AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report, as we continue with
Part 2 of our conversation on wildfires raging
through Southern California, raging towards
the coastal cities on the weekend.
The fires have scorched some 230,000 acres
of land and forced nearly 200,000 people to
evacuate.
At least one woman has died so far.
There are some injuries reported.
The wildfires are already fifth largest on
record in California and the largest ever
recorded in December.
Of the largest 20 wildfires, the last five
have occurred since September.
Climate experts say the intensity of the winter
blazes is linked to climate change.
Authorities have warned residents to stay
inside, those that haven’t evacuated, because
of the dangerous air quality caused by smoke
and carcinogenic ash from the fires.
But a number of farms have stayed open, sparking
concerns farmworkers are laboring in hazardous
conditions without proper equipment.
Last week, volunteers handing out free protective
masks to farmworkers say they were kicked
off some farms, despite the fact the pickers
were asking for the safety equipment.
Well, for more, we are continuing with our
two guests in Southern California.
Via Democracy Now!
video stream, Lucas Zucker joins us from Ventura.
He was evacuated last week due to the fires.
Zucker is policy and communications director
for CAUSE, Central Coast Alliance United for
a Sustainable Economy.
He helped distribute respirator masks to farmworkers
who continued working despite hazardous air
quality conditions.
And by phone, we’re joined by Democratic
California State Assemblymember Monique Limón,
who represents Santa Barbara and Ventura County.
Assemblymember Monique Limón, can you first
talk about the situation where you are, in
Santa Barbara?
What is happening?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: So, the situation
in Santa Barbara and Ventura counties is actually
quite horrific.
We’ve had over 230,000 acres burn, approximately
270 square miles.
So that’s just bigger than the area of Boston,
for example.
And, you know, we’re facing a fire that’s
still burning, only at 10 percent containment.
We’re facing about 95,000 people that, through
this week-long fire, have had to evacuate.
We’re facing 790 structures that have been
damaged or destroyed.
So there is a number of issues that our community
is facing, including the fact that these fires
have caused particularly challenging kind
of air quality concerns for us.
Our air in this particular area has been deemed
bad to hazardous in certain parts of this
county because of the fires.
AMY GOODMAN: Have you been forced to evacuate,
Assemblymember?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: So, I have
not been forced to evacuate, myself.
I do have family members who have been forced
to evacuate.
But I have been in this district.
I represent nearly half a million people in
this particular part of the state of California.
And I have now gone to some of these sites
where we’ve lost hundreds of homes, sites
that have—you know, that have been threatened.
And it’s something that I’ve been working
on every single day, in terms of making sure
that people have resources and know the information.
So this is something that—as someone who
grew up in this area, born and raised in this
area, our area has not seen a fire of this
magnitude.
We’re very accustomed to fires.
Regrettably, we have them, you know, every
year.
But this is something else.
This is a much bigger magnitude than we’ve
ever experienced in this area.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, Bill McKibben tweeted
that of the 20 worst fires in California,
the last five have been since September, this
the only one—and this the fifth largest
at this point in California history, and the
only one in December, scientists linking the
intensity of these fires to climate change.
The significance, state Assemblymember Monique
Limón, of the president of the United States
saying that climate change is a hoax, and
what that means for California?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: Well, I’ll
tell you this.
For I think folks not just in California,
but in other parts of our country, when you
see, you know, six to seven years of drought,
you know, very high temperatures, not enough
rain, you do understand that our contribution
to what we’re doing to our climate, and,
you know, the human contribution, is definitely
having an impact.
You know, this is real.
This is absolutely real.
And again, the conditions, because of the
lack of rain, because of the drought, that
this particular area has been experiencing
are conditions that are absolutely impacting
the area.
Our firefighters and public safety officers
repeat to us, at every single point where
they’re giving our community information,
that the conditions of this particular area
are contributing to a much more intense fire.
And that is real.
AMY GOODMAN: So, let’s talk about what’s
happening to the farmworkers.
And let’s bring in Lucas Zucker, who himself
was evacuated.
He is with CAUSE, Central Coast Alliance United
for a Sustainable Economy.
Can you talk about what you’re doing right
now?
You, yourself, already evacuated.
But in trying to get respirators to farmworkers,
is it true, Lucas Zucker, who are being required
to continue to work, even despite the air
quality?
Talk about what you found.
LUCAS ZUCKER: That’s right.
So, despite the extremely dangerous air quality
right now from the wildfire smoke, there are
thousands of farmworkers still out working
in the fields of our region without N95 protective
masks.
Public health officials recommend people wear
these masks even if they’re just going outside
to walk to the store, let alone do heavy physical
labor for long days in the fields.
And farmworkers are really faced with this
horrible choice between giving up the income
that they desperately need at a time like
this and endangering their health and safety
at work without the proper protective equipment.
And so we’ve had dozens of volunteers going
out every morning to the fields and giving
out masks to farmworkers.
We’ve also been mobilizing in our community
to push Cal/OSHA to take action and really
protect the health and safety of these workers.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain what Cal/OSHA is, the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
in California.
LUCAS ZUCKER: So, Cal/OSHA is the agency tasked
with protecting the health and safety of all
workers in California.
But they had actually closed down their regional
offices after the fires broke out.
And so, we had this really massive public
outcry against that.
We had calls flooding in the Cal/OSHA offices,
and our state legislators really working to
get them open.
It’s just incredible to have thousands of
farmworkers out in the fields in dangerous
conditions working, while Cal/OSHA, the agency
tasked with protecting them, is not working.
AMY GOODMAN: So, what farms have you gone
to where—have you been prevented from handing
these out?
LUCAS ZUCKER: We did have some hostile confrontations.
You know, some farms, we were escorted out,
you know, with a truck driving behind us and,
you know, threats to call the sheriff.
The majority of farms, we have been able to
get masks out.
But there’s been some tense moments with
some of our volunteers who are especially,
you know, high school students as young as
15.
AMY GOODMAN: Who are giving out the masks?
LUCAS ZUCKER: That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: And what happens if a farmworker
says that they do not want to work now, that
they’re afraid?
LUCAS ZUCKER: So, farmworkers do have the
right, especially if there’s two or more,
to ask for the day off in these conditions.
But, ultimately, what we’ve found is, you
know, folks have been going to work.
You know, they’re in a really tough, vulnerable
situation.
And a lot of farmworkers are afraid of their
income, their job, their immigration status.
And so they’re faced with a very difficult
choice here.
AMY GOODMAN: Are the—
LUCAS ZUCKER: And not—often not much choice
at all.
AMY GOODMAN: Are the emergency warnings in
Ventura—are they also written in Spanish?
Does the county write them in English and
Spanish?
LUCAS ZUCKER: No, the vast majority of emergency
information has been only easily accessible
in English for evacuation orders, fire perimeter
safety notices, road closures, emergency shelters.
Actually, the main clearing house of information,
ReadyVenturaCounty.org, has been in English
with—if you scroll way to the bottom, there’s
a little tab that you can use Google Translate,
which, as folks who are bilingual know, this
is basically translation done by bot.
It’s not very helpful.
We asked our Office of Emergency Services
to do translations.
They said they don’t have time to.
They just can’t make live regular updates
in Spanish the way they make regular updates
in English, and Google Translate is the best
that we’re going to get.
So they put a line, kind of an awkwardly translated
line, at the top of the page, kind of explaining
to people how to use Google Translate.
AMY GOODMAN: Earlier this year, farmworkers
in Washington state demanded justice and safe
working conditions after one of their colleagues
fell ill and died after picking berries in
a field near the Canadian border.
The 28-year-old father of three, Honesto Silva
Ibarra, was working for Sarbanand Farms this
summer amidst scorching temperatures and smoke
from nearby wildfires, when he began complaining
of intense headaches.
Silva’s colleagues say supervisors denied
his requests for medical attention, ordered
him to keep working or be fired.
Silva later collapsed while seeking help and
was rushed to a hospital in Seattle, where
he died in August.
At least 70 workers were fired for insubordination
when they organized a one-day work stoppage
to protest Silva’s death and dangerous conditions
in the fields.
Do you know about this, Lucas Zucker?
And do farmworkers along the coast?
Are they aware of these situations?
LUCAS ZUCKER: That’s right.
Incidents like that are definitely forefront
on our minds right now, as we’re working
to ensure the health and safety of farmworkers.
I think that most farmworkers out in the fields
now probably haven’t heard of these incidents
and may not know the severity of the risks
they’re facing.
And that’s why we’re getting out there
to talk to them.
AMY GOODMAN: And can you talk about The Avenue
in Ventura, just what The Avenue is?
LUCAS ZUCKER: That’s right.
The Avenue is Ventura Avenue.
It’s kind of the corridor along Ventura’s
Westside.
It’s kind of a densely populated, narrow
community surrounded by steep hillsides on
both sides.
The wall of fire kind of climbed down and
just barely was stopped before hitting apartment
buildings.
This is a community of about 13,000 people,
about 70 percent Latino.
It was a community under mandatory evacuation
orders for five days, with dangerous air quality,
you know, just had clean, safe drinking water
restored.
But the vast majority of residents were actually
still living there, either never left or,
you know, returned home after leaving immediately
that first night.
So we’ve been working to get out, get out
air masks, as well, there.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Assemblymember Monique Limón,
as you listen to this description of what’s
happening on the farms in Southern California
amidst these horrific wildfires, these historic
fires in California, can you talk about what
you’re doing, first around the farmworkers’
safety and then in general?
Are you talking to the farmworkers, talking
to the growers?
What agreements are being made now?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: Right.
So, actually, we played a role in contacting
Cal/OSHA and making sure that Cal/OSHA was
available, but not only available to those
in the community to ask, you know, in terms
of questions about safety and working conditions,
but that they were in a position to also make
sure to properly inform and advise those particular
farms.
And so, Cal/OSHA, the agriculture commissioner,
as well as the Growers Association, the berries
association, were all contacted by our office,
in terms of saying, “It’s really important
for us to make sure that those on the ground
have the correct information about worker
safety.”
And, you know, there was—I think on the
first day, there were some farms that actually
let their farmworkers go; the second day,
were still working on making sure that people
have, you know, masks, the appropriate N95
mask, if they are outside working.
I think one of the things that Lucas alluded
to is the challenge of, you know, the need
for income.
And this is going to be a continued kind of
conversation about what happens when your
need for income is such that you are now in
a position to really not feel like you have
an option, even though the law says you have
an option.
And that’s particularly difficult.
So, on that front, I think that there’s
been multiple legislators who have had this
conversation.
I know that, you know, when the locals kind
of got a hold of this, there was a lot of
questions being asked.
So, among the multitude of complications and
challenges and emergencies that we’re having
in this particular area related to the fire,
that is definitely, you know, something that’s
very important to us.
You know, on the bigger issue, in terms of
the fire and what our office is doing, as
someone who represents this particular area
in the state, our office continues to try
to get this information to folks.
And I will say to anyone who goes to any of
the information that I released, you know,
we’ve done our best—as someone, you know,
who was born in this country but who’s been
bilingual my entire life—to get information
out in both Spanish and English, which are
the two languages, predominantly—not the
only ones, but predominantly—spoken in this
particular area of California.
And so, we’ve been, you know, making sure
we’ve been talking to folks.
You know, there’s been times where we’ve
been at a press conference and I’ve been
the only one to say something in Spanish.
But it’s an issue we’re not—we’re
not dropping this issue, in terms of getting
information out to the community in ways that
they can actually interpret and make the best
decisions in terms of what they’re going
to do.
So this is something that, again, this fire
has presented a number of challenges, emergencies,
imperfections, things that have not gone as
we would have liked them to go—right?—not
the script that we would have like them.
But we don’t drop them.
We address them.
And we make sure that as we move forward in
the Legislature, we are considering, you know,
all of these things and making sure that it’s—you
know, I think our governor said it well, in
this week, in terms of when he came out to
visit the area.
He said that this is really the new norm for
California.
So, if this is the new norm for California,
to have these wildfires, then we must make
sure that that norm changes, for our entire
community.
AMY GOODMAN: What about people who are concerned
about evacuating because they’re concerned
they could—if they went into a shelter,
they would be picked up by ICE, or they would
be picked up by authorities?
When we were in Santa Rosa, in the fires in
Northern California, people were afraid to
leave their homes.
Some people were fleeing to the ocean.
What are you telling people?
And what is ICE doing right now around these
issues?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: So, this is
actually something that’s come up in the
community already.
And so, we’re working with the Red Cross,
with the volunteers, with everyone involved,
to make sure that they get the right information
out, and in saying—you know, and that information
is that anyone can come to the shelter.
You don’t need to provide a driver’s license
or proof of anything else.
And this is something that actually impacts
all communities.
There’s people who left their home without
being able to grab their, you know, belongings
and information.
So it’s really important for us to make
sure that they know that the evacuation center
is a safe place for them.
We’ve also seen that the Mexican Consulate
has been visiting all of these evacuation
centers, with the hope to provide information,
resources, but also bilingual translation,
in cases that’s needed.
I know that I’ve run into officials working
in the Mexican Consulate.
And while the Mexican Consulate is here to,
you know, help Mexican nationals, that has
not been the case.
They have helped anyone who has needed Spanish
and bilingual translation, citizens included.
And so I think that that’s something that’s
really important.
But it is something that we have heard.
It’s something that we know is a real threat,
in terms of a fear that people have in the
community and reasons why they may not want
to go to a shelter.
So we’re really trying to ensure that that
information gets out to our community as a
whole.
AMY GOODMAN: So, in these Red Cross shelters
and other shelters, they are not allowed to
ask for ID?
Could you continue with that in English?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: OK.
In these—no, in these evacuation centers,
they do not ask for IDs.
And so, this is information we have verified,
that they do not ask for this information,
and this is not information that they need.
They just need kind of a name and last name
to know who’s there.
They need a count, of course.
But they don’t need to have that information
to be able to access emergency shelters.
AMY GOODMAN: And what about this issue that
Lucas Zucker has raised of the lack of Spanish
translation of the warnings and the advisories
being translated into Spanish on the government
websites?
What is being done right now to fix that?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: Right.
So, you know, the app was immediately like
get something up there in Spanish and English.
We also have a statewide system.
It’s called the Nixle text system, which
does give people the ability to opt into a
Spanish text message.
And so, you know, the conversation continues.
I know that I sat in a meeting yesterday for
Santa Barbara County, and the congressmember
and I brought forward this same particular
issue: What’s being done to get this information
in Spanish?
I think we’re going to have to have continued
conversations about what we do long term.
In the immediate, because the need is such,
I have to tell you that anyone who speaks
Spanish, including myself, is doing everything
possible to get that information in Spanish
to folks.
That’s the immediate, short-term like I
need to get someone information.
But the long term is, we’re going to have
to really set some state policies and standards
about how we get information out, particularly
in areas where we know we have, you know,
a large number of people who speak a different
language.
And that’s going to be very important.
And it’s important for the whole community.
Safety is an important thing.
For everyone to be informed about what the
practice, the evacuation plan is, how they
should think about these issues, it really
makes the community as a whole.
I mean, we saw this in the evacuation process
in the city of Ventura.
You had so many people evacuating at that
same time.
So, to make sure that everyone has that information
is key.
It’s key to the safety of the whole entire
community.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, Assemblymember Monique
Limón, how has Driscoll’s, the world’s
largest berry distributor, responded to the
wildfires and to the farmworkers who work
in the area?
ASSEMBLYMEMBER MONIQUE LIMÓN: So, they—you
know, once they were informed, they immediately,
actually, put out a statement about, you know,
the whole condition.
And they—you know, in their statement, they
acknowledged that they were going to be taking
next steps in terms of those folks, I think,
of working with the farmworkers and safety.
Like I said, initially, that first day when
it came out, they let folks go home, once
kind of the situation was elevated to a lot
of different agencies, and folks—folks went
home.
And so, it is our hope that Driscoll’s and,
you know, other berry growers will continue
to really see what we do in the long term,
when we have folks who, you know, are very
much impacted by what is happening when their
work is outside.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you both
for being with us, Assemblymember Monique
Limón of Santa Barbara and Ventura, and Lucas
Zucker, with the Central Coast Alliance United
for a Sustainable Economy, or CAUSE.
You can also go to our website to hear our
conversation in Spanish about this dire situation,
at this point the fifth-worst wildfire in
California’s history.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman.
