AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
In Colombia, the right-wing politician Iván
Duque has been sworn in as Colombia’s new
president.
Duque was handpicked by former right-wing
President Álvaro Uribe and has vowed to roll
back key parts of Colombia’s landmark peace
deal with FARC rebels.
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki
Haley met with Duque ahead of his inauguration
Tuesday to discuss U.S.-Colombia relations
and the U.S.-backed drug war in Latin America.
Duque also opposes drug legalization.
Protesters gathered across Colombia to protest
his inauguration and to demand an end to the
wave of assassinations of human rights leaders.
Just before Duque’s inauguration, I spoke
to Gustavo Petro.
He placed second in this year’s presidential
race, receiving eight million votes.
That would have been the largest number of
votes ever received by a leftist candidate
for Colombia’s presidency.
In the 1980s, Gustavo Petro was jailed and
tortured for being a member of the M-19 guerrilla
movement.
He later went on to lead efforts in Colombia’s
Congress to investigate ties between paramilitary
death squads and top politicians.
Petro is the former mayor of Bogotá and has
just rejoined the Colombian Senate.
I began by asking Gustavo Petro in Bogotá
about the news from Venezuela, Colombia’s
neighbor to the east.
On Saturday, Venezuelan president Nicolás
Maduro was uninjured in an apparent assassination
attempt when drones loaded with explosives
detonated above his head as he gave a nationally
televised speech.
Maduro blamed right-wing opponents and the
Colombian government for the attack.
It is the first drone attack, attempted assassination,
on a sitting head of state.
I asked Gustavo Petro for his response to
what happened.
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] In general, I
believe that governments try to resolve their
own internal conflicts, often time their inabilities,
by blaming it on external actions or foreign
actions.
And even though there is no question about
it that there is external action, that no
government operates absolutely independent
of international contexts and interests and
forces that are outside of a given society,
what is true is that a government does not
do very well by delegating blame for any event
on those outside forces.
There is always an internal situation that
makes possible different actions.
I believe that President Maduro has to examine
in depth the internal situation of the country.
There is an absence of a real dialogue.
There is an absence of a clear program for
a transition to a productive economy given
that Venezuela can no longer live off of oil,
and these plans are not seen either in the
opposition or in the government.
A philosopher by the name of Gramsci called
this a long time ago an integral crisis.
The problem is not with Santos; it has to
do with the integral crisis that Venezuelan
society is experiencing.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about what is happening
today in Colombia, the inauguration of Iván
Duque, your opponent, the man you ran against
for president in Colombia, the significance
of his victory?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] Today is a day
of many questions in Colombia, alongside the
inauguration of the new 
president whose campaign was a sort of anthem
or hymn to President Uribe, who represents
the far right-wing forces in Colombia and
who is being judged and investigated for his
ties to the paramilitary groups, which resulted
in a genocide in Colombia.
At the same time in hundreds of communities
and cities around Colombia, in their plazas
and in more than 40 cities worldwide, there
are demonstrations today that are shouting
out to the new government, telling it that
decisions need to be made about life, about
peace and about justice in Colombia.
About life because they have assassinated
more than 330 grassroots leaders.
In recent months, they have threatened thousands
of opposition political activists.
In terms of peace, because during the campaign,
the current president, the new president,
announced that he would destroy essential
aspects of the peace agreement reached by
President Santos and the FARC guerrilla movement.
And justice because Former President Uribe
has been called to give testimony in a judicial
proceeding for having bribed witnesses in
an effort to hide his own ties to the paramilitary
groups and he has unleashed from the Senate,
where he is a senator, a campaign to discredit
the Supreme Court, a campaign that he had
already waged when he was president.
Indeed, he illegally wiretapped the communications
of the justices of the Supreme Court, the
highest court in Colombia.
AMY GOODMAN: Gustavo Petro, can you talk about
Iván Duque’s relationship with Uribe, how
far back it goes, what they worked on together
and what you are most concerned about, especially
for an audience not from inside Colombia,
but outside who may not be as familiar with
Colombian politics?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] Well, very few
of us know Duque; I don’t know him, either.
He was really an unknown figure until four
or five months ago.
It is the power of Uribe’s leadership over
a part of the right-wing of Colombian society
that has allowed Duque to become president.
Before being a senator, without popular election,
Duque was living in Washington where he organized
concerts to entertain the staff of the Inter-American
Development Bank.
Not much more about him is known.
What we do know is the discourse that has
brought him to the presidency, which is exactly
the same as the discourse of former President
Álvaro Uribe.
And it is in this connection that there are
concerns and fears.
This is what led eight million people to vote
for me in the effort to win the office of
president of Colombia.
There is fear that the little bit of peace
and democracy that has been constructed in
Colombia would be destroyed, of public liberties,
of judicial independence and respect for differences.
If you examine, for example, the resume of
the person who is going to be the representative
of Colombia before the Organization of American
States, Mr. Alejandro Ordóñez, you will
find the resume of a person who is an anti-Semite,
who is a homophobe and who acts on that and
whose ideology is fascist.
He is the one who is going to be representing
us at the Organization of American States.
If you analyze a bit the latest speeches of
the person who today becomes the president
of Colombia regarding anti-drug policy, you
will find one very worrisome fact, which you
have already noted in your own investigations:
Colombia is one of the most violent countries
in the world.
It is one of the most socially unequal countries
on earth, the most unequal country in Latin
America.
And those have been the causes of the rise
of a very powerful drug trafficking interest
around cocaine.
The construction of a policy that was born
in Washington of military confrontation and
the repressive approach to put down drug trafficking
has made Colombia this violent country and
has turned a large part of the geography of
the Americas, including several cities of
the United States, among the 50 most violent
cities in the world.
The crisis is paid for in Colombia in the
form of hundreds of thousands of deaths, the
destruction of Colombia’s democracy, as
is happening in Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras,
in Central America, in Venezuela, in Brazil,
in Ecuador.
But the price is also paid in the United States,
with the new statistic of deaths from overdoses
from drugs that are much more harmful than
cocaine, more than 60,000 deaths.
So this is the balance sheet of a failure.
Mexico is moving towards a progressive policy
regarding drugs, to stop confronting the drug
problem from a military and repressive angle
and to build a social path to emerge from
the drug problem.
Colombia has taken steps in that direction.
When I was mayor of Bogotá, we took correct
steps showing—and the statistics showed
that the new strategy was working.
President Uribe has announced once again fumigation,
jailing drug users, stepping up the military
and repressive policy, following the advice
of President Trump, and that path could lead
our society to even greater violence.
Today, we have new actors in the violence.
It is not the FARC guerrillas who have disarmed.
It is not the insurgent guerrillas of the
time of the Cold War.
It is no longer the paramilitary leaders who
were extradited to the United States not to
be judged for the genocide they carried out
in Colombia, but merely for drug trafficking.
But there is an Americas-wide strategy directed
by the cartels with roots in the United States,
Mexico, Central America and Ecuador trying
to capture the production of coca leaf and
cocaine in Colombia that could lead to even
greater violence than we have experienced
to date.
Duque doesn’t appear to realize this, and
in that ignorance or lack of knowledge, trying
to construct a FARC in arms that does not
exist today as a way of maintaining political
power of Colombian society, they may—imitating
Trump’s policy, they may condemn Colombia
to new era of violence.
And that is the danger we are talking about.
That is why there has been a growth in the
assassination of grassroots leaders; it has
been 330 in the last months.
That is why the threats against the judicial
system.
And for this reason there is an internal struggle
within the Army and within the police to try
to vet those forces, trying to clear out those
who are allies of the peace process and trying
to lead into the top positions the hard-line
hawks who might lead Colombia to a new dirty
war.
AMY GOODMAN: Colombian Senator Gustavo Petro.
He placed second in this year’s presidential
election in Colombia.
We will be back with him in Bogotá in a moment.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we return to my interview
with Colombian senator Gustavo Petro.
He placed second in this year’s presidential
race in Colombia, receiving eight million
votes, more than any left presidential candidate
in Colombia’s history.
The inauguration took place on Tuesday, when
we spoke to Gustavo Petro—the inauguration
of Colombia’s new right-wing President Iván
Duque.
Your own aide, Ana María Cortés, was also
assassinated in the last weeks of the campaign.
Can you talk about her?
Do you think this was a message to you?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] Not only was one
of our activists assassinated, several of
the activists of Colombia Humana were assassinated.
In just one province, Cesar, one of more than
30 of the administrative regions of Colombia,
72 activists from our movement have been assassinated.
And my brother just received a death threat
at his home.
My communications with the Office of the Prosecutor
have been intercepted for the last year and
a half.
My family is in exile.
There are millions of Colombians who are fearful
today, who are afraid.
That is why we are calling them into the streets.
Because in the public plaza, one can overcome
fear and at least not allow oneself to become
paralyzed.
But that is the reality today in Colombia,
and that is what the new president Iván Duque
will have to answer to.
AMY GOODMAN: While you lost, Gustavo Petro,
you also made history with eight million votes
to Duque’s 10 million.
You garnered more votes than any left politician
in Colombian history.
Can you talk about your vision for Colombia
and why you think that vision did not succeed
in ultimately winning?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] I no longer divide
politics into left and right.
I think that was a relatively logical way
and a relatively realistic way to describe
politics in the 20th century, but today, politics
is divided between the politics of life and
the politics of death.
Climate change worldwide separates us into
two major sides.
On the one hand, you have Trump, Maduro, Duque,
and on the other side, you have those of us
who want to respond and adapt as quickly as
possible to climate change by bringing about
changes in Colombian society and Colombian
politics.
It’s life or death.
What we were preaching in Colombia is that;
we need to build the movement of life from
the standpoint of respect for nature, from
the standpoint of moving from an extractive-based
coal exporting economy.
We are the fifth leading coal exporter in
the world.
That is to say we have a lot of responsibility
for climate change, and we want to move to
a productive economy in agriculture and industry
based on knowledge, so as to be able to live
together with nature.
We want to move to a zero carbon economy.
These are the kinds of proposals that we put
forward as the main agenda in our election
campaign.
That is what we want.
AMY GOODMAN: It’s very interesting that
you put together Trump, Duque, and Maduro.
Maduro of Venezuela.
I wanted to go back to this issue of the assassination
attempt.
On Sunday, Bolivian president Evo Morales
tweeted, “Within the last 12 months, US
Vicepresident Mike Pence made 3 trips to Latin
America to meet at least 8 presidents from
whom he demanded support for military intervention
against our brother president of Venezuela
Nicolás Maduro.
Those are the Empire’s coup attempts.”
Do you feel the U.S. was involved in some
way in what looks like an assassination attempt
on Maduro’s life?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] I reject any type
of violence for resolving social conflicts
in Latin America.
I believe that we have experienced 30 years
of revolutionary wars in Central America,
in Colombia.
I myself was a protagonist of that effort
as a member of the M-19 movement, which laid
down its weapons in 1989, and then it became
a majority through popular vote and played
a very important role in the 1991 Constitution
of Colombia, a profoundly democratic Constitution.
We experienced years of military dictatorships,
exile.
The word “democracy” practically vanished
from Latin America.
It was really just at the beginning of the
21st century that a sort of spring began with
progressive, popular electoral victories,
and we began to see new paths emerging.
We cannot go back to the past—the dictatorships
that exist, for example, in Brazil, as I believe
exist in Venezuela and a threat thereof, in
Nicaragua and Honduras, a threat of this in
Colombia, nor can we go back to the revolutionary
wars trying to resolve conflicts through violence.
I think we need to preserve and persevere
along the nonviolent paths in order to work
out our own conflicts.
That does not mean that there’s not a violent
attack against Maduro.
That doesn’t mean that there are not interests
who would like to see Venezuelan society collapse.
But the same interests who brought about the
collapse of the society of Libya, Iraq, Syria—behind
that there is a dark and dirty game all around
oil interests and the world oil market.
I know that the collapse of Venezuela would
immediately mean the collapse of Colombia
because millions of Colombians who in years
past went into economic exile in Venezuela
would come back.
And as Pope Francis says, these kinds of exoduses
just create new situations of slavery and
violence.
I know that there is also a tough, hard-line,
racist, xenophobic, imperialistic sector in
U.S. society who, with their allies in Europe,
believe they can dominate the world and accommodate
the different visions of hundreds of human
cultures into their exclusive way of thinking
and acting, but I am totally convinced that
it’s the peoples themselves who transform
society.
The issue that I have raised of climate change—well,
I propose to the Colombians and to Colombia
that this should be the fundamental line of
our international policy, and based on that,
we should determine who are our allies and
who are on the other side.
Together in a single political party, speaking
in general, global terms, someone like Maduro
and someone like Trump are together because
the progressive wave in Latin America that
began in the early 20th century consolidated
its role by greater income distribution, the
genuine desire to reduce inequality in the
most unequal region of the world based on
the rents that were generated by the rise
in international oil prices as well as coal
and gas prices.
It is an unsustainable way forward which is
being shown in Venezuela, and the governments
of Ecuador and Bolivia and in part Brazil
followed that same path.
I think that this has brought about a crisis,
violating their own democratic principles.
We see this in Venezuela and we now see it
in Nicaragua.
A new progressivism is emerging.
Graphically speaking, we could say there is
a new axis between Mexico, Bogotá and São
Paulo.
Now an important force has won the presidency
of Mexico.
We almost did the same thing in Colombia with
eight million votes and it may happen in Brazil
if the current dictatorship there allows it.
That new axis should propose for Latin America
a new role in the international order.
Reject being assigned, being mere exporters
of raw materials, of fossil fuel raw materials.
That alone would bring an end to Colombia.
And we need to have a new role.
Production based on knowledge.
Production without carbon.
A decarbonized production, and therefore,
a new democracy.
This is what we propose to the world.
And this new progressive axis would have very
powerful allies, humankind itself, and would
display its moral and political superiority,
its superiority of arguments based on science.
That I believe is what we are now building
in Colombia and in Latin America.
That is the way forward that we are going
to be trying to insist on in coming months
and coming years.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re speaking to now-Senator
Gustavo Petro.
He ran for president of Colombia, got more
votes than any previous opposition left-leaning
presidential candidate in Colombian history.
Nikki Haley, the U.S. Ambassador to Colombia,
is leading the delegation for Iván Duque’s
inauguration as we speak.
Ambassador Haley wrote in the Miami Herald,
“The United States stands unequivocally
with the people of Venezuela and Nicaragua
against their corrupt governments.
Colombia presents a model for their democratic
aspirations.
We look forward to working with the new government
in Bogotá to ensure that the freedom model
endures for all of the Americas.”
The Washington Post quotes one unnamed U.S.
official saying “Now Colombia will have
the most pro-U.S. president in all of Latin
America.”
Your thoughts?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] I think that all
of the Colombian presidents have been the
most pro-U.S. presidents of Latin America,
whatever U.S. policy has been, back to the
1950s.
Colombia was one of the few countries that
joined the United States in the Korean War.
The same brigade that was in Korea came back
to kill insurgents in Colombia, giving rise
to the FARC.
That was at the orders of the president at
the time who had made speeches favorable to
Hitler and Mussolini.
They had been defeated in the Second World
War, so before having a sort of—rather than
facing some sort of Nuremberg trial, they
decided to become the chief allies of the
United States so long as they would not be
tried for genocide.
And that has been history of the presidents
of Colombia.
The current conduct of incoming president
Duque has been traditional.
But the ambassador of the United States to
the United Nations makes a mistake when she
talks about Colombia.
First of all, she does not recall the analysis
and statements of her own ambassador a few
years back, Myles Frechette, who said publicly
that Uribe’s government was a government
that was an ally of the drug trafficking interests,
and that the Uribe government made peace with
the paramilitary groups, and rather than having
them become subjected to justice, instead
it was really the consolidation of an alliance
with drug traffickers.
And the representative coming to—the one
who becomes—she says that here we have liberty,
the liberty one would like to see throughout
Latin America.
No, I’m sorry, Ambassador.
They have killed 330 leaders in recent months.
I don’t think that that is the liberty that
the United States wants for Latin America.
That is not freedom.
I myself am threatened.
Is that the freedom that the United States
would like to see?
But getting into a specific and fundamental
issue as presidential candidate, I had a dialogue
with the current ambassador of the United
States.
And if the United States really wants to stop
the exodus from Latin America to the United
States, if it really wants a serious relationship
based on friendship, it has to begin by changing
its own drug policy.
The anti-drug policy of the United States
government has found its highest expression
in military struggle and repression that is
directed against drug users and against the
peasants who produce coca leaf, and this is
now making all of Latin America bleed.
It is leading to the violent death of Latin
American society.
But at the same time, it is leading to the
death through overdose by not mitigating damages
by a more scientific-based policy in the U.S.
society itself.
I would invite the ambassador of the United
States to the U.N., now that she is coming
to Bogotá, to re-examine with scientists
and objectively a drug policy that has been
profoundly criminal and ineffective throughout
the Americas.
AMY GOODMAN: Gustavo Petro, you said your
own life is threatened.
Have you received death threats?
GUSTAVO PETRO: [translated] Yes.
The last one I received was two weeks ago.
There was a pamphlet circulating against the
main opposition leaders in Colombia by a group
called the Black Eagles.
They have threatened thousands of people throughout
Colombia in the last couple of months.
The grotesque content of these death threats,
well, they always say that we should not be
the opposition to Duque.
Not a single member of the Black Eagles is
in prison.
There has never been any combat.
There is no record of the real existence of
an organization independent of the state called
the Black Eagles.
They carry out threats from the far north
in the Guajira Peninsula to the far south
of Colombia, Leticia, in the Amazon.
There is no organization that has such a capacity
to cover all of Colombia’s geography other
than the state.
The threats are actually made by public officials,
officials of the Colombian state who create
internal, clandestine groups, and those who
are at the command are struggling to become
the top commanders of the police, the Army,
and the intelligence bodies in the new Duque
administration.
That is what the Águilas Negras or Black
Eagles are.
Those are the ones who have been carrying
out most of these threats.
AMY GOODMAN: Colombian Senator Gustavo Petro.
He placed second in this year’s presidential
race, receiving eight million votes, more
than any left presidential candidate in Colombia’s
history.
I spoke with him in Bogotá on Tuesday just
before he left for the inauguration of Colombia’s
new right-wing President Iván Duque.
We will play the second half of the interview
next week on Democracy Now!
Special thanks to Charlie Roberts.
When we come back, the Media Enabled Musketeers,
a group of American and Russian filmmakers
with disabilities collaborating on telling
their own stories.
Stay with us.
