AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show with an update on
the more than 2,300 children separated from
their families at the U.S.-Mexico border after
their parents were charged with illegal entry
under the Trump administration’s ongoing
“zero tolerance” policy.
The U.S. military is preparing to house up
to 20,000 immigrant children on military bases
in Texas and Arkansas.
A Pentagon spokesperson said the bases would
house “unaccompanied alien children.”
But other reports suggest the bases might
be used to indefinitely hold entire families,
following President Trump’s executive order
ending the separation of children from their
parents at the border.
This comes as the Justice Department has asked
a federal court permission to alter a settlement
that limits family detention to 20 days.
The former head of the Office of Refugee Resettlement
under President Obama, Bob Carey, has sharply
criticized the Trump administration.
Bob Carey said, quote, “This is child abuse
being perpetrated by a government.”
On Thursday, a senior Trump administration
official told the Associated Press that 500
children have been reunited with their family
within days of being separated.
He was an unnamed official.
Meanwhile, other parents say they still don’t
know where their children are.
Trump spoke to reporters about family reunification
on Thursday.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I signed a very good
executive order yesterday, but that’s only
limited.
No matter how you cut it, it leads to separation
ultimately.
I’m directing HHS, DHS, and DOJ to work
together to keep illegal immigrant families
together during the immigration process and
to reunite these previously separated groups.
AMY GOODMAN: On Thursday, first lady Melania
Trump made an unannounced trip to a detention
center for immigrant children in Texas.
As she left Washington and came back, she
was wearing a jacket that read, scrawled across
the back of the jacket, “I really don’t
care, do u?”
She spoke to reporters after her visit.
MELANIA TRUMP: –begin to recognize each
of you and thanking you for all what you do,
for your heroic work that you do every day
and what you do for those children.
We all know they are having—they’re here
without their families.
And I also would like to ask you how I can
help to these children to reunite with their
families as quickly as possible.
AMY GOODMAN: When she asked how the children
were doing, one of the workers at the facility
said that they are traumatized.
Meanwhile, mayors of about 20 U.S. cities
gathered at a holding facility for immigrant
children in the border city of El Paso, and
accused Trump of failing to address the crisis.
Back in Washington, a hard-right immigration
bill failed to pass the House, and Republican
leaders delayed a planned vote on a compromise
bill that would offer Dreamers a pathway to
citizenship and includes $25 billion for Trump’s
border wall.
Around the country, protests continued against
Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy.
In New York, dozens of parents and babies
took over the offices of the field office
of director for ICE Enforcement and Removal
Operations.
Children sang together and drew on paper hearts
to leave behind in support of the more than
2,300 children taken from their parents.
This is one of the kids, speaking through
tears.
CHILD: The children that are being kept in
cages have no clue what is going on.
The least you could do is tell the parents
that they will see their kids.
They are probably wasting away in worry.
They love their kids and they want to know
it will be OK.
We were a safe haven to those in need, but
we are no more.
I hope that you will be here, take peaceful
action and love the least of these.
AMY GOODMAN: Also here in New York, an immigrant
mother from Guatemala who fears deportation
went into physical sanctuary in a church in
New York City on Thursday.
Debora Berenice Vasquez said she was told
to leave the country in May during a routine
check-in with federal officials at ICE and
fears separation from her 10-year old son
Kenner, a U.S. citizen.
DEBORA BERENICE VASQUEZ: I understand now
what the mothers are feeling that are being
separated from their children.
And it’s important that we remember that
this is not only happening on the border,
but it is also happening in New York, and
in cities and states across the country.
AMY GOODMAN: As concerns grow about poor coordination
between Customs and Border Patrol, which takes
the children, and the Office of Refugee Resettlement,
which puts them into shelters and foster care,
The Intercept has a new report on one of the
first reunifications.
Reporter Debbie Nathan spoke to a Guatemalan
woman whose five-year-old son was taken from
her last month by immigration authorities
in Texas after she sought asylum.
She has been reunited with him after 38 days
in detention.
This is a clip from The Intercept’s video
when we hear the mother, Delia, who uses a
pseudonym, describe what happened.
We will hear that clip after this break.
[MUSIC BREAK]
AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman.
As concerns grow about poor coordination between
Customs and Border Patrol, which takes the
children, the Office of Refugee Resettlement,
which puts them into shelters and foster care,
The Intercept has a new report on one of the
first reunifications.
Reporter Debbie Nathan spoke to a Guatemalan
woman whose five-year-old son was taken from
her last month by immigration authorities
in Texas after she sought asylum.
She has been reunited with him after 38 days
in detention.
This is a clip from The Intercept’s video,
when we hear the mother, Delia, who uses a
pseudonym, describing what happened.
DELIA: They tricked me.
They told me we should go to the bus, that
we were leaving.
I was happy I was going to be with my son.
When I sat down on the bus, my boy and I were
both crying.
Then they said, “Ma’am, get off.”
I thought I was going to get out on Monday
or Tuesday, but then they said, “Clean your
bed because you’re going today, right now.”
I was so excited.
I was jumping up and down with happiness,
and all my compañeras when I left clapped
with happiness that I was going to see my
son.
Because they saw how, night and day, I’d
been crying, wanting to be with my son.
Oh, I’m so happy because I have my son.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we’re joined by Debbie
Nathan, independent journalist based in Brownsville,
Texas, on the Mexico border.
She reports for The Intercept.
Her latest piece, AN ABUSED WOMAN CAME TO
THE U.S. SEEKING ASYLUM.
THE GOVERNMENT TOOK HER 5-YEAR-OLD SON.
THIS IS HOW SHE GOT HIM BACK.
Debbie, welcome back to Democracy Now!.
Can you describe just that?
How did—well, the woman who is going by
the name “Delia”—get her little boy
back?
DEBBIE NATHAN: Well, it just took an incredible
amount of resources and it was really happenstance.
What happened was I had located this woman
and started investigating her case back in
early May.
And then as I continued the reporting, I contacted
organizations and lawyers to get more information
about how the process worked or doesn’t
work.
And in the course of that reporting, a lawyer
said that she would go visit Delia in detention.
And she went and did that, and decided to
take her case.
So now she had a pro bono lawyer which is
something that most people in this situation
don’t have at this point.
And this lawyer is a very good immigration
lawyer and guided or prepared Delia to do
a credible fear hearing, which she had, and
it was very successful and she passed her
credible fear test.
So then the lawyer went to all kinds of—worked
really hard to arrange with the agency that
had managed the case of the little boy who
probably had him in foster care.
I’m not quite sure where he was.
But so she did paperwork, and as soon as Delia
got out of detention, she and her husband—the
lawyer and her husband—drove her down to
get her little boy.
So it was a lot of work that took place outside
of the government system, of whatever the
government says it’s going to be doing or
has done.
This all took place outside and it was a really
wonderful thing, but it was very exceptional.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about that.
How exceptional is it?
The government has just floated through an
unnamed official that 500 parents have been
reunited with their children.
You would think if that were the case, that
they would not put this through an unnamed
official.
Usually, you do that when you don’t want
to trace back a lie to someone.
What is your sense in Brownsville of what
is happening?
DEBBIE NATHAN: Well, I haven’t heard about
people being reunited en masse.
In fact, the lawyers and sort of this loose
coalition of people in Texas that have been
trying to find these people and go in and
interview them in detention centers and try
to give them representation—the case that
I reported on is the first one that they know
of where somebody was actually reunited.
So I’m not really sure what that means.
It is certainly not something that we hear
about in Brownsville, which is the thick of
the situation.
Most people who have been separated have been
in this area.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to talk about the director
of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, Scott
Lloyd.
ORR, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, is
the agency tasked with caring for the thousands
of children who have been forcibly taken from
their parents.
According to a Politico article headlined
Meet the anti-abortion Trump appointee taking
care of separated kids, they write, “Prior
to assuming leadership at ORR, Lloyd cofounded
the WitnessWorks Foundation for a Culture
of Life—an organization dedicated to Catholic
teachings and 'guided by the principles of
our faith'—and worked for years in its legal
arm.
At the Knights of Columbus, he described himself
on his resume as the 'architect of late-term
abortion restrictions' passed by six states,
while writing articles about banning 'dismemberment
abortion'…”—as he put it–”…and
'Big Abortion's evolving profit structure.
Lloyd also served in the George W. Bush administration
as an attorney at HHS…”— Health and
Human Services—”…cowriting the 2008
conscience rule allowing medical providers
to refuse contraceptives, abortions and other
care on moral grounds.”
That’s the piece in Politico describing
the man who is in charge of what will happen
to these thousands of children taken from
their parents.
It doesn’t sound like he has much experience
with refugees, Debbie Nathan.
DEBBIE NATHAN: That’s right.
And in shelters that house young teenage minors—girls,
females—there have been several cases where
they have come up pregnant and they have wanted
abortions and they have gone through judicial
bypass in Texas so that they have been given
permission in Texas to get an abortion, but
he will not allow them to get abortions.
So he has abrogated their legal right in the
United States to—their legal abortion rights.
So that seems to be his primary…
AMY GOODMAN: He personally went down to Texas
to try to prevent an immigrant woman from
getting an abortion.
Is that right?
DEBBIE NATHAN: Well, yes, but not only that,
there are records where it is clear that he
has intervened even without being in Texas.
AMY GOODMAN: I also want to turn now to New
York Congressmember Kathleen Rice.
Now, apparently New York has something like
700 of these separated children.
They have been flown up to New York.
She appeared on Wolf Blitzer’s show on CNN.
She was asked by Blitzer if she believed the
children separated from their parents will
eventually be reunited with their families.
REP.
KATHLEEN RICE: I don’t see how it could
possibly happen.
And to be frank, the administration has basically
admitted that, that there is no way that they
can reunify these children with their parents.
They didn’t take any information at the
time that they took them from them.
A lot of these kids barely even know their
own names, don’t speak English.
So this reunification process is going to
be next to impossible, it seems to me.
Which I hope people really understand that.
There are 2,300 children who may never see
their parents again.
Ever.
And that’s on us, this country, the United
States of America.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s New York Congressmember
Kathleen Rice.
Debbie Nathan, can you respond?
DEBBIE NATHAN: Yeah, well, I think essentially
what has happened is that there is going to
be an outsourcing.
It has already happened.
For example, RAICES, which is a group that
has been involved in advocating for unaccompanied
minors, now just suddenly within a few days
collected almost $20 million, just from the
public, from people out there in the community
all over the country and probably the world.
And so they and other groups and lawyers I
think have come together outside of the government,
and they will be going in and trying to locate
parents in detention, and they will be trying
to do this work—exactly what Virginia Raymond,
the lawyer who took Delia’s case, did.
There are just hundreds of people that are
getting ready to do this, that are already
doing it.
And I think that’s how much of this will
happen.
So it will be sort of this privatized outsourced
reunification effort going on already, very
heroic.
I don’t think that 2,300 children are never
going to see their parents again.
I think it will take a long time.It is not
systematic.
But as I said, I don’t think the government
is going to be the entity responsible for
these reunifications, generally speaking.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re also joined by Clara
Long, senior researcher at Human Rights Watch.
If you can weigh in here, around the situation
of these separated children?
CLARA LONG: Yeah.
The agency that is doing these separations,
Customs and Border Protection and Border Patrol,
has a history of haphazard recording of the
identity of especially tender age children.
So one of the huge challenges that I see coming
up is that children have been separated, placed
in these ORR facilities, who are not young
[sic] enough to know their parents’ names
or to know details of their parents, and that
that information has not been recorded by
officials.
The other huge challenge I think, that Debbie
is pointing to and that is important to recognize,
is that these adults are being held in immigration
detention centers that have very low rates
of legal representation.
Over 200 facilities around the country–most
people don’t have access to a lawyer.
So the idea—and it is wonderful that people
are supporting legal representation in immigration
detention.
That’s incredibly important, because we
need thousands of Virginia Raymonds to go
in and represent these parents and fight that
fight.
AMY GOODMAN: And you have President Trump
now talking about–”We’re are not bringing
in thousands of judges,” he said.
CLARA LONG: Right, which again completely
clogs up the system, keeps these parents stuck
in limbo without a decision on their cases.
If I may, Amy, one of the things that pops
up again and is actually a huge stain on President
Obama’s human rights record is long-term
prolonged family detention, something we saw
develop—I know that you guys covered after
2014.
In 2015, I remember I went into a family detention
center and spoke with families who had been
detained for a year or more.
They said they were feeling—had suicidal
feelings, anxiety, depression.
Family detention is very harmful.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain this, though?
When you’re talking about under the Obama
years, family detention, everyone has now
heard about the Flores settlement.
They may not know who Flores is—a 15-year-old
Salvadoran on whom this settlement is based—but
it said that children cannot be held for more
than 20 days.
That is what Trump is dealing with now.
He wants this overturned so that he can continue
to hold the children, maybe still—at least
with their parents.
But in fact, you were going to centers—and
our reporter, Democracy Now’s Renée Feltz,
was going to these centers where families
were held for over a year.
CLARA LONG: Right, because the Obama administration
did not want to comply with that legal settlement,
either, and it took committed advocacy by
plaintiff’s lawyers for the Flores children
and many, many others to hold the Obama administration
to that short-term 20-day limit.
So when the Obama administration reinstituted
family detention after eradicating it—they
eradicated it in 2009, reinstituted it in
2014—they attempted to hold people indefinitely.
