AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Egypt has declared three days of national
mourning after at least 300 people were killed
in an attack on a crowded Sufi mosque in Egypt’s
Sinai Peninsula Friday.
Egyptian officials are calling it the deadliest
terror attack in Egypt’s modern history.
More than two dozen attackers wearing military
combat uniforms detonated a bomb inside the
mosque, opened fire with machine guns on fleeing
worshipers, and set cars ablaze to stop people
from being able to escape.
Among the victims were at least 27 children.
Officials are blaming the attack on a militant
group linked to ISIS.
This is Mohamed Abdel Fattah, the imam of
the al-Rawdah Sufi mosque, describing Friday’s
attack.
MOHAMED ABDEL FATTAH: About two minutes after
I climbed onto the platform, I heard what
sounded like an explosion outside the mosque,
and then some people came inside firing at
all of the worshipers.
Of course, as soon as people heard the firing,
they all started to run.
Some people climbed onto the platform.
I saw them piled on top of each other.
And they, the assailants, were hitting anybody
and everybody.
Anybody who was breathing.
I did not see their numbers.
I did not see what they looked like.
I could only feel their presence inside the
mosque.
AMY GOODMAN: Over the last year, ISIS-linked
militants in Egypt have also repeatedly targeted
Coptic Christians, bombing two Coptic churches
and opening fire on a bus headed to a monastery.
Within hours after Friday’s attack, the
Egyptian president Abdel Fattah Al Sisi appeared
on television, vowing revenge for the attack.
Only minutes later, Egyptian warplanes carried
out multiple airstrikes in the desert of the
Sinai Peninsula.
The military says they were targeting militants
fleeing the attack.
ABDEL FATTAH AL SISI: The military and police
will return security and stability with absolute
power in the coming short period of time.
This is our retaliation.
We will respond to this attack with brutal
strength to encounter these terrorist extremists,
the Takfiris.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we go to Cairo where
we are joined by Democracy Now!
correspondent Sharif Abdel Kouddous.
Sharif, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Can you lay out for us what you understand
happened on Friday, and what has been the
response since?
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Well, it is as you
described it.
About 25 to 30 militants arrived as the sermon,
the Friday prayer, was taking place.
They arrived in five four-wheel drive vehicles,
positioned themselves outside the main door
and the 12 windows of the mosque, set off
explosives in the mosque, and then began opening
fire on the worshipers who were trying to
flee.
They torched several cars outside to prevent
people from escaping.
They fired on ambulances that had arrived
on the scene.
And we have this horrific death toll of 305
people killed.
So this is a very, very highly coordinated
attack.
All indications point to the Islamic State
affiliate in Sinai as being responsible for
this, although there hasn’t been an official
claim of responsibility.
And it looks like there are largely two reasons
why this mosque was targeted.
One is, in the past year, as the Islamic State
has targeted Sufis in the area, most notably
killing a leading Sufi religious scholar,
beheading him and posting pictures of it online.
There was an ISIS commander also who singled
out that area of Sinai as being one of the
places where Sufis live, that the group wanted
to or intended to eradicate.
And several reports have come out now that
militants have stormed the village several
times as recently as last week, warning the
residents not to allow Sufi rituals to take
place there, but also not to coordinate with
the police and the Army.
The tribe from that area, the Sawarka, are
in conflict with the Islamic State.
So that also looks like it was a main motivating
factor for them to attack this area.
And with all of these threats that have been
made against this village, the residents themselves
had reportedly set up their own civilian checkpoints
to try and protect themselves.
And even so, this attack seems to have taken
place with relative ease by the militants,
and we have this very bloody death toll.
This is a village of only 2,500 people, so
you’re talking about nearly one in ten people
from this village, from this community, being
killed.
And there are reports now that they are being
buried in mass graves.
.
AMY GOODMAN: The media often refers to Sufism,
Sharif, as a sect, a minority group.
Can you talk to us about this religious group?
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Right.
I mean, you shouldn’t even really say a
Sufi mosque.
Most people would not identify in that way
here.
This was a mosque that was frequented by Sufis
and non-Sufis alike.
It had a center where Sufi rituals were practiced.
Sufis are not a sect of Muslims.
They are not a minority group.
They are an integral part of mainstream Sunni
Islam.
For centuries, Sufism has been accepted as
an integral part of mainstream Islam.
Many leading theologians are Sufi.
The head of al-Azhar, Egypt’s top Islamic
authority, is Sufi.
So calling the Rawdah mosque a Sufi mosque
is a bit misleading.
It was frequented by Sufis and non-Sufis alike.
This was also a fact that I’m sure—the
attackers also knew they were killing Sunni
Muslims and this was why this was very shocking.
It’s the first major militant attack on
a Muslim congregation.
It marks kind of a new phase in who they are
targeting.
And it may, in some way, change—public anger
may increase towards them in Sinai that would
help in this conflict.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about who is the
IS affiliate in Sinai and what is Sisi’s
strategy in Sinai?
And talk about it just for people who are
not even familiar with the map, how Sinai
fits into Egyptian politics.
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Well, Sinai is a peninsula
that is attached to mainstream Egypt.
It is technically in Asia, not in Africa.
And this was occupied by Israel in the 1967
war, up until 1979 or 1980 when they withdrew
following the peace treaty.
But the region has seen a lot of militancy,
especially in the last few years.
The Islamic State affiliate that we’re talking
about really is the outgrowth of a group called
Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, which first appeared
on the scene in Sinai in 2011.
Back then, they were attacking mostly Israel.
They were attacking a gas pipeline that led
to Israel.
They stepped up their attacks as did other
Islamist militant groups, in 2013, following
the overthrow by Sisi of President Mohamed
Morsi in July of that year.
They began attacking police and military installations,
claiming responsibility for several high profile
attacks.
Then in 2014, they pledged allegiance to ISIS.
They called themselves Wilayat Sinai, or the
Sinai Province.
And we saw since then a ramping up of these
large-scale attacks on civilians.
They claimed responsibility for the downing
of a Russian airliner in 2015 that killed
all 224 people on board.
They’ve launched a very violent campaign
against Egypt’s Coptic Christian minority
over the past year.
We have seen bombs ripping through churches
in Cairo and other cities that have killed
dozens.
And now we see this latest attack, the first
of its kind, on a mosque.
AMY GOODMAN: Sharif, on Friday, President
Trump tweeted, “Will be calling the President
of Egypt in a short while to discuss the tragic
terrorist attack, with so much loss of life.
We have to get TOUGHER AND SMARTER than ever
before, and we will.
Need the WALL, need the BAN!
God bless the people of Egypt.”
That was President Trump’s tweet before
he called Sisi.
Can you talk about the U.S. relationship with
Egypt, Trump’s relationship with Sisi?
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Well, Trump—the U.S.
relationship with Egypt has long been one
of unquestioned support, with Egypt as the
second largest recipient of aid from the US,
second only to Israel.
And that support has continued through successive
governments.
So through Mubarak for 30 years, through the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, through
Mohamed Morsi, and now through Sisi.
I mean, there has been slight variations,
but essentially, the support has always been
there.
Sisi, in response to this, as we heard in
that clip, said he would respond with brute
force and he would avenge the martyrs.
And already, we’re hearing of airstrikes
happening in Sinai.
But this is really a continuation of the same
exact kind of approach, conventional warfare,
security approach that is failing and is maybe
exacerbating the crisis.
I mean, much of Sinai already has been under
emergency law since 2014.
There are tens of thousands of soldiers there.
There are army tanks, helicopters.
There’s heavy armor that has been deployed
in the area.
And despite all of that, there has been very
few tangible results.
The government keeps claiming every day—you
see almost every day in reports in newspapers
of militants captured and killed in Sinai.
If you go to the Facebook page of the Army,
they have claimed by now to have killed about
3,000 militants, which is much more than they
originally said existed.
But it is impossible to verify these claims.
Journalists are not allowed to go to northern
Sinai, haven’t been for over three years
now.
So it’s very hard to understand what is
happening on the ground.
Meanwhile, Egypt and Sisi is spending billions
of dollars signing these massive arms deals
for everything from German submarines to Russian
helicopters to French fighter jets and an
aircraft carrier.
First of all, this is a country that is suffering
an economic crisis and spends very little
on healthcare and on education.
But secondly, critics say these are weaponry
that could be used in conventional warfare
and is not applicable to this kind of counterterrorism
conflict that they are facing.
And finally, the support of the local population
in Sinai is key to winning this kind of conflict,
but the military has engaged in very heavy-handed
tactics, and local tribes there.
Residents of Sinai have long felt discriminated
against, but this latest campaign has been
particularly brutal.
There has been these indiscriminate military
tactics that have resulted in civilian casualties.
There are multiple accounts of extrajudicial
executions and arbitrary detentions and torture.
Houses have been razed and people forcibly
displaced.
Entire villages have been destroyed.
The treatment at checkpoints by military police
of residents is notoriously bad.
The phone service—mobile phone service—is
regularly disrupted.
And so people who oppose the militants are
reluctant to even support the Army and the
security forces because this is the way they
are being treated.
But also, the militants themselves brutally
intimidate the residents against collaborating
with the Army and police, and they come in—they’ll
kidnap someone and dump their decapitated
body on the streets to terrorize the residents.
And so the people of Sinai are really stuck
in this conflict, and they are the ones who
are really suffering.
AMY GOODMAN: Sharif, before we go, I wanted
to ask you about a recent high court decision—Egypt’s
highest appeals court—upholding Alaa Abdel
Fattah’s five-year prison sentence plus
five years probation and a massive fine.
The ruling final, can’t be appealed.
Served three and a half years of his sentence
already, so he’ll spend another year and
a half in jail.
Can you explain who he is, his significance,
and what this means for other protesters?
Also the situation for journalists right now
in Egypt.
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Well, Alaa Abdel Fattah
was a leading figure of the 2011 uprising,
of the revolution.
He was a leading thinker and a very respected
figure.
And I think that is why he was targeted so
viciously by the government.
He has been imprisoned under Mubarak.
He was imprisoned under the Supreme Council
of the Armed Forces.
He was arrested — issued an arrest warrant
under Mohamed Morsi.
He has been in prison now for about 3.5 years
of his five-year sentence.
That was the final appeal.
I was at court that day, and it was rejected,
so he’s going to have to spend at least
another year and a half in prison.
He is also facing another trial, which the
verdict is set for December 30, where he faces
more years in prison.
And even after he gets out, he has five years
of probation.
And what probation means here in Egypt for
someone like Alaa would be spending 12 hours
a day, every night, in a police station.
He would have to go in at 6:00 p.m. every
day, spend the night there, and he gets out
at 6:00 a.m.
So that’s another five years, of half of
that being detained.
So that’s very difficult.
With regards to the state of journalism, after
the attacks on Friday, the official state
information service issued some type of a
statement to all of the foreign press.
In it, it included a warning to international
media outlets and to human rights organizations,
basically saying that if we don’t toe the
government line, that we are considered quote
“partners” to terrorism.
Of course, the regime here has come under
widespread criticism for its dismal human
rights record.
I mean, this is kind of the worst wave of
oppression in Egypt’s modern history.
They jail activists and journalists and human
rights workers, and there’s multiple accounts
of forced disappearance and torture.
And Sisi has used this War on Terror and attacks
like these as a pretext to clamp down on political
freedoms.
And just in the past few weeks, Amy, there’s
been another wave of arrests.
A very prominent activist called Mahinour
el-Masry was detained.
A prominent secular blogger was detained.
There was a wave of arrests almost unprecedented
targeting the gay community.
So all of this is happening, and yet the military
uses or the government uses these attacks
to threaten or warn human rights organizations
and journalists.
And finally, we should just remember that
while Friday’s mosque attack was the deadliest
terrorist attack in Egypt, in Egyptian history,
it wasn’t the deadliest incident.
The most violent incident came in August of
2013 when the Army and the police dispersed
a pro-Morsi protest, killing between 800 and
1,000 people.
AMY GOODMAN: And just go on with that, for
our last remaining minute.
Explain what happened and how that informs
Egypt today.
SHARIF ABDEL KOUDDOUS: Well, that was a mass
sit-in by supporters of the ousted president
Mohamed Morsi, in two separate districts in
Cairo.
And the police, backed by the Army, came in
and brutally opened fire.
There has been multiple reports on this and
multiple accounts.
We don’t even know what the exact death
toll is.
But I was there that day, and it was for me
the bloodiest incident I had witnessed.
And I have been in something like five different
wars now, and that one day was the bloodiest
I had ever seen.
We’re talking about the killing of at least—I
think the official is at least 700, but it’s
probably between 800 and 1000 people, in a
matter of hours, in one space.
So this is one of the worst state mass killings
since Tiananmen Square, or maybe the worst,
since Tiananmen Square.
And it is not something that the government
or the country has really come to terms with,
and it is something that kind of ended the
revolution.
Many people took to the streets initially,
did not agree with the Muslim Brotherhood,
and they were not supporting the Muslim Brotherhood
sit-in.
But once you can kill that many people in
a day, that kind of was the first time that
the government and the Army really had full
control back, and the revolution was pretty
much crushed.
AMY GOODMAN: Sharif, I want to thank you for
being with us.
Sharif Abdel Kouddous, Democracy Now!s correspondent
in Cairo, Egypt.
He’s a Nation Institute fellow.
We’ll link to what you write, Sharif, at
democracynow.org.
When we come back, showdown at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau in Washington.
Who will show up for work today as its head?
Then we speak with two not-so-traditional
Democratic candidates who won their races
in North Carolina and Virginia.
Braxton Winston became famous in Charlotte,
North Carolina, with his raised fist in front
of a police line protesting police brutality.
He will now take his seat on the Charlotte
City Council.
And we will speak with Lee Carter, a Democratic
Socialist, former Marine, who unseated the
Republican majority whip of Virginia’s legislature
known as the Virginia House of Delegates.
This is Democracy Now!
Back in a minute.
