AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report, with Part 2 of our
discussion with historian Michael Honey and
civil rights icon James Lawson.
Yes, we’re continuing to look back 50 years
after the assassination of Reverend Martin
Luther King Jr., gunned down April 4th, 1968,
in Memphis.
His final speech, the night before he was
killed, was in Memphis at the Mason Temple,
50 years ago today, where Dr. King spoke about
our guest, the Reverend James Lawson.
REV.
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.: And I want to commend
the preachers, under the leadership of these
noble men: James Lawson, one who has been
in this struggle for many years.
He’s been to jail for struggling.
He’s been kicked out of Vanderbilt University
for this struggling.
But he’s still going on, fighting for the
rights of his people.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Martin Luther King, 50 years
ago today, as we continue our discussion with
civil rights icon Reverend James Lawson, who
Dr. King was addressing in his Mountaintop
speech.
He was the pastor at the time, in Memphis,
of the Centenary Methodist Church in 1968.
And we’re joined by historian Michael Honey,
author of the new book To the Promised Land:
Martin Luther King and the Fight for Economic
Justice.
I wanted to go back, Reverend Lawson, to why
King first came to Memphis.
It was as a result of a call you made, is
that right?
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yes, but—yes, but it must
be said that when the police gassed us and
broke up a peaceful march on Main Street in
Memphis on February the 23rd, the community
had a very hasty meeting at Mason Temple after
that gassing and decided that we had to mobilize
the entire community.
So they selected a number of us to be on a
strategy committee, and they asked me to serve
as chair of that strategy committee.
We met that following Monday.
We began mass meetings.
And as we began those mass meetings, we said,
“Let us bring into the meeting a number
of figures.”
And so, we strategized that we wanted Bayard
Rustin to come in.
We wanted Roy Wilkins of the NAACP to come
in.
We wanted Martin Luther King Jr. to come in.
And so, we were—we made assignments, right
then and there, for the people who would call
each of these men and get a date from them
when they could come in.
So, I, of course, as a longtime associate
of Martin King’s, from, in fact, 1955, and
been with him in Birmingham in the sit-in
campaign, workshops on nonviolence in South
Carolina and elsewhere across the South—so
I was the natural person to call him and talk
to him about it.
And he was instantly aware of the strike,
and he agreed very quickly that he would come
as soon as possible.
AMY GOODMAN: Reverend Lawson, when he was
forced out of that first march, the march
that broke up because of violence in the march,
and left, what did you feel was happening
within that march?
And then, why Dr. King, who had left—many
did not want him to return, of his inner circle.
But he said he had to return to Memphis.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Exactly.
And that’s right.
This would have been the—his coming to the
city the third time in the campaign.
And because the 28th, I think it was, of March,
that, again, was sabotaged by a variety of
forces that were already operative in the
South, as well as elsewhere in our country—we
were not sure, until we began to be able to
look at the pictures and the photographs of
that day, about the fact that it was sabotaged.
But in any case, as Martin King, he, as Martin
King, Martin King realized that he had to
return to Memphis.
And I had every confidence that he was going
to make that decision, though many forces
said to him, “Do not return.”
But that was for the second major march that
he would have been on in Memphis.
AMY GOODMAN: And why was he personally so
committed to returning, which he did, of course,
gave that speech at Mason Temple—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —and, the next day, would be
killed?
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Because, number one, he recognized
what was going on in Memphis was a part of
what I call the black freedom movement at
that time, or it can also be called, as Congressman
John Lewis called it, the nonviolent movement
of America.
So, he had no hesitation in identifying himself
with the strike, especially with the poverty
of economics, the poverty of people who work
but live in poverty.
MICHAEL HONEY: One of his great quotes on
March 18th was, “It is a crime for people
to live in this rich country—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Exactly, yes.
MICHAEL HONEY: —”and receive starvation
wages.”
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Absolutely.
MICHAEL HONEY: We could say that today, as
well.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yes, yes.
AMY GOODMAN: You know, let’s go to that
clip of Dr. King himself making that comment,
March 18th, before he left, at the time of
that march in Memphis.
REV.
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.: You are demanding
that this city will respect the dignity of
labor.
So often we overlook the work and the significance
of those who are not in professional jobs,
of those who are not in the so-called big
jobs.
But let me say to you tonight that whenever
you are engaged in work that serves humanity
and is for the building of humanity, it has
dignity, and it has worth.
You are reminding not only Memphis, but you
are reminding the nation, that it is a crime
for people to live in this rich nation and
receive starvation wages.
AMY GOODMAN: “It is a crime for people to
live in this nation—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: It is a crime, yes.
That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: —”and receive starvation
wages.”
I immediately think about what’s happening
right now in Kentucky, in Oklahoma, well-known
red states, where the teachers have marched
out.
In Oklahoma, in many places, there’s only
four days of school a week.
Fifth day, the teachers go out and do their
second and third jobs, because they can’t
make enough money—what, 49 of 50 states—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: —in the amount of money that
they are making.
Why do you think, Reverend James Lawson, that
Dr. King is not remembered as much for his
intense message about economic justice, his
support of unions?
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Do you want my frank opinion?
AMY GOODMAN: I do.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: OK.
I happen to think that because Martin Luther
King Jr. was a black man and saw racism and
racial injustice and economic injustice as
crimes against humanity, that it is the racist
element in the United States that does not
see that that message relates to the entirety
of the land, and that what the CRM is called
in the United States teaches too many people
that that only amounts to issues for the Negro,
and not issues about tyranny and issues about
our capacity to govern ourselves.
I think it is the racist element in our society
that does not accept King in Christianity,
for an example, as perhaps the primary prophet,
the primary preacher, of the 20th century.
MICHAEL HONEY: And this applies to those unemployed
steelworkers in Pennsylvania and other places
just as much as it applies to unemployed people
who used to work in the cotton economy in
Mississippi.
These are the left-out people, the throwaway
people—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: That’s right.
MICHAEL HONEY: —of plantation capitalism.
And this is an uncomfortable conversation
for advertisers and people who like to sponsor
the Martin Luther King Day events, politicians.
People come together to celebrate, which they
should.
But bringing up these issues is about right
now.
It’s about economic injustice right now.
And it’s very uncomfortable for some people
to have that conversation.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: And it’s not understood, either,
with the many white workers who have been
terminated in the steel industries, in agriculture,
in all across the country, and who are not
able now to have the income that they had
in 1960 or 1970, because of the economic circumstances.
MICHAEL HONEY: Workers everywhere should see
King as their hero—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah, exactly.
MICHAEL HONEY: —as their hero, a labor hero.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Absolutely.
MICHAEL HONEY: Yes.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Absolutely.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask you, Michael
Honey, about the women of the movement, the
women who were working not only with Dr. King,
but—Reverend Lawson, you were based in Memphis,
as well—the women icons of the civil rights
movement.
MICHAEL HONEY: Well, I would point to the
grassroots people.
There are women who are well known, like Rosa
Parks.
But there are thousands and thousands of women
who were in the movement, who took people
into their homes during Mississippi Freedom
Summer, and various ways of supporting the
Memphis sanitation strike, particularly the
economic boycott of the businesses downtown,
and people like Cornelia Crenshaw in Memphis,
who helped with raising funds for the strike.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: And was on the march with us
many times.
MICHAEL HONEY: Yeah.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: In many meetings, yes, absolutely.
Oh, Annell Ponder of Mississippi is another
illustration.
[Jo Ann] Robinson of the Montgomery bus boycott.
Helen Taylor in the sit-in campaigns in Nashville.
Yeah, the movement could not have happened
without the women, who very often produced
not only care, but were the people who also
set the strategy.
The Montgomery black women raised the issue
of the indignity and hostility they often
faced from white bus drivers.
So, you get their push as early as 1952, ’53,
and then you get sanitation workers in Memphis
saying “I am a man”—the issue of human
dignity and appreciation of human life.
That agenda was actually set by black women
in Montgomery, Alabama, reaffirmed by black
women in our national campaigns.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, when you talk about Jo
Ann Robinson in Montgomery, for example, Rosa
Parks sits down on the bus, December 1st,
1955.
That day, you have Jo Ann Robinson, an educator
in Montgomery, who—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: —what—what do you call it?—mimeographs
off all these fliers—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Exactly.
That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: —to begin the bus boycott.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Spent the entire night with
a handful of people mimeographing 30,000 little
half-page notices of the boycott on Monday,
passed them around on Saturday, into barbershops,
into pool halls, into churches, and whatnot
and whatnot.
Yes, absolutely.
MICHAEL HONEY: Another example during the
Memphis sanitation strike is that AFSCME,
the union, had no strike fund for this strike.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yes.
MICHAEL HONEY: It was a walkout by the men.
It was never anything that the union tried
to bring about.
And who carried out that fundraising?
A lot of it was women in the community and
also the women members of the workforce, the
strikers.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: That’s right.
MICHAEL HONEY: They were the ones that were
holding the families together.
And as many people I interviewed, black workers
in that strike, said, “We could never have
done this without the full support of our
families.”
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted—
MICHAEL HONEY: So, the “I Am a Man” slogan.
Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Go ahead.
MICHAEL HONEY: The “I Am a Man” slogan
really, really meant human dignity.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah.
MICHAEL HONEY: Everybody understood this.
This was not about—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah.
MICHAEL HONEY: —manhood, per se.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: That’s right.
MICHAEL HONEY: This was about dignity.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah.
MICHAEL HONEY: And women would say, “And
I am a woman, too,” you know, that the idea
is—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yeah.
MICHAEL HONEY: —that we’re all in this
together.
But people understood immediately that slogan.
And it came after people had been beaten and
maced and gassed, standing up for their rights.
AMY GOODMAN: What about the effect of the
surveillance, Reverend Lawson, on Dr. King?
These are the last days of his life.
The FBI pursuit and persecution of Dr. Martin
Luther King—
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —how intense was it?
And how was it affecting Dr. King?
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Well, Dr. King knew, from 1964,
Nobel Peace Prize, that the FBI was following
him and tapping his phones in a 24-hour capacity.
And he saw that as a Jesus follower.
He saw that as one of the things that meant
that his life was blessed, because there were
people who persecuted him unwarrantedly.
So he lived with it.
But I want to say, publicly, that there were
governmental agencies that were vehemently
opposed to Martin King and saw him as a traitor,
saw him as a communist, saw him as an enemy
of the people.
There are executive orders that are available
that indicate that King had to be stopped.
So, when we talk about the assassination of
Martin Luther King, I maintain that we now
have the full evidence, to a moral certainty
beyond a shadow of doubt, that James Earl
Ray was not the shooter and was not the plotter
or the planner.
This was done by other people in other agencies.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain this.
We just have a minute to go on the satellite,
Reverend James Lawson, that you’re saying
James Earl Ray was not the shooter.
REV.
JAMES LAWSON: Yes.
Well, from the very beginning, there were
suspicions in my own mind, from things that
happened on the very day of the assassination.
You must remember that as he came into Memphis,
the 18th of March, the threats began in Memphis
itself, and many people heard of these.
This became a major undercurrent.
So, in my own mind, I was a part of the independent
investigations that was largely started by
Mark Lane and Dick Gregory.
They wrote a book on it.
But that, independent investigations, continued
in various parts of the country by different
people.
AMY GOODMAN: Reverend James Lawson and Michael
Honey, I know you’re racing off to another
event.
Reverend James Lawson, civil rights icon,
the pastor emeritus of the Holman United Methodist
Church in Los Angeles, before that, Centenary
Church in Memphis, Tennessee, which was a
center of the sanitation worker organizing
50 years ago.
And I want to thank Michael Honey, the historian
and civil rights activist, as well, author
of the new book, To the Promised Land: Martin
Luther King and the Fight for Economic Justice.
He also edited a book of King’s labor speeches
titled All Labor Has Dignity, and won the
Robert F. Kennedy Book Award for his previous
book, Going Down Jericho Road: The Memphis
Sanitation Strike, Martin Luther King’s
Last Campaign.
To see Part 1 of our discussion, you can go
to democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Thanks so much for joining us.
