AMY GOODMAN: We begin today’s show on the
Korean Peninsula, one day after President
Trump canceled plans for a June 12th summit
with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
Earlier today, a top official in North Korea’s
foreign ministry said Kim Jong-un is still
willing to meet with Trump at any time, saying
the cancellation of the summit was “extremely
regrettable.”
In a letter to Kim Jong-un, President Trump
cited Kim’s “tremendous anger and open
hostility” in recent comments as his reason
for canceling the talks.
Trump went on to write, “You talk about
nuclear capabilities, but ours are so massive
and powerful that I pray to God they will
never have to be used.”
President Trump sent the letter at 9:43 a.m.
on Thursday Eastern time, just hours after
North Korea declared it had destroyed one
of its nuclear weapons test sites.
According to a report from NBC, the decision
was made so abruptly the Trump administration
did not have time to notify congressional
leaders or foreign allies, including South
Korean President Moon Jae-in, who had just
been in Washington.
NBC reports Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
has privately blamed National Security Adviser
John Bolton for torpedoing the talks.
North Korea first threatened to pull out of
the talks after Bolton said the U.S. should
use the Libyan model for denuclearization.
In 2003, Libya negotiated sanctions relief
from the United States in exchange for renouncing
its nuclear program and welcoming international
inspectors to verify the dismantlement.
Eight years later, the U.S. and other nations
attacked Libya, toppling and killing Libyan
leader Muammar Gaddafi.
Vice President Mike Pence and President Trump
have also talked about the Libyan model in
recent weeks.
On Thursday, President Trump warned the U.S.
military is ready to act if North Korea should
take any “foolish” acts.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I’ve spoken to General
Mattis and the Joint Chiefs of Staff and our
military, which is by far the most powerful
anywhere in the world, that has been greatly
enhanced recently, as you all know, is ready,
if necessary.
Likewise, I have spoken to South Korea and
Japan, and they are not only ready, should
foolish or reckless acts be taken by North
Korea, but they are willing to shoulder much
of the cost of any financial burden, any of
the costs associated by the United States
in operations, if such an unfortunate situation
is forced upon us.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re joined now by two guests:
from Seoul, South Korea, Christine Ahn, founder
and international coordinator of Women Cross
DMZ, global movement of women mobilizing to
end the Korean War, and in Washington, D.C.,
we’re joined by investigative journalist
Tim Shorrock, who grew up in Tokyo and Seoul
and has been writing about the U.S. role in
Korea since the late ’70s, a correspondent
for The Nation and the Korea Center for Investigative
Journalism in Seoul.
But let’s go to Seoul first.
Christine Ahn, talk about your reaction and
the reaction in South Korea right now to President
Trump canceling the summit.
CHRISTINE AHN: Hi, Amy.
It’s quite a time to be in South Korea.
As you know, I have been leading a delegation,
Women Cross DMZ, along with the Nobel Women’s
Initiative, 30 women peace activists from
16 countries, including Russia, China, Mongolia,
Japan, Guam, Hawaii.
We’ve come from all around the world—there’s
a huge delegation from the United States—to
be here in South Korea at this historic juncture,
since the Panmunjom Declaration leading up
to the June 12th summit.
And so we’re here to support the Korea peace
process.
And it was quite devastating news to learn
last night that, you know, Moon Jae-in got
a—basically, was notified that this letter
had been sent to North Korea.
And it is really—it started out very sad.
I mean, a lot of tears were shed.
We’ve been spending several days with the
South Korean women.
We’re organizing another women’s peace
walk along the DMZ tomorrow.
And, you know, 80 million hearts are broken
across the Korean Peninsula.
You know, the Korean people—we know Moon
Jae-in has about 85 percent support rate in
South Korea.
The people, you know, are very heartened by
the gestures of peace and diplomacy by the
two Korean leaders.
And so, to suddenly kind of pull the carpet
that way—you know, I just came from a candlelight
vigil in Gwanghwamun Square.
And, you know, a lot of the speakers at the
demonstration were angry.
I mean, you know, it’s basically throwing
sand in the gears of a train that is already
in motion.
So, I would say that that’s the upside to
this, is that we know that the Panmunjom Declaration
is a bold agreement, it is a sweeping agreement.
And since the joint war drills between the
U.S. and South Korea will come to an end,
that we’ve heard that the inter-Korean peace
talks will resume.
But, you know, this train has left the station.
The people of North and South Korea want very
much peace to prevail on the Korean Peninsula.
And I think that’s our role as the international
community, especially from the United States,
is to support them in this critical hour.
AMY GOODMAN: Last week—last week, President
Trump said North Korean leader Kim Jong-un
and could suffer the same fate as former Libyan
leader Muammar Gaddafi if he refuses to give
up his nuclear weapons.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: The model, if you
look at that model with Gaddafi, that was
a total decimation.
We went in there to beat him.
Now, that model would take place if we don’t
make a deal, most likely.
But if we make a deal, I think Kim Jong-un
is going to be very, very happy.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that was President Trump.
Let’s bring Tim Shorrock into this discussion.
Who do you feel is to blame for the cancellation
of the summit?
Do you think it could possibly move forward?
And also, what does this mean for the South
Korean president, who was just in Washington
to meet with Trump to try to move the summit
forward?
Does this delegitimize him, bring China into
a more prominent role?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, this is a terrible insult
to the South Korean leadership and President
Moon, in particular, the fact that they did
not tell him in advance, though he’d been
there just a few hours before.
That’s an incredibly—I mean, it’s really
historic incompetence, colossal incompetence,
on the part of Trump, on the part of Bolton,
on the part of Vice President Pence, to repeat
these—you know, Libya solution, which is
basically regime change on steroids for the
North Koreans.
And they keep talking about this sort of Libya
option, as if it’s not going to faze North
Korea.
Well, of course it will.
And they spoke out very strongly.
So I think it’s very, very damaging for
U.S.-South Korean relations, for one thing.
I think there’s a hotline between Moon and
Kim, and I’m hopeful that they’re going
to be using it.
I’m not quite sure about the—you know,
how this is going to affect China, but, certainly,
by just abruptly pulling out like this, for
very odd reasons, it’s going to tell countries
like China, that have been enforcing sanctions
against North Korea, that the U.S. is simply
not serious.
So I think, you know, altogether, it’s a
fiasco.
But, you know, I do think there are signs
here.
I mean, you read the North Korean statement.
And you also—you read through the lines
of what Trump wrote yesterday, there still
is openness to talk.
So, I think—you know, Moon is a very skilled
politician, very skilled negotiator.
I have a feeling he can get things on track.
But I think that the meeting in Singapore
is clearly going to be delayed or, you know,
never happen, it will happen somewhere else.
AMY GOODMAN: So, this came—this letter and
the announcement of the letter came out yesterday
within hours after—well, it’s not been
completely verified, but Kim Jong-un had international
journalists there, wouldn’t allow in international
nuclear inspectors, but they blew up one of
the nuclear testing sites.
And soon after, the North Koreans released
three U.S. prisoners.
Can you talk about the significance of this?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, yeah.
This was like the first step toward denuclearization.
They made it very public.
They had all kinds of reporters there, from
South Korea, Japan, the United States.
You know, CBS and CNN were there.
And so, you know, this is a signal that they’re
beginning this process.
And the fact that the disinvitation to meet
came almost at exactly the same time as this
was happening was—you know, at least you
could say it’s quite ironic, isn’t it?
But the fact—
AMY GOODMAN: Or, most significantly, right
after both of those actions took place, on
the part of North Korea, preparing for the
summit.
TIM SHORROCK: Exactly, exactly.
And, you know, before all this blew up in
Trump’s face, the North Koreans had unilaterally
stopped their tests, you know, nuclear tests
and missile tests.
As you said, they had closed the test site.
They released these people.
And they had also said they’re not opposed
to normal military exercises, meaning without
strategic bombers and without strategic aircraft
carriers.
What did the U.S. do?
It brought in—tried to bring in B-52s for
these exercises.
North Korea called them on it, and they withdrew
the B-52s.
But it shows that this hostile policy that
the North Koreans keep talking about—years
and years of talking about they will negotiate
if the U.S. removes its hostile policy—well,
that hostile policy has yet to change.
And we see it with Bolton.
We see it with Pence.
And the fact that Pompeo, the secretary of
state, actually told NBC News and other news
outlets that he thought Bolton was responsible
for this collapse and it was Bolton who engineered
this withdrawal from the talks is very, very
significant.
And so, I think, you know, Pompeo and—probably
and the CIA, which he just left, are going
to try to put the pieces together again.
AMY GOODMAN: Christine Ahn, you said you are
headed to the Demilitarized Zone with a group
of women.
Explain.
CHRISTINE AHN: Well, three years ago, as you
know, Amy, I helped lead a delegation of 30
women activists, including Gloria Steinem
and some Nobel Peace laureates, Medea Benjamin,
Ann Wright and others across the Demilitarized
Zone from North Korea to South Korea, calling
for a peace treaty to end the Korean War,
the reunion of families, and women’s leadership
in the peace-building process.
And three years later, this is also a significant
year.
Then was the 70th anniversary of Korea’s
division.
This is the 70th anniversary of the creation
of two separate states.
May 24th is International Women’s Day for
Peace and Disarmament.
And we’re in a critical window right now.
And so we wanted to bring to the world’s
attention that not only do the people of the
Korean Peninsula want peace, women support
the peace process.
We are calling for our inclusion in the peace
process.
We know that when women’s groups are involved
in a peace process, that it actually leads
to a peace agreement.
And when we help draft it, it leads to a far
more durable and sustainable one.
So, here we are.
We actually met with the U.S. Embassy this
morning, before we held a protest outside
of the Embassy.
But, you know, we’re here in the service.
We’re here to help all sides, between the
DPRK and the U.S., try to come to some understanding,
because, clearly, we know that there is, within
the Trump administration, tremendous fissures.
On the one hand, you have the Bolton and the
Pence hard-liners that want to derail the
process, and then you have the Pompeos on
the other side.
And, you know, clearly, this round, that they
won.
But, you know, the message that we got from
the U.S. Embassy is, you know, we see that—we
want very much for there to be talks.
And so, there’s a part of me that—we know
that Trump is very unhinged, and he makes
very wild remarks and tweets, but Mike Pence
is very calculated.
So there must have been a reason that he brought
up the Bolton statement—I mean, sorry, yeah,
the Bolton statement again about Libya.
And I think that probably is because they’re
not prepared, because they still don’t have
a U.S. ambassador to South Korea.
They’re just—you know, we know, just from
the last year of having Rex Tillerson completely
decimate the State Department, that they don’t
have an adequate diplomatic corps.
And so, I think that the way that they have
spun it is, you know, North Korea is not responding
to our calls, that they are the ones that
reneged on their part of the deal.
And as Tim so astutely pointed out, all these
things have taken place that definitely is
not preparing the table for peace talks.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Tim Shorrock, the issue of
Mike Pence, the vice president, reiterating
what John Bolton said about the Libyan model—again,
if people remember, after the denuclearization
deal, U.S. allies attacked Libya, and Muammar
Gaddafi was not only overthrown, he was murdered
in the streets of Libya by U.S.-backed rebels.
This history with Mike Pence, the vice president,
and North Korea, can you talk about that?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, you know, I call him the
grouch of the Pyeongchang Olympics.
He’s the guy that went to the Olympics and
refused to even make any kind of eye contact,
shake the hands of the North Koreans who were
there, insulted his hosts.
This is just a very simpleminded, hard-line
guy.
And, you know, clearly, Bolton understands,
when he talks about the Libya solution, there’s
two parts to it.
You know, Libya gave up its nuclear weapons
without making—you know, gave up its nuclear
weapons before receiving any kind of economic
aid or support.
So that was one part of it.
And then, of course, after he did give them
up, his regime was overthrown by the U.S.
and NATO.
So, it’s a two-edged sword that he’s throwing
at the North Koreans, and they reject them
both.
And when he talks about this, the North—he
knows how the North Koreans are going to react.
And I am assuming Pompeo—I’m assuming
the vice president, Pence, is intelligent
enough to have gotten those kind of briefings,
that he knows exactly what Bolton’s line
means to the North Koreans, and that’s why
he’s saying it.
I mean, this is what I mean by colossal, colossal
incompetence.
I mean, you can’t have these people saying
these kinds of things and expect the North
Koreans to, you know, just respond in a friendly
way.
Of course they’re going to get angry.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, colossal incompetence or
extremely deliberate sabotaging of this?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, it’s—
AMY GOODMAN: Bolton came into office, national
security adviser, not approved by the Senate.
He has two major issues he has harped on for
years: attacking Iran and dismantling the
nuclear deal there—that, he succeeded in
getting done—and not making a deal with
North Korea.
TIM SHORROCK: Well, yeah, yeah, I think it
is sabotage on the part of Bolton.
But I think—when I talk about incompetence,
I’m talking about the very top, with Trump.
To have people saying one thing, on one hand,
and then something completely opposite, on
the other, that’s incompetence.
And just to withdraw, you know, because Bolton
came running in there at 10 p.m. saying, “You
know, look at this piece of paper!
Look what they said!
Look at the mean things that North Korea is
saying about Vice President Pence!”
I mean, it’s like childish.
It’s like having a child president, and
it’s like having a child national security
adviser.
AMY GOODMAN: We have just 30 seconds.
Do you have hope, Tim Shorrock, that this
summit could get back on track?
TIM SHORROCK: I do.
And I want to say that I was there three years
ago when Women Cross DMZ actually crossed
the DMZ.
I was there in South Korea when they crossed
the border.
They helped put this on the map.
And, you know, I think all credit must be
due to these women activists in North and
South Korea for doing this.
And I think, actually, you know, that kind
of push is necessary to keep these talks on
track.
And, yes, I do believe that they can get back.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Christine—
TIM SHORROCK: I do believe that it will happen.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Christine Ahn, how do you
see that happening?
Thirty seconds.
CHRISTINE AHN: It takes a global movement.
Let’s not forget, the Korean War was an
international conflict.
Twenty-four countries participated in this
war.
And so, we’re here.
We need to build the people’s movement.
Just like the Candlelight Revolution is shining
a light to the world, let’s shine a light
back to Korea.
Let’s support the peace process.
July 12th—I mean, sorry, June 12th is the
global day of solidarity with the Korean people
for peace on the Korean Peninsula.
Let’s sign a peace treaty now.
AMY GOODMAN: Christine Ahn, founder and international
coordinator of the Women Cross DMZ, global
movement of women mobilizing to end the Korean
War, so many decades later, speaking to us
from Seoul, South Korea.
And Tim Shorrock, Washington-based investigative
journalist, we’ll link to your piece in
The Nation, a reporter for The Nation and
the Korea Center for Investigative Journalism
in Seoul.
When we come back, disgraced Hollywood mogul
Harvey Weinstein has turned himself in to
New York police on charges of raping a woman
and forcing another to perform oral sex on
him.
We’ll speak with one of his victims.
Stay with us.
