AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
We begin with a look at escalating tensions
between the United States and Iran.
On Sunday, the U.S. Ambassador to Britain
Woody Johnson wrote an op-ed in The Telegraph
urging Britain to withdraw its support of
the landmark 2015 Iran nuclear deal.
Ambassador Johnson wrote, “America is turning
up the pressure and we want the U.K. by our
side.”
Johnson’s op-ed comes after the Trump administration
re-imposed economic sanctions against Iran
last week following Trump’s decision to
withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal.
The sanctions increase tensions between the
U.S. and Iran, and the U.S. and its European
allies.
Trump has threatened other countries seeking
to trade with Iran, tweeting “Anyone doing
business with Iran will NOT be doing business
with the United States.”
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani condemned
the sanctions as psychological warfare, saying
last week he would not begin negotiations
until the sanctions are withdrawn.
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI: The first step would
be for U.S. President Donald Trump to show
that he genuinely wants to engage in negotiations
to solve a problem.
What’s the meaning of negotiations when
you impose sanctions at the same time?
It’s like someone pulling a knife to stab
a rival or an enemy in the arm while at the
same time claiming we should be talking and
negotiating.
The answer in such a case would be to say,
“Remove the knife from the arm and put the
knife away.”
AMY GOODMAN: Just last month, President Trump
said he would meet with Iranian President
Hassan Rouhani whenever Rouhani wants, without
preconditions.
This is Trump speaking at a White House conference
just two weeks ago.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I do believe that
they will probably end up wanting to meet,
and I’m ready to meet any time they want
to.
And I don’t do that from strength or from
weakness; I think it is an appropriate thing
to do.
If we could work something out that’s meaningful,
not the waste of paper that the other deal
was, I would certainly be willing to meet.
UNKNOWN: Do you have preconditions for that
meeting?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: No preconditions.
No.
If they want to meet, I’ll meet.
Any time they want.
Any time they want.
It’s good for the country, good for them,
good for us and good for the world.
No preconditions.
If they want to meet, I’ll meet.
AMY GOODMAN: Only hours later, Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo announced a slew of preconditions
for a possible meeting, including Iran being
willing to enter into a new nuclear deal.
Well, for more, we’re joined now by Ambassador
Seyed Hossein Mousavian, Middle East Security
and Nuclear Policy Specialist at Princeton
University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public
and International Affairs.
From 2003 to 2005, he served as spokesperson
for Iran in its nuclear negotiations with
the European Union.
He is author of The Iranian Nuclear Crisis:
A Memoir and most recently, Iran and the United
States: An Insider’s View on the Failed
Past and the Road to Peace.
Ambassador, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Thank you for joining us from Princeton University.
Why don’t we start off with the latest news?
You have the U.S. Ambassador to Britain Woody
Johnson pressuring Britain to pull out of
the U.S. nuclear deal following the United
States, which Trump did, and the imposition
of sanctions by the United States last week
on Iran.
SEYED HOSSEIN MOUSAVIAN: As you know, the
Iranian nuclear deal was the result of 13
years of negotiation between Iran and the
world powers.
The U.S. engaged in negotiation in 2013 and
had also bilateral meetings—intrusive, frequent
bilateral meetings—from 2013 to 2015.
Ultimately, Iran and the U.S., Iran, the world
powers, agreed on the nuclear deal.
The United Nations Security Council passed
a resolution approving the deal.
And two years after deal, Iran has fully complied
with all its commitments.
The IAEA, International Atomic Energy Agency,
which is the sole agency responsible for supervising
the nuclear program of member states, has
11 times since 2016 confirmed Iran’s full
compliance with the nuclear deal.
Now, the U.S. is the only UN Security Council
member who withdrew from the deal, who violated
the deal.
This is bad.
This is a big mistake.
This is a violation of international law and
regulations by the United States of America.
However, what you mentioned, the U.S. ambassador
wrote an op-ed in London pressuring the U.K.
to join the U.S. to violate the United Nations
Security Council, and to withdraw from the
deal.
The U.S. is doing such a move with every European
member.
The U.S. is pushing all international community,
all other countries, and this is really something
very strange and perhaps unprecedented.
The United States is the most powerful country
in the world and the most powerful member
of the United Nations Security Council, which
all five permanent members are responsible
for full implementation of the U.N. Security
Council resolutions passed by themselves.
Now, not only the U.S. is violating the deal
itself, but pushing the other international—other
countries, other members of permanent Security
Council, to violate the U.N. Security Council.
This is really something unprecedented and
very, very strange, and at the same time very
dangerous for international peace, order and
security.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about the effects
of the sanctions reimposed last week by President
Trump against Iran?
SEYED HOSSEIN MOUSAVIAN: I would say there
would be an effect on Iranian economy.
Iranians definitely would be harmed.
I have no doubt about it.
Already we have seen some negative consequences
on the Iranian economy.
However, I need to mention perhaps three points.
The first point is the fact that Iran has
been under U.S. sanctions for 40 years.
Therefore, I can say Iranians are the most
experienced country and nation on the U.S.
sanctions.
They have been able to handle the U.S. sanctions,
international sanctions, multilateral sanctions
and survive and continue their strategies,
domestically or regionally or internationally.
The second point is that during the first
term of President Obama, the U.S. was able
to create international consensus to bring
U.N. Security Council sanction Iran.
It means it was international consensus.
Russia agreed.
China agreed.
It was because there were six U.N. resolutions
on the Iranian nuclear program which Iran
was not ready to accept.
However, this time, while the deal has been
achieved, while Iran has signed, the U.S.
signed, the other permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council signed, the
U.N. passed resolution and Iran has fully
complied with every commitment.
Now the U.S. is practically isolated to bringing
new sanctions or re-imposing the sanctions,
and therefore the other countries like Russia,
China, Europe, India, they are not going to
violate the United Nations Security Council
and they are going to continue business with
Iran.
Therefore, I believe President Trump would
not be able to create international consensus
reimposing the new sanctions.
This is the second issue.
The third issue, which is I believe is more
important—Iranian economy is under many,
many difficulties like corruption, like dysfunctionality,
like smuggling, like inflation and they have
a lot of problems.
This has been problem since 1979 when Saddam
invaded Iran, Iran had eight years war, and
after war, the U.S. pushed for many, many
sanctions against Iran.
However, I believe at least 50 percent of
the Iranian domestic economic problem is not
because of the sanctions.
They are because of the domestic dysfunctionality
of different system, but this is the government
or other system.
Therefore, if Iran is going to resist the
sanctions, they would need to address the
dysfunctionalities of their own system.
Therefore, this is one reality about dysfunctionality
of Iranian domestic economic system.
The other reality is that the U.S. is not
going to be able to create international consensus,
and therefore, I believe Iran would be harmed,
but President Trump would fail to capitulate
Iran to come to negotiations under sanctions
and pressures.
AMY GOODMAN: Let me ask you about President
Trump and his increasing threats against Iran.
Last month he tweeted to Iranian President
Hassan Rouhani, ”NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE
UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES
THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY
HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE.”
This was in all caps.
Later, National Security Advisor John Bolton
doubled down, saying, “President Trump told
me that if Iran does anything at all to the
negative, they will pay a price like few countries
have ever paid before.”
This comes after, in May, Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo using his first policy address
as secretary of state to threaten Iran with
the strongest sanctions in history.
This is what he said:
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO: We will apply
unprecedented financial pressure on the Iranian
regime.
The leaders in Tehran will have no doubt about
our seriousness.
Thanks to our colleagues at the Department
of Treasury, sanctions are going back in full
effect and new ones are coming.
Last week, we imposed sanctions on the head
of Iran’s Central Bank and other entities
that were funneling money to the IRGC Quds
Force.
They were also providing money to Hezbollah
and other terrorist organizations.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo.
Ambassador Seyed Hossein Mousavian, talk about
what this means and also the possibility that
President Trump might meet with Rouhani in
a kind of side meeting in New York at the
U.N. General Assembly when world leaders come.
SEYED HOSSEIN MOUSAVIAN: Let me respond to
your questions.
You have two questions.
The first one is about threatening.
I believe threatening is really bad, is against
the United Nation charter.
Whether if Iran is threatening the U.S. or
the U.S. is threatening the Iranians, this
is a clear violation of the U.N. charter.
However, the fact is that President Trump
has started to threaten Iran.
The first threatening was violation of the
nuclear deal, violation of the United Nations
Security Council resolution, violation of
11 resolutions of the IAEA, International
Atomic Energy Agency.
The second threat came by President Trump
administration was the official statement
by John Bolton and Pompeo for regime change
in Iran.
They frequently mention that they are after
regime change in Iran.
The third threat from the U.S. side was when
the U.S. said they are going to bring Iranian
oil export to zero.
Therefore, I think already President Trump
started, clicked the trend of threatening
by regime change strategy, by all options
on the table, including literally a strike
on Iran by sanctioning Iran, by violating
the nuclear deal, and by, for the first time
it was a statement from the United States
of America to say that they are going to bring
Iranian oil export to zero.
Even during the war, Saddam’s invasion of
Iran, 1980 to 1988, when the U.S. was supporting
Saddam in war against Iran, never the U.S.
said that “I’m going to bring Iranian
oil export to zero.”
That’s why I believe President Trump has
gone beyond threatening Iran.
President Trump publicly has announced economic
war, political war with Iran, short of military
war.
Therefore, Iranians also they would respond
and they would threaten the U.S. by closing
the Strait of Hormuz in order not to let any
other country to export oil if Iran is not
permitted to export oil.
That is why a threat is [inaudible] came for
the first time from the U.S. side.
Now, about your second question, whether any
negotiation would be possible or not.
My first response is that while Iran and the
U.S. already agreed on a deal and the U.S.
violated it, how Iranians they can trust the
U.S. to enter a new negotiation?
Let’s say there would be a new negotiation.
Let’s say there would be an agreement with
President Trump.
Who can guarantee the next U.S. president
would not come and would not violate it?
President Obama agreed.
It was not bilateral agreement; it was an
international agreement.
It had U.N. resolution.
Despite of all this, President Trump, after
Obama, publicly said it was a bad mistake
and, “Oh, I am going to kill it.”
How the U.S. can assure Iranians if there
is a negotiation, if there is an agreement,
the next U.S. president is not going to do
what President Trump did with Obama’s negotiation?
This is the first question.
Second, what is the base?
President Trump, if he really wants a normal
relation with Iran, then we have three criteria.
The first criteria is a Treaty of Amity between
Iran and the U.S. signed 1955, which is for
economic relations and consular rights.
Yes, Iran and the U.S., they have many problem
about their citizens in Iran, in the U.S.,
and there is already a treaty between Iran
and the U.S. resolving all consular and citizen
issues.
Yes, President Trump is willing to have a
share of the nuclear deal, to have economic
share, to have some share for the U.S., but
1955 treaty has defined excellent economic
relations between Iran and the U.S.
Iran recently has filed a lawsuit against
the new sanctions imposed by the U.S. at the
International Court in Hague, based on Treaty
of Amity, 1955.
When Iran is filing a lawsuit against the
U.S. based on this amity treaty, it means
Iran practically recognizes this amity.
Now, this can be a criteria number one for
President Trump to go back to the Treaty of
Amity 1955 between Iran and the U.S.
The second is 1981 accord between Iran and
the U.S. After 25 years of U.S. support for
shah in Iran, dictatorship dominating Iran,
there was a revolution.
Iranians took some Americans as hostages in
Iran.
There was a big problem.
Ultimately, Iran and the U.S. in 1981 met
each other in Algeria and they signed an accord
defining how Iran and the U.S. can have normal
relations based on mutual respect and noninterference.
This accord was signed between Iran and the
U.S. Right after the signature, Iran freed
the hostages and the U.S., rather than implementing
this accord for a normal relation with Iran,
the U.S. cut the relation with Iran and went
to support Saddam Hussein invading Iran, participated
in a war against Iran.
The third criteria is the nuclear deal, signed
by the U.S., approved by United Nations Security
Council.
President Trump should tell Iranian which
of these treaties, agreements, accords, are
going to be criteria for the future of Iran
and the U.S.
I think Iran and the U.S. already they have
two major accords, which really can create
a new relation, can be foundation for a new
relation between Iran and the U.S., but President
Trump should assure Iran about the basis,
about the foundation, about the criteria.
The U.S. violated 1955 Treaty of Amity, the
U.S. violated 1985 accord, and the U.S. violated
the nuclear deal 2015.
Then what?
AMY GOODMAN: What about President Trump threatening
any country that does business with Iran,
saying the U.S. won’t do business with them?
SEYED HOSSEIN MOUSAVIAN: This is exactly what
I said, a new and unprecedented phenomenon
in international relations, because the nuclear
deal has—it clearly states in the nuclear—I
mean, you would see in the nuclear deal stating
that all member, all signatories are committed
to facilitate normal economic relation with
Iran.
Therefore, based on the nuclear deal, all
signatories—Germany, Europeans, U.K., France,
Russia, China, and all other countries, including
the U.S.-which is the signatory of the deal,
is responsible for facilitating normal economic
relation of other countries, between other
countries and Iran.
Now, the U.S. withdrew from the deal, violated
that agreement, imposed new sanctions.
This is one big issue.
The United Nations Security Council is violating
its own resolution, the U.N. resolution.
And the second unprecedented phenomenon is
that the U.S. is pushing the other member
states of United Nations Security Council
to violate United Nations Security Council
resolution to stop business with Iran.
Therefore, the U.S. also should say, should
tell its own people, international community—is
really the United States of America responsible
for implementation of United Nations Security
Council resolution or blocking of implementation
of United Nations Security Council resolutions?
AMY GOODMAN: Ambassador Seyed Hossein Mousavian,
as you teach at Princeton University, what
do you think is the greatest misconception
Americans have about Iran?
SEYED HOSSEIN MOUSAVIAN: Iran and the U.S.,
they’ve had no relation for 40 years.
Therefore, it is normal, it is natural that
there are many misunderstandings, miscalculations,
misperceptions on the American side and even
on the Iranian side, to be fair.
Iranians also they really cannot understand
exactly what is going on in the U.S.
The realities of United States is not well-known
to Iranians.
And more, the realities of Iranian domestic
situation, political situation is not known
to Americans.
Unfortunately, the President Trump administration
has relied on enemies of Iran like terrorist
groups of MEK, in Washington, getting their
agenda from these terrorist groups.
They are a terrorist group like ISIS, like
Al-Qaeda.
The biggest I think misperception and misunderstanding
is that they think Iran is after destabilizing
the region, while Iran is really after stabilizing
the region because a dis-stable region, Iran
would be the first or among the most important
countries to suffer.
Iran really has invested in Iraq and Syria
to fight ISIS in order to bring stability.
Iran cooperated with the United States of
America 2005 after the U.S. announced the
War on Terror and attacked Afghanistan.
Iran shaked hands with the United States to
cooperate with the U.S. to fight [inaudible]
and Taliban in Afghanistan.
And after the fall of Saddam, practically
Iranian allies, they supported, they cooperated
with the U.S. to bring a new structure in
Iraq which was based on the rule of majority,
power-sharing, free election, new constitution.
It was exactly what Iran and the U.S. experienced
in Afghanistan in a joint cooperation, Iran
and the U.S. experienced in Iraq, in a joint
cooperation, and they have been fighting ISIS
together, despite of all animosities and hostilities.
Therefore, this is very important for the
United States of America to understand what
a real, legitimate security concern Iran has
in the region in order to understand Iranian
regional behavior.
The second big misunderstanding on the U.S.
policy is that all administrations of the
United States of America, they had the dual
track policy, pressure and sanction, coercion
strategy, and at the same time, asking for
negotiation.
They were thinking Iran would capitulate under
pressures and sanctions and they would come
to the negotiation table and they would accept
whatever the United States is asking.
This has been experience for 40 years by every
administration, by the Democrat and Republican,
and all have failed.
And now the main U.S. concern today, after
40 years of military war, economic war, political
war, intelligence war, covert war, cyber war
against Iran—now the main U.S. complaint
is that why Iran is the most powerful, most
influential country in the region?
Now I am telling President Trump, if the United
States has experienced every coercion strategy
against Iran and failed after 40 years, now
why you are going to experience again the
policies which already has failed?
Therefore, it is better to go back to the
treaties already signed between Iran and the
U.S.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to thank you so much for
being with us, Seyed Hossein Mousavian, Middle
East Security and Nuclear Policy Specialist
at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson
School of Public and International Affairs.
Served as spokesperson for Iran in its nuclear
negotiations with the European Union from
2003 to 2005.
Author of The Iranian Nuclear Crisis: A Memoir
and, Iran and the United States: An Insider’s
View on the Failed Past and the Road to Peace.
When we come back, as more than 100 wildfires
rage across the U.S., we go to Colorado to
speak with two protesters who interrupted
a speech by the most investigated secretary
of the Trump administration currently sitting.
That’s Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
They asked why he refuses to talk about the
link between fires and climate change.
Stay with us.
