AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh, with
Part 2 of our conversation with Rebecca Solnit—Rebecca
Solnit, the historian, the essayist, the writer,
the activist, her acclaimed essay “Men Explain
Things to Me” celebrating its 10th anniversary
this month.
In fact, she’s in New York; tonight she’ll
be doing a big event at Cooper Union.
Among her books, Hope in the Dark and, most
recently, Mother of All Questions.
She’s contributing editor to Harper’s,
where she’s the first woman to regularly
write the “Easy Chair” column.
I want to ask you about that.
First woman to write the “Easy Chair”
column?
REBECCA SOLNIT: You know, it’s really embarrassing
being Jackie Robinson in the 21st century.
When I think about Harper’s, it’s like,
“Why didn’t they hire Willa Cather in
1911?
Why didn’t they hire Hannah Arendt in 1950?”
But it took a while, but there I am, in a
chair that isn’t always easy.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And what about this, your
recent book, The Mother of All Questions?
What’s that about?
REBECCA SOLNIT: It’s another anthology of
feminist essays, with a major new essay in
it that hadn’t been published before called
“A Short History of Silence,” looking
more broadly at this question of how pretty
much everyone in this culture get silenced
one way or another in the kind of reciprocal
silences of men and women, and the strategies,
from the kind of deep cultural imperatives
to, you know, things like, as we were talking
about, nondisclosure agreements that silence
women.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: But what is this, reciprocal
silences between men and women?
How are men silenced?
Is that what it suggests?
REBECCA SOLNIT: There’s a beautiful line
by bell hooks, I would have to flip through
the book to dig up, about how men—the first
violence of violent men is against themselves,
you know, something that I think is really
important, that before you can commit violence
against someone else, you have to have killed
off something within yourself, some of the
empathy, connectedness, that I think is inherent
in undamaged human beings.
So, and then, more broadly, all the things
men can’t say, aren’t supposed to feel,
aren’t supposed to be.
You know, men also have strict codes of enforcement
about what they can do and say, you know,
which a lot of them—speaking as somebody
who grew up among gay men in San Francisco—have
broken free of, but a lot of them haven’t.
AMY GOODMAN: Could you read to us?
You are a wonderful writer.
Can you read to us from The Mother of All
Questions?
Again, Rebecca Solnit, writer, historian,
activist, her latest book, The Mother of All
Questions, with new essays in it.
REBECCA SOLNIT: “If the right to speak,
if having credibility, if being heard is a
kind of wealth, that wealth is now being redistributed.
There has long been an elite with audibility
and credibility, an underclass of the voiceless.
As the wealth is redistributed, the stunned
incomprehension of the elites erupts over
and over again, a fury and a disbelief that
this woman or child dared to speak up, that
people deigned to believe her, that her voice
counts for something, that her truth may end
a powerful man’s reign.
These voices, heard, upend power relations.”
And I wrote that before the Harvey Weinstein
incident and used Dominique Strauss-Kahn,
which I found so compelling when it happened
in 2011, you know, and how it played out,
in both the good and bad ways—the ways that
she was attacked, the way that she nevertheless,
like Anita Hill, who was also attacked, you
know, exerted tremendous power, and in some
ways transformative power.
So…
“Who is heard and who is not defines the
status quo.
Those who embody it, often at the cost of
extraordinary silences with themselves, move
to the center; those who embody what is not
heard or what violates those who rise on silence
are cast out.
By redefining whose voices are valued, we
redefine our society and its values.”
And, you know, this is such a broad thing,
whether you’re talking about the Coalition
of Immokalee Workers, which has given a voice
to undocumented farmworkers, about these kids,
a million strong, standing up and making children’s
voices heard, voices against gun violence
or this new phase of the women’s movement
or so many of the other voices we’ve heard.
There is an extraordinary redistribution of
power going on in this moment.
And I find it pretty thrilling and kind of
hopeful, despite everything.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, in the piece we discussed
in Part 1 of the interview, your Harper’s
piece, one of the things that you also say
is that “when the powerful insist that nobody
knows, what they mean is that their acts are
witnessed by nobodies.
Nobody knows.”
So, can you talk about that, the importance
of that?
And also, especially in the context of what—the
incident that you just mentioned, Dominique
Strauss-Kahn, the IMF director at the time,
in 2011, when he assaulted this maid in a
hotel in New York City, talk about the power
differential there and how, of course, he
must have perceived her as nobody.
REBECCA SOLNIT: Yeah, there’s a wonderful
essay by David Graeber in The Guardian, that
came out, you know, in the wake of this #MeToo
moment, about his mother’s own sort of trauma
with sexual harassment in a New York theater,
you know, in the mid-20th century, where he
talks about seeing another story, you know,
being a man who wasn’t that, you could say,
“woke”—seeing another story about a
hotel worker being assaulted by a powerful
man the same week, thinking, “Is this a
weird coincidence?” and then realizing,
like, “This must happen all the time, and
we just don’t hear about it.”
And you see, whether it’s Donald Trump saying
the 19 women charging him with sexual assault
and harassment are all liars; the way people
insisted that the women coming forward to
talk about Bill Cosby were all making stuff
up, so that we’re being told that Cosby’s
word had more power than five women, 10 women,
20 women, eventually 60 women; and Dominique
Strauss-Kahn, Weinstein.
And there is an assumption that I can discredit
this woman, no one will listen to them, I
can shame them into silence, I can sue them
into silence with legal threats.
The Stormy Daniels case is pretty amazing.
I have so much admiration for her fearlessness
and her wit.
And she is going after the most powerful man
in the world, and she may bring him down.
I understand other women are emerging with
similar stories, in addition to those 19 women
I mentioned before.
And she’s saying, “No, I don’t have
any reason to keep this secret, and I will
not be silent.”
And you can see that assumption—that Trump
did this on an assumption of silence, and
that when that’s broken, the powerful are
scared.
And that happens—you know, I write a lot
about feminism, but I always see it as analogous
to other situations of inequality, of unequal
voices.
And, you know, you hear about people who are
considered to be low-ranking, the people who
are the servants, people—you know, children,
people who—you know, police against people
they’ve arrested.
And we’ve heard this so many times with
Black Lives Matter, the police saying, “This
is what happened,” and it’s partly thanks
to cellphone video that we’ve been able
to finally convince a lot of people who weren’t
willing to believe the others that actually
the police lie a lot, and this person was
shot in the back, that this person did not
have a weapon, this person was not posing
a threat.
You know, and I think that there’s a kind
of democracy of voices that creates a regime
of truth, and an inequality that creates a
kind of regime of lies, and that some of—as
power differential shifts, economy of truth
and voice shifts, in ways that are pretty
fascinating.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about how these movements
feed on each other.
You have the immigrants’ rights movement,
President Trump, you know, talking about how
he loves the young people protected by DACA,
and then he withdraws the protections of DACA
from them.
You, of course, have the #MeToo movement,
of course the videotape of Trump saying, “I
can’t help myself.
I just grab women”—right?—”grab their
genitals.”
REBECCA SOLNIT: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: You have, right now, the students
from Parkland.
We just learned about another young woman
who was killed, a high school student in Alabama,
so people are saying people should be silent
for 18 minutes instead of 17.
Let’s not forget that black children are
killed 10 times more often than white children
by guns, people using guns.
But one movement after another, the kind of
intensity that is building in the era of Trump.
REBECCA SOLNIT: You know, I think that all
of these are movements of democratization,
to bring everyone to the table, to give everyone
a voice, to treat everyone with respect.
That goes for the Coalition of Immokalee Workers,
which I’ve admired immensely for 15 years
or more, and, you know, for Black Lives Matter,
for the incredible resurgence of Native voices
around Standing Rock and other pipeline movements.
AMY GOODMAN: An interesting thing on this
point, I was just a forum in Brooklyn where
a Native American historian was saying, “Let’s
not forget that the #NoDAPL movement, that
gained its strength under Obama, who was very
late to this game.”
The Black Lives Matter movement also built
during the Democratic years, the years when
the Democratic Party was in the ascension,
you know, when President Obama—
REBECCA SOLNIT: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —the first African-American
president, was president.
REBECCA SOLNIT: You know, presidents don’t
fix everything, you know, that movements do.
And it’s interesting now, because we have
a regime that’s kind of the most sloppily
vicious we’ve ever had.
But I don’t feel like they’re winning.
I do see these extraordinary movements, sometimes
symbolic things, like the replacement of a
Confederate statue with a statue of Harriet
Tubman last week or this week, and, you know,
Richard Spencer being kind of outshouted off
college campuses, kind of giving up on his
strategy.
You know, I see so much stuff where they currently
hold the official power, but there’s not
official power that matters, a cultural power
that’s coming.
And two things that have made me so hopeful
this—well, hopeful for a while, is the fact
that 50 percent of the people under 18 in
this country are not white.
The Republican Party’s grasp on power is
failing it, because they are the power of
white grievance that depend on voter suppression.
The voting rights movements are taking away
that suppression.
And then, also, just a new study came out
that said that white Protestants are only
43 percent of this country.
My whole life, I’ve been told that like,
well, white Protestants are the dominant culture,
and ultimately they’re going to have their
way, and the rest of us are just on the fringe
and are going to have to defer to them.
But that’s not actually true anymore.
They’re only 43 percent of the population.
And we are entering a culture that is going
to—that is already more diverse, in which
white people are not going to be the majority
for long.
I’m in California, which is a white minority
state.
And, you know, I see this rising cultural
power.
I see the way that the kids coming out of
Parkland, who have reached out to kind of
urban youth facing other kinds of gun violence,
you know, already are intersectional, already
get that you can—when you talk about violence,
you need to talk about race and gender and
class, as well.
And I think that there is this democratization,
this horizontalism, this inclusion, and this
rejection of violence, which is itself a kind
of authoritarianism that I have a right to
determine whether you live or die, I have
to a right to impose on you in this ultimate
way.
So I think that there is an extraordinary
transformation of values and of voices that
we’re seeing now, that may prevail.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I want to go back specifically
to something you said about the #MeToo movement.
In a piece for Oprah.com, you wrote, quote,
“One of the greatest dangers is that in
resisting your enemy, or defeating him, you
become him.
This is why, though punishment of sexual harassers
may be necessary and appropriate, punitiveness
and retaliation will not take us where we
need to go.”
Could you explain why you think that and what
you think needs to take us where we need to
go?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Yeah, and a lot of anti-feminists
like to think that feminists are just man-haters
who are punitive with no sense of proportion,
as some of the recent arguments have had it.
But I think, actually, our arguments have
been very different, that in fact the problems
we face are cultural problems.
They’re deeply entrenched in the culture.
It’s not like you can fire these 36 men
or these 365 men or these 179,000 men, and
we’re going to solve the problem of sexual
harassment.
These things are built into a culture that
values us differently, that gives us different
levels of access and power.
And the only—you know, and for me, the transformation
that will matter is undoing the desire to
do these things and undoing the desire to
use guns as symbols of masculinity, the desire
to—you know, to rape people, the desire
to brutalize people.
And, you know, I see that transformation at
work in the way people are raising their children,
boys and girls, in the ways that we’re thinking
about gender and undoing some of the binaries,
and the sort of delegitimization of violence
that’s been going on steadily for the last
half-century.
And so, it’s a big, deep cultural project
that’s well underway and that may, in centuries
to come, to look like a huge revolution, and
a revolution the way they happen in this era,
which isn’t necessarily regime change, but
transformation of things that are even bigger,
deeper and more powerful.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, what’s your response
to people who have been critical of the #MeToo
movement, who have been saying that it’s
really—it’s gone too far, that it’s
leveled all the distinctions between various
forms of violence against women, and at this
point it may even be doing a disservice by
encompassing too much?
REBECCA SOLNIT: You know, I won’t say that
I—well, I think some of the allegations
are more serious than others.
But I think it’s—what’s gone too far
is misogyny, because a woman is raped every
minute or two in this country, a woman is
beaten about every 11 seconds in this country,
more than a woman a day is murdered in sort
of—by partners or former partners, and,
you know, other forms of harassment are epidemic.
You know, is that this movement will have
gone far enough when these things are no longer
something that impacts women’s lives every
day and, you know, curtails freedom and power
and confidence and equality.
So it hasn’t gone nearly far enough.
That doesn’t mean that there isn’t sort
of mistakes and sloppiness and confusion and
etc., and that every person involved is perfect
and clear and totally on the mark.
AMY GOODMAN: The connection—
REBECCA SOLNIT: But—
AMY GOODMAN: The connection between mass shootings
and violence against women?
So often it has been found that those usually
white solitary men who have been involved
in these mass shootings have either abused,
killed, beaten a girlfriend, a mother, a partner.
Even the shooter who we actually know so little
about, astoundingly, in Las Vegas, that, you
know, shot from the Mandalay Bay hotel down
at this country music concert, the Starbucks
workers saying he used to come in; they dreaded
him coming in every day with his partner and
berating her as they would get coffee.
From that to, you know, the—Adam Lanza at
Sandy Hook, the first one he killed was his
mother, then he went to the school.
REBECCA SOLNIT: And the guy who massacred
50 people at the nightclub in Florida, in
Orlando, had—
AMY GOODMAN: Omar Mateen at Pulse.
REBECCA SOLNIT: Yes, also had a history of
domestic violence.
And the guy who murdered women at—people
at the Planned Parenthood in Colorado a few
years ago.
You know, I think that the—
AMY GOODMAN: And now the latest, the three
people, white men, who were just arrested
for the attack on the Minnesota mosque, that
happened quite a while ago, also an attempted
attack on a women’s health clinic in Illinois,
one of them, a sheriff’s deputy, had submitted
plans to try to get the contract to build
Trump’s wall on the southern border.
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, my god.
Well, there are so many connections—and
we’ve covered some of them—that there
is a strong link between domestic violence
and mass shooters, although mass shootings
are rare, and domestic violence is shockingly
common.
But I think there’s an—there is, in violence,
an authoritarianism.
We talk about other things, about the psychology
and etc.
But the assumption that I have the right to
control you, I have the right to punish you,
what I want matters, what you want doesn’t.
And violence is a kind of voice of asserting
what should be and of erasing other people’s
voices, either by refusing to let them say
no, you know, to self-determine, or by annihilating
their voice altogether by shooting them.
And in the Bay Area, we just had a terrible
shooting of three women at a veterans’ facility,
including Jennifer Gonzales, who was six months
pregnant, by an enraged veteran who took them
hostage.
And, you know, I went online to say this shouldn’t
happen, this is an epidemic.
And I just did a search with a few words and
was able to find dozens of stories that weren’t
reported about, you know, spousal murder,
murder-suicides, women being murdered, one
of whom’s body was burnt, etc.
We have an epidemic, and it is horrific.
The fact that we’re finally talking about
it, which we were not five or six years ago—we
were not really supposed to say that there’s
a problem with men, that this is about gender.
We were not connecting the dots.
And the fact that we are—and I hang out
with doctors a lot.
I always feel like diagnosis is the beginning
of treatment, and sometimes of cure.
And I feel like one of the breakthroughs is
we’ve finally been allowed to publicly,
collectively, audibly diagnose what the problem
is.
And that’s part of moving forward to change
the situation.
And that’s exciting.
AMY GOODMAN: What is the mother—what is
the mother of all questions?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, god, that’s—you know,
it’s the intrusive questions women get asked—Why
aren’t you married?
Why don’t you have children?—that are
really sort of saying like this is what all
women should be.
It’s the punitive questions trying to herd
you, punish you for not being—for not conforming,
shame you for not conforming, and, you know,
question your dissent, and—you know, and
about the fact that often for a woman there
is no right answer.
There’s that famous scene in The Breakfast
Club where they want to know if she’s a
virgin, and she bursts out that if she says
yes, they’ll shame her; if she says no,
they’ll shame her.
The mother of all questions is the state of
being a woman, to which there is no right
answer except refusing the framing of those
questions.
AMY GOODMAN: And the 80 books no woman should
read?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, that was a really fun
thing I did for the wonderful website LitHub.
Esquire had this awful piece, which they’ve
since apologized for and amended, called “80
Books Every Man Should Read,” 79 of which
were by men.
And they weren’t about what literature should
do, I think, which is to make us more empathic,
to make us understand the experience of people
who aren’t like us, of other races and genders,
etc.
They were really books chosen and that instructed
you on how to be a man, and the descriptions
were kind of embarrassingly macho, as though
books, overall, helping you kind of hunker
down in your little bunker of machismo.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Could you give us a couple
of examples?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, my god.
They talked about The Grapes of Wrath and
said it’s all about the titty.
And—was I not supposed to say that?
You know, and they said something kind of
gross about Flannery O’Connor, who was the
only woman in the list of 80 writers, and
things like that.
So I joked about 80 books no women should
read, because there are a lot of books that
I grew up with, I think that are still being
taught, that really tell women that they’re
lesser than, their stories are not central,
that they’re playthings or ornaments or
handmaidens to the hero’s journey, which
is the real story.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And what are a couple of examples
of those?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, Lolita, in which the fact
that it’s a book about child rape is often
de-emphasized, which prompted me to write
“Men Explain Lolita to Me” as a sequel,
when I got a lot of blowback for that.
Pretty much everything by Ernest Hemingway,
Henry Miller and, you know, what’s called
the mid-century misogynists, books by people
like Philip Roth and Saul Bellow and so much
more.
And, you know, there’s even—
AMY GOODMAN: And your favorite authors?
REBECCA SOLNIT: Oh, who are my favorite authors?
Oh, god, that’s, you know, Virginia Woolf,
George Orwell, Arundhati Roy, James Baldwin,
Subcomandante Marcos, who I always thought
should have gotten the Nobel for Literature,
and so many more.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, on that note, I want to
thank you very much for being with us.
Rebecca Solnit, writer, historian, activist.
Her acclaimed essay “Men Explain Things
to Me” is celebrating its 10th anniversary
this month.
She’s the author of, oh, 20 books, including
Hope in the Dark and, most recently, The Mother
of All Questions.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
To see Part 1 of our discussion, go to democracynow.org.
