AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to go back to Clara
Long to talk about the new report that she
has just come out with.
Clara Long is a senior researcher at Human
Rights Watch.
Code Red—that’s the name of this explosive
Human Rights Watch report released this week
that exposes dangerously substandard medical
care in ICE detention facilities around the
country.
More people died in immigration detention
in 2017 than any year since 2009.
Physicians reviewed 15 deaths in immigration
detention from December 2015 to April 2017,
determining that substandard medical care
contributed or led to eight of the 15 deaths.
Here is a video Human Rights Watch produced
to accompany the report.
You hear first from the report’s author,
our guest Clara Long, then Dr. Robert Cohen,
who investigated ICE medical reports of deaths
in custody.
This is Clara Long.
CLARA LONG: Moises Tino Lopez had first one
and then a second seizure in immigration detention.
Our medical expert said that the first seizure
and certainly the second seizure should have
prompted a high level of care and concern.
That did not happen, and he ultimately had
a third seizure that was fatal.
DR.
ROBERT COHEN: My task was to say, “Was this
death preventable?”
And in the majority of cases that I reviewed,
the deaths were preventable if the medical
and correctional staff had done the right
thing.
CLARA LONG: In the seven-year period 2010
to 2017, 74 people have died in immigration
detention.
In 52 of those cases, we been able to examine
some government records.
In 23 cases, poor medical care contributed
to the fatal outcome.
DR.
ROBERT COHEN: The major problems were inadequate
staffing, not having doctors on site as often
as you might need to, not having medications
available, delays in diagnosis and delays
in access to emergency care.
CLARA LONG: Back in 1994, 6,800 people were
locked up on any given night in immigration
detention.
But that number has rapidly increased over
the last two administrations.
Right now, over 40,000 people a night are
in detention centers around the country.
The Trump administration has asked for funding
to increase that number to 52,000 people a
night by the end of 2019.
They hope to use the system to deport people
rapidly and without due process.
Unfortunately, even short periods of time
inside detention centers with dangerous conditions
like poor medical care can lead to very serious
consequences.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Clara Long, senior researcher
at Human Rights Watch, the author of the report
Code Red: The Fatal Consequences of Dangerously
Substandard Medical Care in Immigration Detention.
Clara, continue with what you’re saying
in this report.
It is terrifying.
CLARA LONG: It’s terrifying.
What we found is that ICE, the agency that
is detaining, as we said, now 40,000 people
a day and wants to expand, cannot provide
adequately for the safety of the people that
it holds.
These deaths are really the tip of the iceberg.
One thing I want to emphasize is that although
our medical experts found that eight of the
15 deaths—these recent deaths that we were
able to review—were ones in which poor care
contributed or led to the fatal outcome, in
14 of the 15 cases, there was clear evidence
that ICE facilities and medical care professionals
were involved in dangerous practices that
could have caused death.
AMY GOODMAN: Like?
CLARA LONG: Like in many of these facilities,
you have licensed practical nurses, people
who have had about 18 months of training post-high
school who are charged with making medical
diagnoses and managing very serious conditions.
In one of the cases we reviewed, a man had
new onset congestive heart failure.
He wasn’t able to see a doctor.
Instead, he saw one of these licensed practical
nurses who told him to drink more water—something
we hear a lot from people who are detained,
as the—it’s the panacea.
In the case of congestive heart failure, that
can actually make it worse and lead to a fatal
outcome, because your heart is not able to
clear the fluid out of your body.
In other cases, we saw this botched emergency
response, these indifferent attitudes.
For example, Mr. Jose Azurdia, who died in
Adelanto Detention Facility in 2015, began
to have the symptoms of a heart attack.
He had chest pain.
He was sweating.
A nurse actually entered the unit for another
reason and was told, “This man is sick.
He’s vomiting.”
She said, “I don’t want to see him because
I don’t want to get sick.”
And that started this two-hour delay for him
to get to the hospital, to get care for this
heart attack.
Our medical expert said, “When you’re
having a heart attack…”—this is probably
obvious to everyone—”…time is muscle.”
So the more time that you don’t get treatment
for a heart attack, the more of your heart
muscle dies and the harder it is to survive.
AMY GOODMAN: Tell us more of these stories
of the people who you found whose deaths were
directly a result of the lack of medical care
or the horrible medical care within the ICE
detention facilities.
CLARA LONG: Sure.
We mentioned in the video a man named Moises
Tino Lopez.
He was 23 years old.
Has a family, children.
And he had a seizure in Hall County Jail in
Nebraska.
The staff there just took his mattress and
put it on the floor.
That’s all they did.
They didn’t send him to a doctor.
He ended up seeing a nurse and was prescribed
seizure medication, but there seemed to be
some sort of—there was a language barrier.
There was sort of unexplained reasons why
nurses didn’t follow up on him not taking
that seizure medication.
He had another seizure.
They again did not respond, instead putting
him in an isolation cell where he seized again
and died.
These are people who are beloved members of
communities, who are swept up into this dangerous
system.
And if you’ll allow me, one of the things
that is really worrying about this executive
order and the moment we’re in now in terms
of the end of so-called mass family separation
is that we’re starting a family incarceration
crisis.
We’re putting more and more vulnerable people
into this dangerous system.
Already the Trump administration has begun
doing the generalized detention of pregnant
women, detaining people who are seeking asylum,
even people who are coming in at ports of
entry trying to do everything right, keeping
them in prolonged periods throughout the pendency
of their cases.
The exposure is just growing and growing to
this dangerous system, which makes these findings
so very worrying, because more and more people
will be exposed to conditions that very predictably,
in words of our independent experts, cause
death.
AMY GOODMAN: And how long on average were
these people being held in ICE detention?
And explain the facilities.
I think very few people understand all the
different layers of prisons, detention centers,
tent cities.
You have mothers who have been brought up
from the border separated from their children—they
are in a Washington state prison, yet these
are not criminals.
CLARA LONG: Yeah.
It is a patchwork of facilities that are flung
out across the United States, often times
in very isolated areas where it is difficult
for medical professionals or lawyers to reach.
As you say, they include county jails.
A majority of them are private prison companies
that have been stood up sometimes specifically
for immigration detention.
And in recent weeks, we’ve seen the Trump
administration put about 1,500 people now
into federal prison, which raises a whole
other set of concerns about how ICE is supposed
to ensure oversight of those conditions and
have access to those people when it can’t
even keep its own house in order.
You asked about the range of detention.
It’s interesting because we see these dangerous
conditions affect people at many different
amounts of time in detention.
One case that comes to mind is a man named
Igor Zyazin.
He was a Russian national who crossed into
the U.S. in 2016.
He carried with him in his backpack—he came
with his wife—he carried with him his heart
medication and some information about his
condition.
But they put that—locked it up in his property,
never examined it and did not allow him to
access it.
When he was detained at the San Luis Regional
Detention Center, he began to have, again,
chest pain.
A nurse, a licensed practical nurse, said,
“OK, well I’ll give you some nitroglycerin.”
Chest pain in someone with heart trouble should
prompt nitroglycerin and a call to 911.
She did not do that.
Instead, some correctional officers there
said, “Actually, I don’t know if we want
to have this really sick guy in our facility.”
So they decided to sort of pack him up and
actually put him in a van and drive him four
hours to another facility, where they thought
there was better medical care.
There, he did get an EKG.
He did see a doctor.
But even before that EKG was read, he had
had another heart attack and died in his cell
there.
AMY GOODMAN: Wow.
Well, on Thursday, dozens of parents and kids
protested at the offices of Thomas R. Decker,
the new New York field office director for
ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations in
protest of the Trump administration’s “zero
tolerance” policy.
This is some of the voices of the kids and
parents there.
ISABEL VALERA: My name is Isabel Valera, and
I’m here because I think that it is unfair
that children are getting locked up for no
reason when they’re not even breaking the
law.
ALEZA SUMMIT: I think this is clearly a moment
when many, many people have gotten outraged
about the family separation issue.
It is so emotional.
I think the big question is now, how can we
take that wave of outrage and redirect it
or continue to focus it on U.S. policy around
immigration more broadly?
JAMARI BURROWES DAVIS: I’m Jamari Burrowes
Davis and I’m eight years old.
Young immigrants should be free to stay with
their parents and their parents should be
free to stay with their kids.
No kid should be in jail.
MYRNA HAIDAR: My name is Myrna Haidar.
Last week, I was here for my own immigration
interview in this same very building, and
it’s really—I’m feeling intensely to
be here again, vulnerable, where my application
is not really fully approved yet.
But I am with my American children, and in
some weird way, they are giving me strength
to be here, so we can fight for other children
and other families.
Incarceration in general sucks, and it usually
impacts only people of color or people who
don’t have citizenship or who are poor.
JOJO GELMAN: My name is Jojo Gelman and I’m
10 years old.
I am protesting that people and their kids
are getting sent to jail because they’re
from a different country.
My sign says “Get your tiny hands off our
children.”
And the tiny hands person means Donald Trump.
AMY GOODMAN: Those are the voices of children
and parents protesting outside the ICE offices
in New York and inside as well.
Special thanks to Democracy Now's Nat Needham.
It is very important to hear these voices
because these are the voices that are changing
national policy in this country, as the corporate
media interviews the politicians.
And they're critical and making decisions.
It is the protests around this country this
week, the enormous outcry, that has clearly
forced President Trump into retreat.
Now, I want to turn to Virginia Governor Ralph
Northam, who has called for an investigation
after the Associated Press exposé about conditions
at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center.
The AP reported immigrant children as young
as 14 say they were beaten while handcuffed
and locked up for long periods in solitary
confinement, left nude and shivering in concrete
cells.
Clara Long, can you respond to this?
CLARA LONG: This is a detention center that’s
within the Office of Refugee Resettlement
network.
So it’s a detention center that’s holding
unaccompanied children, including children
who would be separated—it is called a staff-secure
facility.
So that means it looks a lot like juvenile
detention, juvenile criminal justice detention
in the United States.
You were saying the power of these protests—I
have to tell you, the allegations in that
complaint have been a matter of public record
for over a year now, and something that we
have been following and been very concerned
about, but this is the moment in which people
can hear them, and that is hopeful to me.
The allegations are terrible.
I feel particularly impacted by them because
I actually met a child in Mexico who had been
in that center, independent of—before I
knew of this lawsuit—and told me exactly
the same thing.
That he had seen children shackled and beaten
and tased while he was detained there.
AMY GOODMAN: And what about this news that
we were reporting on yesterday about children
in detention facilities being injected with
drugs and being forced to take drugs?
CLARA LONG: That, again, is of a piece of
these serious concerns, particularly with
the staff—what they call staff-secure portions
of the ORR facilities, in which there does
not seem to be adequate oversight, accountability,
investigation of conditions.
The most important thing to recognize here
also is that under human rights law, children
should not be detained for immigration reasons.
It is simply too harmful for the countervailing
governmental interest.
AMY GOODMAN: The story about Shiloh Treatment
Center in southern Houston where kids held
there forcibly injected with medications that
make them dizzy, listless, obese, even incapacitated.
This according to reports by Reveal.
Meanwhile, according to another Reveal investigation,
taxpayers have paid more than $1.5 billion
over the past four years to companies operating
immigration youth facilities despite facing
accusations of rampant sexual and physical
abuse.
CLARA LONG: Right.
Correct.
AMY GOODMAN: What kind of control is there
over this immigration industrial complex—the
private corporations that are running these
facilities?
Some are also nonprofit.
CLARA LONG: This is why it is so incredibly
important that people who are outraged by
the family separation do not look away now,
because there needs to be increased public
pressure, increased attention to exactly that
question, Amy.
What kind of control is there over these facilities?
Because no one seems to be minding the store
in terms of making sure that people’s rights
are respected.
AMY GOODMAN: Clara Long, thank you for being
with us, senior researcher at Human Rights
Watch, author of the report that we’ll link
to, Code Red: The Fatal Consequences of Dangerously
Substandard Medical Care in Immigration Detention.
This is Democracy Now!.
When we come back, the harrowing story of
an Eritrean man who was held in detention
in Broward County, Florida, terrified if he
was returned to Eritrea he would be killed.
The U.S. deported him.
On his way back, at Cairo airport, he took
his own life.
Stay with us.
