AMY GOODMAN: We begin today’s show looking
at the Trump administration’s ongoing crackdown
against immigrants and asylum seekers.
On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions
announced domestic and gang-related violence
will generally no longer be grounds for asylum,
a far-reaching shift that could affect thousands
of people, particularly women from Central
America fleeing gender-based violence.
On Monday, Sessions chose to reverse the Board
of Immigration Appeals’ grant of asylum
to a Salvadoran domestic violence survivor
known as A.B., who fled to the U.S. for her
life after surviving 15 years of beatings,
rape and death threats from her husband.
In ruling against A.B., Sessions also overturned
a groundbreaking precedent from 2014 in which
the immigration appeals court affirmed that
domestic violence survivors are deserving
of protection.
In that precedent-setting case, the Board
of Immigration Appeals granted asylum to a
Guatemalan woman named Aminta Cifuentes, who
had fled to the United States after being
brutally abused by her husband for years—raped,
beaten, kicked, burned with acid, and punched
so hard in the stomach when she was 8 months
pregnant that her child was born prematurely
with bruises.
As in the case of A.B., the police refused
to intervene to stop the abuse Aminta Cifuentes
was suffering.
But on Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions
ruled against A.B. and overturned the precedent
that had granted Cifuentes asylum, ruling,
quote, “claims by aliens pertaining to domestic
violence or gang violence perpetrated by nongovernmental
actors will not qualify for asylum.”
Immigration advocates and former immigration
judges have denounced Sessions’ announcement.
A group of 15 former immigration judges called
Sessions’ move “an affront to the rule
of law,” writing, quote, “For reasons
understood only by himself, the attorney general
today erased an important legal development
that was universally agreed to be correct,”
they wrote.
Well, for more, we’re joined now in Berkeley,
California, by Karen Musalo, professor of
law, the director of the Center for Gender
and Refugee Studies at the University of California,
Hastings College of Law.
She is one of the attorneys representing Ms.
A.B.
So, talk about Attorney General Jeff Sessions’
ruling on Monday and tell us the story of
your client, A.B.
KAREN MUSALO: Thank you, Amy, for having me
on this morning.
I think it’s really important to look at
this decision both for what it does and what
it doesn’t do, and maybe just to say what
it purports to do.
So, the attorney general is trying to signal,
in very strong terms, to decision-makers—immigration
judges and asylum officers—that these types
of claims don’t meet the legal requirements.
And there’s no doubt that that is the intent
behind this decision.
And it’s very, very concerning for many
reasons.
But those of us who have really read the decision
closely have reached the conclusion that he
is stretching.
So, although he, as you explained, reversed
this 2014 precedent, A-R-C-G-, the case of
Aminta Cifuentes, that established that domestic
violence survivors could be granted asylum,
he reversed that precedent, but there are—you
know, there are 38 years of development of
the legal definition of refugee in—refugees
in U.S. law, and, actually, under a fair application
of the standard, these individuals do qualify
for asylum.
And the reason that I start my remarks with
that is that there are many people who are
just going to be bullied by Sessions, and
Sessions says these are no longer legitimate
cases.
And as lawyers, we know a couple of things,
and one thing is that every case is decided
by a fair application of the law to the facts
of that case.
We don’t rule by fiat.
Sessions is not a king.
He’s appointed himself in this posture to
decide this particular case and set this precedent,
but it is up to decision-makers—immigration
judges, asylum officers, the Board of Immigration
Appeals—to look at each case on the facts
of that case.
And we could go into it more, but there are
many reasons why these cases will qualify
for asylum under a fair application of the
law to the facts.
AMY GOODMAN: And talk about your client, A.B.
Tell us her life story.
KAREN MUSALO: So, as you recounted, she was
brutalized for more than 15 years by a man
who she met, married, had three children with.
And almost immediately after the marriage,
he began to abuse her in horrific ways, by
bashing her head into the wall, threatening
her with guns and knives, beating her, raping
her, threatening to hang her by a rope from
the ceiling when she was pregnant, waking
her up in the middle of the night.
He would come home and just wake her up and
call her a slut or a whore and other degrading,
insulting terms, misogynist terms, tell her
to get out of bed and cook for him.
And finally, when it became too much, she
separated from him and moved a distance of
two or three hours away, in El Salvador.
But he quickly found her whereabouts, sought
her out for continued mistreatment, including
beatings and rape.
Finally, she decided to divorce him.
And immediately after the divorce, he said
to her, “If you think that this frees you
from me, you’re sadly mistaken.
You will always be mine.”
I should add a couple of other facts in there,
is that the police were repeatedly called,
the Salvadoran police, were not responsive.
On two occasions they issued protective orders,
but they actually asked her to serve the protective
orders on her husband.
So you can imagine that somebody who’s being
brutalized, threatened by a powerful man with
weapons, and the police say, “Here’s this
piece of paper.
Go serve it on this person, telling him that
he should leave you alone.”
It’s just absolutely ludicrous.
And on another occasion, the police said to
her, “If you had any dignity, you would
just leave him.”
And another important fact in sort of showing
the government’s absolute lack of response
or complicity is that her brother-in-law—in
other words, the abuser’s brother—was
a police officer.
And he joined in the threats with her husband,
and then her ex-husband, against her, saying,
on some occasions, “You know, you better
be careful.
You don’t know where the bullets are going
to be flying from,” and also threats that
she was going to end up dead, cut up, put
in a plastic bag and thrown in a river.
So I think, after, you know, 15 years, which
included repeated attempts to get protection
from the government, she made the decision
that the only way to save her life was to
flee, and she came to the United States seeking
asylum.
And, Amy, if you’d like, I can also describe
the very sort of bizarre and inappropriate
way in which her case developed, that ended
up with Attorney General Sessions becoming
involved.
AMY GOODMAN: Yes, please do, Professor Musalo.
KAREN MUSALO: Yes.
So, she had the misfortune of appearing in
front of an immigration judge, Judge Stuart
Couch, who is in Charlotte, North Carolina,
who is notorious for his very high denial
rate in asylum cases, close to 86 percent
denial rate, which is really stratospheric.
It’s just so high, so high above the national
average.
And he’s also known for his particular hostility
to claims based on domestic violence.
He repeatedly denies them, using the same
boilerpoint language, and had repeatedly been
reversed on appeal by the Board of Immigration
Appeals.
So, in Ms. A.B.'s case—followed that same
path—he denied her asylum, first claiming
that she wasn't credible, even though she
had corroboration of many of the key aspects
of her claim, but then saying, even if she
were to be credible, she didn’t meet the
refugee definition.
And he went into his sort of very distorted
understanding and application of the refugee
requirements.
So, she appealed her case to the Board of
Immigration Appeals, and the Board of Immigration
Appeals reversed Judge Couch.
And what the Board of Immigration Appeals
said was, basically, these reasons for finding
her not credible have no basis.
They just really are absolutely clearly erroneous.
And she meets the definition under the precedent
of A-R-C-G-, the case of Aminta Cifuentes.
She meets the refugee definition.
And what the board did was went even further
and said, “We order you, Judge Couch, to
grant her asylum.
We’re sending the case back to you so that
the required security check can be done and
a grant of asylum can be entered.”
Goes back to Judge Couch.
He refuses to grant.
He lets it sit and sit and sit and sit for
months.
And then there’s a decision that comes down
in the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, in which
North Carolina is part of that circuit court
of appeals, and it’s a case that has nothing
to do with domestic violence.
And Judge Couch says—he seizes upon this
and says, “See, this shows that her case
is no longer legitimate.
It no longer meets the legal requirements.”
And he tries to send it back to the board
for the board to reconsider its grant, which
is sort of like a bizarre, rogue thing to
do.
The board just ordered him to grant asylum.
He tries to send it back to the board, but
it actually never arrives at the board.
It sort of sits in Charlotte.
And then, for reasons that have yet to be
explained to us, Attorney General Sessions
learns about this case and exercises this
regulatory right that he has to appoint himself
to—it’s called certifying a case to himself,
where he can take any decision of the Board
of Immigration Appeals, appoint himself as
a judge to that case and reach a decision
on it.
So, he reached out.
He essentially took the Board of Immigration
Appeals’ grant of asylum to Ms. A.B.
And then, you know, he took the case—I don’t
remember exactly, it might have been six weeks
ago, eight weeks ago—and then issued his
negative decision on Monday.
And one of the things—and again, if you
or your listeners would want to hear a little
bit more about it, when he issued his denial
on Monday, it’s interesting to know actually
what the position of the Department of Homeland
Security is—was on this, because, generally,
the Department of Homeland Security argues
the government’s position.
And so it might be interesting to just say
what he did in light of what the government’s
own position, the DHS’s own position, was
on this issue.
AMY GOODMAN: Yes, we just have two more minutes,
but please explain, and then tell us what
happened specifically to Aminta from a few
years ago, that case overturned, and A.B.,
as well as where they are today.
KAREN MUSALO: Yes.
So, really quickly, the Department of Homeland
Security actually tried to ask Attorney General
Sessions actually not to take this case and
reopen the question of whether domestic violence
is a basis for asylum, and said, in its brief,
that it was generally supportive of this precedent.
So the government itself, sort of the prosecuting
side, was saying, “We don’t think this
should be disturbed, this precedent about
women survivors being granted asylum.”
Ms. Cifuentes was granted—her grant of asylum
remains.
It’s not brought into question by this decision.
But with Ms. A.B., this has thrown her into
great anguish, because, you can imagine, the
roller coaster of emotions from first being
denied by Judge Couch and being subject to
his abuse in the courtroom, then prevailing
at the Board of Immigration Appeals, hearing
that Judge Sessions certified the case to
himself, and then just learning on Monday
about his decision trying to deny her asylum.
The battle is not over.
I think, ultimately, we will prevail on this
issue.
Sessions is trying to drag us back to the
dark ages of human rights and women’s rights
and refugee rights.
But it’s a battle we shouldn’t have to
fight in the year 2018.
AMY GOODMAN: And very quickly, calling domestic
violence “private violence,” and how this
fits into the picture of what Sessions is
also doing to migrant mothers and fathers,
ripping their children away, and these children
piling up in detention centers along the border
as their mothers are sent as far away as to
prisons in Washington state?
These are people who have not been convicted
of any crime, the children as young as infants,
children, teenagers.
KAREN MUSALO: Yeah, Amy, there are no words
to describe the kind of cruelty—just the
kind of cruelty that is exhibited by this
administration in its policies, that are just
horrific and are beyond what one could conceptualize
that any decent, feeling human being could
even think about.
It’s unimaginable what is being done, the
trauma to these women and children.
And then, you know, to go to the point that
you asked about characterization of domestic
violence as just a private crime, you know,
this is what I meant when I said earlier that
he’s trying to drag us back to sort of the
dark ages of human rights and women’s rights,
refugee rights.
You know, there used to be this division of
what happened in sort of the public arena
by the government was a human rights violation,
but what happened in the so-called private
sphere, the home or society, to women wasn’t
a matter for human rights.
But we—you know, under the banner of women’s
rights or human rights, we erased that artificial
distinction.
Whether a woman is tortured—you know, whether
a person is tortured in the public square
or in the home, it is torture.
Whether she’s persecuted in the public sphere
or in the home, it is persecution, and she
qualifies for asylum.
And so, he is trying to drag us back to a
time period when women’s rights or children’s
rights, LGBTQ rights, were not recognized,
and individuals who were victims and survivors
of egregious harms were not protected.
And this is what we have to fight against.
And I think he is going against the tide of
history and that we will prevail.
And I hope people don’t lose heart.
We’ve seen a lot of people standing up in
very strong ways, really, you know, sort of
joining with this—against this horrific
policy of family separation.
And I think we just need to keep the movement
going and keep the opposition and the resistance
strong, and ultimately we will be able to
turn back these policies.
AMY GOODMAN: Karen Musalo, I want to thank
you so much for being with us, professor of
law and director of the Center for Gender
and Refugee Studies at the University of California,
Hastings College of the Law.
She’s of the attorneys in the case of Ms.
A.B.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we look at a report on
extreme poverty in the United States and the
movement that’s growing around the country,
inheriting the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther
King, the Poor People’s Campaign, that’s
seen thousands of people arrested over the
last weeks all over the United States, led
by the guest we’ll have on today, Reverend
William Barber, who was arrested last this
past Monday, and led, as well, by Reverend
Liz Theoharis, who was also arrested in front
of the Supreme Court.
We’ll be speaking with Philip Alston, the
author of the report, as well.
Stay with us.
