AMY GOODMAN: “Aleppo” by Sinne Eeg, here
on Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, The War
and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we get the latest on
what happened this weekend with the U.S.,
French, British bombing of Syria.
In his tweet on Saturday morning, President
Donald Trump wrote, “A perfectly executed
strike last night.
Thank you to France and the United Kingdom
for their wisdom and the power of their fine
Military.
Could not have had a better result.
Mission Accomplished!”
And this is President Trump on Friday night.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: My fellow Americans,
a short time ago, I ordered the United States
armed forces to launch precision strikes on
targets associated with the chemical weapons
capabilities of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad.
A combined operation with the armed forces
of France and the United Kingdom is now underway.
AMY GOODMAN: We continue our look at Syria
with Ramah Kudaimi, Syrian-American activist
based in Washington, D.C., with the Syrian
Solidarity Collective.
She is on the National Committee of the War
Resisters League.
Here in New York City, Chelsea Manning is
a network security specialist and advocate
for government transparency, a queer, gender
rights activist.
She’s perhaps best known as, well, the most
famous whistleblower of the Iraq/Afghanistan
war, served in the Army in Iraq, spent seven
years in military prison after leaking a trove
of documents about the Iraq and Afghan wars
and the State Department to WikiLeaks in 2010,
currently running for U.S. Senate in her home
state of Maryland.
So, Chelsea Manning, what was your response
when you heard President Trump’s announcement
Friday night and then him tweeting “Mission
Accomplished!”?
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, “Mission Accomplished!”
I believe I’ve heard those words before.
AMY GOODMAN: But why don’t we go back—
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —to those words right now.
Let’s go back—
CHELSEA MANNING: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —to 2003.
At the time, it was President George W. Bush.
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: My fellow Americans,
major combat operations in Iraq have ended.
In the battle of Iraq, the United States and
our allies have prevailed.
AMY GOODMAN: That was May 1st, 2003.
Where were you at the time, Chelsea Manning?
CHELSEA MANNING: I was in high school.
AMY GOODMAN: But you then would go on to Iraq.
CHELSEA MANNING: Yes, I did.
AMY GOODMAN: So, talk about why that matters
to you, this echo of what you heard before.
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, we’ve been—we’ve
intervened in the Middle East for quite some
time now, you know, going back, for the United
States, half a century at this point.
We’ve been involved in, you know, Iraq,
Afghanistan.
Now we’re more embroiled in Syria.
And so, this is just a continuation—you
know, these recent events are just a continuation
of years of really a projection of power into
the region.
And we’re constantly intervening, you know.
And for what reason?
You know, it always comes down to some excuse.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, interestingly, one of those
who responded was Ari Fleischer—
CHELSEA MANNING: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —who served as a White House
press secretary for President George W. Bush
from 2001 to 2003.
Fleischer wrote, quote, “Um…I would have
recommended ending this tweet with not those
two words.”
And he said the “Um…”
CHELSEA MANNING: Exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Ramah Kudaimi, your information
about both the alleged attack, what we know
about it at this point, and the sites that
were hit?
And then I want to put that same question
to Chelsea.
RAMAH KUDAIMI: Yeah, so, I think it’s interesting
that we tend to go—continue to go back to
Iraq in 2003 and the horrible decision, obviously,
to invade and occupy Iraq, horrible because
it destroyed, you know, an entire country
and created—you know, destroyed millions
of lives.
And I think we continue to go back on that,
and we pretend that the Arab uprisings that
happened in late 2010, 2011, didn’t happen.
And we need to really—you know, we need
to look at and analyze Syria and the rest
of the region in light of those uprisings,
not to take away the horrible history of the
United States of intervening, the complete—obviously,
the United States is concerned with its national
interest, just like Russia is concerned with
its national interest, just like Saudi Arabia
is concerned with national interests, Iran,
Turkey, etc., etc.
All of these players that are now in Syria
have their national interests at play, not
the hopes and dreams of the Syrian people
to live without a dictator, to live in freedom
and dignity.
And so, I think it’s very important that
we use—we see places like Iraq and not just
assume Syria is Iraq, is Libya, which is a
very racist notion and just assumes all of
these places that have Muslims and Arabs and
are full of brown people are the same.
We can take lessons learned, but take—let’s
take the right lessons learned, not just,
“Oh, U.S. intervention is bad,” and just
stay with that shallow analysis.
In terms of what’s happening in Syria with
the use of chemical weapons attacks, there
have been numerous investigations in the past
few years about chemical weapons attacks.
People who are claiming and crying that, “Oh,
the reason that we are against this, you know,
U.S.—what the U.S. just did over the weekend.
We need to wait and see the investigations,”
investigations have happened in the past,
and they’ve ignored them.
So, last year, for example, when the attack
happened in April of 2017 in Khan Sheikhoun,
and as a response, you know, Trump bombed
that empty airfield, six months after the
chemical weapons attack, the Organization
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons came
out with a report, an investigation: Yes,
in fact, the regime was responsible for that
attack.
No one went back and corrected themselves
and said, “Oh, see?
Actually we were wrong by claiming that the
regime didn’t do it.”
It just didn’t happen, because there is
this lag time between when a chemical weapon
attack happens and when the investigation
is actually concluded.
And because we live in, unfortunately, a media
world that—you know, whether it’s mainstream
media or even alternative left media, that
only pays attention to, you know, a few days
and then forgets about the conflict in Syria,
we don’t see this constant thing of like,
actually, chemical weapons attacks have happened
again and again, and various international
bodies, whether it’s the U.N., the OPCW,
human rights groups, have found the regime
guilty again and again.
So, there is a pattern of behavior on behalf
of the regime, and it is not—should not
be shocking, then, that this latest attack
in Douma that happened about a week or so
ago would also be responsible of the regime.
And I’ve heard reports, for example, that
this morning, that Russia and the regime were
blocking access to—for OPCW investigators
to the site in Douma, which is, again, something
that happens.
The regime blocks access to investigators,
human rights investigators, activists, journalists,
and then we say, “Well, we can’t trust
the United States, but here, let’s listen
to regime propaganda and Russia propaganda
instead.”
AMY GOODMAN: It’s the Organization for the
Prevention of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, that
has investigators there.
Interestingly, Chelsea Manning, you tweeted,
“oh!
so if a foreign country launched missiles
at pueblo chemical depot in colorado and blue
grass depot in kentucky it’d be totally
chill.”
Explain your comparison.
CHELSEA MANNING: So, yeah, that was in response
to somebody who’s tried to say that this
isn’t a war, this wasn’t an act of war
against, you know, a foreign—in a foreign
country, but it’s a subjective matter.
You know, if somebody did that to us, it would
obviously be—you know, it would obviously
be a war.
So, this is—you know, and this is war.
This is an engagement.
And this is a—this is an escalation.
I mean, this has been a consistent escalation.
And I just want to say that this is not—that
what happened in Syria in the last few days
has not been, from the American perspective,
has not been—or, you know, West—you know,
like Britain and France perspective, has not
been about what’s actually happening in
Syria.
It has nothing to do with Syria.
It has nothing to do with the Syrian people.
It has nothing to do with the Middle East.
And it has everything to do with domestic
policy, and it has everything to do with Russia.
I mean, we’ve heard this constant rhetorical
position again and again about Russia, Russia,
Russia, and we’re really—you know, and
the tweets indicated—you know, the tweets
that we saw last week by Donald Trump indicated
that we’re trying to provoke Russia into
a proxy war.
And that’s a very dangerous thing to do.
We’re really putting ourselves closer and
closer to the brink every single time that
we increase the rhetoric, we increase the
pressure, and, you know, whether it’s sanctions
or if it’s bombings against—you know,
like the tweet was about—the tweet we saw
last week was about Russia, not about Syria.
Like, that just indicates how little this
has to do with Syria, and everything to do
with Russia.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, British Royal Air Force
jets joined American and French warplanes
and ships in hitting targets in Syria Saturday,
in response to the reported chemical attack
in Douma.
Today, British Prime Minister Theresa May
will face lawmakers as she attempts to justify
her decision to launch the airstrikes against
Syria without a vote in the British Parliament
as, quote, “in Britain’s national interest”
and meant to stop more suffering from chemical
weapons attacks.
This comes as Jeremy Corbyn, leader of Britain’s
main opposition Labour Party, said it should
introduce a War Powers Act to ban military
action without Parliament’s approval.
Speaking on the BBC, Corbyn also said President
Trump should speak directly with Putin.
JEREMY CORBYN: Quite clearly, any country
that’s deeply involved in Syria could cause
an awful lot more trouble now if they wanted
to.
I hope that President Trump will listen to
wise counsels, listen also to wise counsels
outside the U.S.A., and pick up the phone
to Putin and talk.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s the British Labour
Leader Jeremy Corbyn.
Ramah Kudaimi, your response?
RAMAH KUDAIMI: [inaudible] he was saying,
this has nothing to do—it seems like we
talk about U.S. and Russia, and that’s what
Corbyn is also saying, is that, “Oh, well,
the U.S. and the Russia need to talk things
out.”
Where’s the justice for the Syrian people?
Where’s the justice for the Syrian people,
who, again, were inspired by the uprisings
that took place in Tunisia, in Libya, in Egypt,
in Bahrain, in Iraq, in Yemen, were inspired
to say, “Hey, we can also make a demand.
We can also live without a brutal dictatorship.
We want our freedom and our dignity”?
And then they were met with supporters of
Assad, who said, “It is Assad, or we burn
the country.”
And they’ve proceeded to burn the country,
with the support of Iran, with the support
of Russia, with friends of Syria, such as
the U.S. and Turkey and Saudi Arabia, who
in fact were not friends but actually also
going in and looking for their national interests.
And I think that is what is missing in all
of these discussions about the future of Syria,
is: Where is justice and accountability for
war crimes?
And Russia is an enabler of the regime.
Russia has—for so long now, Russia has been,
quote-unquote, “leading peace processes.”
We’ve had several years, people who say,
“Well, it’s time for diplomacy.”
There has been diplomacy since 2012.
There has been talks and negotiations in Geneva,
in Sochi, in Astana, in so many different
places, you know, for years.
And yet, the problem is because these demands
are not around justice, these demands are
not around an end, immediate end, to all airstrikes,
whether they are regime airstrikes, U.S. airstrikes,
Russian airstrikes, and putting on the table
that the Syrian people deserve accountability
from the leaders who brought all these war
crimes against them.
And until we get to that level of discussion,
there is no—there is no purpose in talking
about diplomacy.
There’s no purpose talking about ceasefires,
if no one is actually concerned with talking
about the reality of what happened in Syria,
and instead we’re constantly fed, “Oh,
it’s not clear what’s happening.
It’s too complicated.
These are just—you know, Syrians are just
killing each other, and we should just stay
out of it.
The United States should just stay out of
it,” when, in fact, again, the reality is
the Syrian people are suffering.
They’ve made a demand for the fall of the
regime.
They’ve requested support in getting that
accountability for war crimes and getting
justice.
And frankly, they have been abandoned, not
only by the powers that be—and that’s
expected, obviously, because powers of be
are not concerned with these issues, they
are concerned with national interest and their
own security and their own war profiteering—but
they have been abandoned, most sadly, by an
international left, the international antiwar
movement, that should have been said, “Yes,
we support people’s struggles.
We support revolution.
We support the idea that we want to live in
freedom and dignity, and bring down systems
of oppression.”
And instead, the Syrian people have been spit
on by these people and told, “Actually,
you need to die in silence and stop bothering
us.”
AMY GOODMAN: And the issue of who is allowed
to come into the United States, the ban on
Syrians, as the U.S. is bombing Syria, Ramah?
RAMAH KUDAIMI: Yeah, this is—and again,
this is where we need to push on U.S. policies,
you know, that Trump likes to present himself
as some hero in this case, and has been [inaudible]
that they’ve—that this Muslim ban, which
mostly—which impacts, obviously, people
from a lot of countries, but very directly
the Syrian refugees, who are trying to escape
these various powers that are bombing the
country.
And, yeah, it is ridiculous.
And we need to be pushing, in terms of thinking
about demands.
People say, “Well, there’s nothing to
do on Syria.”
There’s a lot of things to do on Syria.
One, obviously, pushing the United States
to accept more refugees, and not only the
U.S.
The EU itself has also shut down its borders.
Countries across the globe are shutting down
their borders to various refugees, but especially
Syrian refugees.
So, demanding open borders for all refugees,
and then demanding a discourse shift, that
we talk about Syria based on what the Syrian
people rose up and demanded, and looking at
it in that way and demanding, yes, an end
to all airstrikes, more humanitarian aid to
support people’s needs for survival, and
accountability for all war crimes.
AMY GOODMAN: Chelsea Manning, you’re running
for U.S. Senate against Ben Cardin.
The primary is in June.
What about the issue of taking the U.S. bombing
of Syria to Congress, to have it authorized?
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, I think that congressional
authorization is sort of this—I mean, like,
obviously, no single person should have the
power to be able to arbitrarily engage in
airstrikes just, you know, for whatever reason,
without any checks and balances or anything
like that.
So, I really think that having a president
or having any single person with this much
power is problematic.
But I also think that in this instance, where
you have—you know, even if you had congressional
authorization, this is not about—you know,
you don’t bring humanitarian relief by sending
in missiles.
That’s not how this works.
What we need to do—and I completely agree—is
we need to open the borders.
We allowed 11 refugees in the last few months.
Eleven.
You know, if this is about the humanitarian
needs, then we need to start opening the borders,
here in the United States, here in the—I
mean, throughout the EU, and, you know, we
should be letting people pass through the
borders, because they’re getting turned
away in mass numbers.
