AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report,
I’m Amy Goodman
In Parkland, Florida, students,
parents, families gathered for a candlelight
vigil Thursday night to mourn the 17 people
killed at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School in Broward County, Florida, in one
of the deadliest school shootings in U.S.
history.
At least 15 other people were wounded, after
a 19-year-old former student named Nikolas
Cruz arrived at the high school in an Uber
at 2:19 in the afternoon, armed with a semiautomatic
AR-15 rifle and a black duffel bag and a backpack
filled with loaded magazines, magazines of
ammunition.
On Thursday, Cruz confessed to carrying out
the mass shooting, according to a police report.
Cruz was a former member of Junior ROTC, obsessed
with guns, and had been expelled from the
high school.
On Thursday, President Trump gave a speech
at the White House in which he made no mention
of guns.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Our administration
is working closely with local authorities
to investigate the shooting and learn everything
we can.
We are committed to working with state and
local leaders to help secure our schools and
tackle the difficult issue of mental health.
AMY GOODMAN: Also early Thursday morning,
President Trump tweeted, “So many signs
that the Florida shooter was mentally disturbed,
even expelled from school for bad and erratic
behavior.
Neighbors and classmates knew he was a big
problem.
Must always report such instances to authorities,
again and again!” he tweeted.
Trump’s speech and tweets sparked outrage
from gun safety advocates and families of
those who were killed in Parkland, who pointed
out that last February President Trump repealed
an Obama-era regulation that made it harder
for people with severe mental disabilities
to purchase firearms.
Some mental health advocates, meanwhile, warned
President Trump’s comments perpetuated stigma
against people with mental illness.
For more, we’re joined by two guests.
From Washington, D.C., Lindsay Nichols is
with us, federal policy director for Giffords
Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
And in Nashville, Tennessee, Jonathan Metzl,
professor of psychiatry and the director of
the Center for Medicine, Health and Society
at Vanderbilt University.
He’s the lead author of a Vanderbilt study
that’s entitled “Mental Illness, Mass
Shootings, and the Politics of American Firearms,”
which found that fewer than 5 percent of fatal
shootings in the United States are committed
by people diagnosed with mental illness.
He writes frequently about gun violence in
America, including a recent piece in Politico
that’s headlined “I’m a Psychiatrist.
Making Gun Violence About Mental Health Is
a Crazy Idea.”
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Dr. Jonathan Metzl, why is it a crazy idea?
DR.
JONATHAN METZL: Well, let me say, first of
all, that in the aftermath of mass shootings,
it’s understandable to me why the question
of mental illness comes up, because these
shootings are so terrorizing, so spectacular,
that we ask, I think, a very important question,
which is: What would cause somebody to go
over the edge, when there are so many responsible
citizens, responsible gun owners in the world?
And so, in that sense, I think we do learn
a lot from the mental health histories of
mass shooters.
But I see it, at a policy level, as the height
of irresponsibility to do what President Trump
did yesterday, which is to make the discourse
really—excuse me—about mental health,
because, on a statistical level, people with
mental illness, first of all, are far less
likely than sane people to commit gun crimes.
And even in the case of mass shootings, what
we see is that even though we jump to this
question of mental illness right away, many
other factors are probably more explanatory—everything
from social networks, ideologies, male gender,
race, the access of firearms.
And in that sense, these are very complicated
policy questions.
And so, I feel like what President Trump is
doing when he shifts the conversation just
to mental health, as he said, is to cynically
shut down, I think, a real conversation about
what we can really do as a society to stop
mass shootings, and also just to stop gun
crime, more broadly.
AMY GOODMAN: Lindsay Nichols, as this has
played out in Parkland, this horror, I wanted
to go back to the quote of the mother who
lost her 14-year-old daughter, who rocked
the country yesterday as she spoke directly
into the camera addressing President Trump.
LORI ALHADEFF: President Trump, you say, what
can you do?
You can stop the guns from getting into these
children’s hands!
AMY GOODMAN: Lindsay Nichols, “stop the
guns from getting into children’s hands.”
And it’s not just her, but students are
being interviewed.
These are high school students, unlike Sandy
Hook five years ago, that are able to articulate
their views on guns.
And over and over again, they are saying the
same thing.
Lindsay Nichols, your thoughts today?
LINDSAY NICHOLS: Absolutely.
This is a horrible tragedy, and we’re working
carefully at developing policy solutions that
will address it.
I think the real question is about vetting
people who have access to guns.
And in this circumstance, we have a very young
person with a history that many members of
the community knew about, but there was clearly
no way to get that information into the gun
purchaser background check system, under Florida
law.
There are a couple of states that actually
do have systems now in place that would allow
that information to get into the background
check system.
California, Oregon and Washington, specifically,
have now adopted laws that allow a family
member or a law enforcement officer to seek
a court order.
And that court order means that the person
goes into the background check system, and
that if that person already has guns, those
guns can be temporarily removed.
So it’s a temporary prohibition when a person
is in crisis, and, you know, is really based
on evidence that there is some danger here,
threats of violence, threats of suicide.
And that’s really what the country needs
right now.
And I think the policymakers really need to
start looking carefully at that in every state
across the country and at the federal level.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, there were reports that
the police went to Cruz’s home something
like, I think CNN was saying, 39 times in
the last eight years to deal with domestic
violence and a mentally ill person, Lindsay
Nichols.
He was still able to legally buy an AR-15
last year.
LINDSAY NICHOLS: Right, absolutely.
And that shows that something is horribly
wrong here.
We know that domestic violence abusers are
at a very high risk of committing violence
in the future.
The federal laws have big loopholes here,
big, giant loopholes.
Even we can say there are some laws, and that’s
great, but we have to figure out a way to
extend those laws so they cover individuals
like this.
And the procedure that states are now adopting
allows the person to be temporarily prohibited
from possessing guns without other rights
being infringed or without a full domestic
violence restraining order.
I mean, in many of these circumstances, the
real issue is access to guns.
And that is what we need, as a society, to
address.
Stalkers—in this instance, there was some
evidence that this person was also guilty
of stalking—are also another high-risk category.
And we have to find a way to prevent access
to guns, because all we really have at this
time is a background check system that only—that,
you know, usually works in three minutes,
but it doesn’t allow for a extensive evaluation
of the person.
If the evaluation isn’t done within three
days, three business days, the person gets
the gun.
So we have to make sure that those records
are complete, and we have to find a way to
include records of people like this shooter,
who had a long history of violent behavior.
AMY GOODMAN: And the last February, President
Trump signing legislation—well, President
Trump, in one of his first acts in office,
repealing the Obama-era rule about people,
mentally ill, decreasing their access to guns.
Explain what it was.
And then I want to get Dr. Metzl’s response,
as well.
LINDSAY NICHOLS: Absolutely.
So, this goes all the way back to 2007, after
the Virginia Tech shooting.
There was a bipartisan effort, and a compromise
bill was actually enacted, signed by President
Bush, that was meant to strengthen the records
in the background check system.
And one of the provisions there required federal
agencies, like the Social Security Administration,
to create a process to get records into the
system, and then also allow people to get
their records removed, if they weren’t actually
a danger, if they had a gun.
The Social Security Administration issued
a rule to implement that law a couple years
ago, and then President—and then Congress—but
as soon as President Trump came into office,
Congress passed, and Trump signed, a rule—a
law revoking that rule.
So, those people could not be put in the background
check system, and that procedure was not in
place.
AMY GOODMAN: OK, Dr. Metzl, can you respond
to that?
And talk about the relationship between the
National Rifle Association and the idea that
it’s mental health that is to blame for
mass shootings.
DR.
JONATHAN METZL: Sure.
Well, first, in response to—I think Lindsay
is exactly right here, that the issue for
the action that President Trump did right
when he took office was to allow gun rights
for probably the most severely mentally ill
persons in this country.
I would say that on the day-to-day level this
probably had relatively little practical impact.
And I say that because these are people who
are already under—they already have, basically,
assistance living their daily lives in that
way, and so most of these people probably
aren’t out walking around in that regard.
But it did seem to have a lot of symbolic
effect.
And the symbolic effect was to basically say
there’s no regulation whatsoever on gun
rights and that pretty much anybody, even
people who we’ve already deemed to be high
risk, even those people are going to have
unfettered access to guns.
And so, symbolically, and especially at times
like this, I think that that’s an important
point to come back to.
In relation to this question of mental illness,
this has been a canard that has really been
part of the NRA platform for a while, this
idea that basically “guns and bullets don’t
kill people, the mentally ill do,” to quote
Ann Coulter.
It’s been part of the NRA platform for a
while, this idea that we don’t need a registry
of gun buyers or gun owners, we need a registry
of mentally ill persons.
As a psychiatrist, I can say that that’s,
first of all, stigmatizing, but also, I think,
to my mind, it really won’t do anything
at all to stem the tide of kind of—of gun
violence and gun death in this country or
of mass shootings.
I say that for a couple of reasons.
One, first of all, is that there’s no psychiatric
diagnosis whose symptom is shooting somebody
or harming somebody.
And for that reason, what we see across the
board, when we look at studies, is that persons
with mental illness, as we’ve just heard
in the news headlines today, are, first of
all, less likely than sane people to attack
or shoot other people.
But also, they’re far more likely to be
the victims of violence.
And we see that with the police case that
you were talking about in the news headlines,
where people’s symptoms are misinterpreted,
and so they’re much more likely, almost
50 percent more likely, in some studies, to
be the victims of violence.
And the other factor, I think, that—as why
I think people in the mental health community
are so upset about this is that there are
other factors, other predictive factors, that
we can look at.
And we’ve already heard a few of them: male
gender, history of domestic abuse, history
of stalking, history of violence, past history
of violence, social networks, factors like
that.
And so, when we just say this is a mental
health problem, what we’re doing is we’re
closing the door on all of these broader issues,
also substance use and abuse, factors like
that.
And so, in a way, I think the take-home point
of all of this is that mental health is an
important piece of this puzzle, but mental
health is part of a question of prevention
rather than prediction.
In other words, I think that the main point
is: How can we, as a society, create safety
laws, almost like we do with a driver’s
license, to make sure that the people who
are operating this machinery are safe, rather
than picking a needle out of a haystack about
which one person is going to go on and commit
a violent act?
AMY GOODMAN: This is Department of Health
and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar speaking
Thursday.
HHS SECRETARY ALEX AZAR: I echo what the president
said this morning about the commitment this
administration has to addressing the challenges
of serious mental illness in America.
While most Americans with mental illness are
not violent, in fact, they are more likely
to be victims of crimes themselves.
We know that untreated serious mental illness
can be associated with acts of violence like
we saw yesterday.
The Department of Health and Human Services
will be laser-focused on this issue in the
days, weeks and months to come.
And it has already been a priority under our
administration.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Jonathan Metzl, your response?
DR.
JONATHAN METZL: Complete abdication of responsibility
in that regard.
I think that just focusing on mental illness
really decontextualizes the issue of gun violence
in this country.
It’s a question of gun access as much as
anything else.
And as I was just mentioning—and I invite
readers to look at, for example, my Politico
article that details the research about this—there
is no predictive test, in a way.
And so, in that regard, I feel like this is
nothing but reifying stigma and also really
displacing of what I think the real focus
of the guns should be.
And the other issue, I think, and I hope,
is that I think—you know, I am somebody
who studies gun policy.
I go around the country doing focus groups
and interviews.
I feel like, actually, there is a lot of centrist
movement on this.
And I say this because maybe at one time people
would have said, “Oh, this is a pro- or
anti-gun debate, or pro- or anti-Second Amendment.”
But nobody is saying that anymore.
Even gun policy researchers, like myself and
Lindsay, aren’t saying we want to take away
anybody’s guns.
Really, the question is: How can we respect
the Second Amendment and let legal gun owners,
you know, live their lives, and at the same
time have policies in our society that keep
everybody safe?
And in a way, if you look at the victims,
you know, Republicans and Democrats are being
shot and killed.
Republican and Democrat children are being
shot and killed.
And so, in a way, I feel like there’s a
centrist movement in our country.
And when I hear stuff about just blaming people
with mental illness, first of all, I don’t
think people are going to buy it, because
it’s so clearly false.
And second, I just think that the government
is, in a way, going against the will of the
people, who want a commonsense solution to
this.
AMY GOODMAN: Finally, Lindsay Nichols, you
work for the Giffords Law Center to Prevent
Gun Violence.
That is Gabby Giffords, the congresswoman
from Tucson, Arizona, who was gunned down
in a parking lot, a bullet to her brain, and
yet, amazingly enough, she survived, has been
fighting, along with her husband, the astronaut,
to bring gun control to this country.
What do you think are the most important acts
now?
Now, in the media—I’m not even talking
Fox, but on the other networks—they’ll
immediately say, “Well, obviously, an automatic
weapons ban is off the table,” already accepting
what the terms of the debate have been so
far.
But what are you demanding now?
What would make people safer in this country?
LINDSAY NICHOLS: Right, absolutely.
We’re working to strengthen the background
check system, and that means focusing on things
like record reporting, focusing things on
like getting a process for getting people
into the background check system.
These are really our focuses, because we want
to make sure that the proper vetting occurs,
that law enforcement has the opportunity to
provide input into that, into the—whether
a person should have access to a gun or not.
I mean, that’s very important.
And those are the kinds of things we’ve
been focusing on, because—and we are getting
some hope here.
We are seeing—we are seeing lawmakers start
to question the gun lobby.
And that is happening very slowly, but it
is happening.
And I think we have to push, because every
day we know that so many more people are killed
in this country in homicides and suicides.
And we—and I’m starting to see some courage
on the part of politicians.
I’m trying to see—I’m starting to see
them really think through the impact of the
policies they support.
And I think—and I think there is some reason
for hope here.
AMY GOODMAN: And this statistic, put out by
Everytown for Gun Safety, this was the 18th
school shooting this year, which means there’s
been a school shooting on average every 60
hours so far this year.
Your final comment?
And for Dr. Metzl, I’d like you to—if
you could write one thing in a study guide
that people should have as they watch the
media for what to watch out for, as you see
Republicans down the line keep repeating their
mantra—mental health—and Democrats, some
of them, talk about gun control?
But let’s start with you, Lindsay Nichols.
On average, one shooting at a school every
60 hours since the beginning of the year?
LINDSAY NICHOLS: Right.
It’s absolutely outrageous, but we have
to think of it in terms of the larger gun
violence problem here.
Children are also at risk in concerts, in
movie theaters, and often very times at home.
We have a epidemic of murder-suicides in this
country, that are often preceded by domestic
violence.
And we need to look at that in that larger
context and remember that schools are just—are
actually, overall, relatively safe places
for children to be, when you talk about the
larger impact on children and on all members
of our society.
We do know that there are just too many families
that have lost loved ones, and we need to
start looking, as a country, at that.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Jonathan Metzl, I add to
my questions to you: How should Nikolas Cruz
have been dealt with?
He’s already admitted to this shooting.
He’s posted online, endlessly, threats to
kill people.
But 39 police visits to his home to deal with
domestic violence or a mentally ill individual,
the school kicking him out because he would
bring, among other things, ammunition to school,
stalked girls, etc.
What went wrong here?
And what do you think people need to understand
as they watch what happens over the next few
days?
DR.
JONATHAN METZL: Sure.
Well, I’ll answer both of the questions,
if you don’t mind.
The first, in response to the question you
just asked, is I think that Lindsay was right,
at the top of the show here, that there’s
something called a gun violence restraining
order.
It’s basically, a lot of times, when you
see people in the emergency room or police
contacts.
It’s just a quick snapshot.
But families, classmates, people like that,
I think, really know a lot about what’s
going on, and so there are temporary measures
that are very effective in other states.
And so, certainly, I think that that needs
to become national policy, because, certainly,
a lot of times, it’s the domestic partners,
it’s the families, who know—who can see
somebody escalate at a time like this.
So it’s not like there’s no policy solution,
but it’s not a mental illness solution.
It’s a family network, social network solution.
In terms of what I think psychiatry and mental
health can do, I don’t know if this will
go into a study guide, but I think the question
that rarely gets asked at times like this
is: Why do we need so many guns in the first
place?
What kind of society do we really live in
and want to live in?
I think that these broader questions are ones
that I think mental health expertise can be
really useful in having conversations, because
I think what happens in the aftermath of this
is that people just start to mistrust each
other.
All of a sudden we need more guns in school,
more armed guards, more metal detectors.
And so, in a way, what happens to society
is a question that we rarely ask, because
this mistrust becomes so pervasive.
And really, that’s where I think mental
health expertise can be useful, is to ask
the broader questions of that.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you, Dr.
Jonathan Metzl, professor of psychiatry, director
of the Center for Medicine, Health and Society
at Vanderbilt University.
His recent Politico piece, we will link to,
“I’m a Psychiatrist.
Making Gun Violence About Mental Health Is
a Crazy Idea.”
And thanks so much to Lindsay Nichols, federal
policy director, Giffords Law Center to Prevent
Gun Violence.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we look at two issues—the
postings online of the gunman, his threats
when he would post on YouTube, talk about
the people he would kill, say he would become
a professional school shooter.
How was that missed, when people even reported
this?
And we’ll talk about his stalking of and
harassing women, so often linked, a precursor,
to mass shootings.
Stay with us.
