AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, we spend the rest of
the hour looking at the life and legacy of
the founder of black liberation theology,
Reverend Dr. James Cone.
Starting in the 1960s, he argued for racial
justice and interpreted the Christian gospel
from the experience of the oppressed.
He said he was inspired by Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr., who gave black theology its
Christian identity, and Malcolm X, who gave
black theology its black identity.
Dr. Cone died Saturday at the age of 81 [sic].
This is part of an address he gave in 1971
at the University of Richmond.
REV.
JAMES CONE: There can be no reconciliation
with masters as long as they are masters,
no reconciliation as long as men are in prison.
There can be no communication between the
masters and the slave, until masters no longer
exist as masters, are no longer present as
masters.
The Christian task is to rebel against all
masters, destroying their pretensions to authority
and ridiculing the symbols of power.
However, it must be remembered that oppressors
never take kindly to those who question their
authority.
They do not like thugs and bums, people who
disregard their power.
And they will try to silence them any way
they can.
But if we believe that our humanity transcends
them and is not dependent upon their goodwill,
then we can fight against them, even though
it may mean death.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: That was Dr. James Cone speaking
in 1971.
And correction: He died at the age of 79.
His groundbreaking books include Black Theology
& Black Power, published in 1969; A Black
Theology of Liberation, published in 1970;
Martin & Malcolm & America: A Dream or a Nightmare?;
and God of the Oppressed; and as well as The
Cross and the Lynching Tree, which he published
in 2011.
He had also just completed a forthcoming memoir
titled Said I Wasn’t Gonna Tell Nobody.
This is Dr. James Cone speaking at Union Theological
Seminary in 2016.
REV.
JAMES CONE: If I were going to write an authentic
black liberation theology, I have to let the
suffering of black people speak in and through
my theology.
My theology came out of the black experience
of slavery, segregation and lynching, and
not from white American and European theologies
that I studied in graduate school.
Black liberation theology emerged out of the
civil rights and Black Power movements, symbolizing
the life and work of Martin Luther King Jr.
and Malcolm X.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Cone joined the faculty of
Union Theological Seminary here in New York
in 1969.
He was at the seminary, he was at Union Theological,
for a half a century.
He was named the Bill and Judith Moyers distinguished
professor of systematic theology in 2017.
Through his work and in the classroom, he
inspired generations of scholars, professors,
pastors and activists to work to dismantle
white supremacy, and helped give birth to
the womanist theology and other liberation
theologies.
Professor Cornel West called him “the greatest
liberation theologian to emerge in the American
empire—and he never ever sold out,” West
said.
One of Dr. Cone’s students made national
headlines during the 2008 presidential election,
when then Barack Obama’s pastor, the Reverend
Jeremiah Wright, made controversial comments
on race and other issues.
Well, for more, we’re joined by three guests.
Here in New York, the Reverend Dr. Serene
Jones is with us, president of Union Theological
Seminary, as well as Dr. Kelly Brown Douglas,
dean of the Episcopal Divinity School and
professor at Union Theological Seminary, a
former student of Dr. Cone.
And in Atlanta, Georgia, we’re joined by
another former student, Reverend Dr. Raphael
Warnock, who serves as senior pastor of the
Ebenezer Baptist Church there, which was the
spiritual home of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Professor Warnock, Dr. Warnock, is also the
chair of the New Georgia Project, author of
The Divided Mind of the Black Church: Theology,
Piety, and Public Witness, and on the board
of Union Theological Seminary.
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Our condolences.
I wanted to begin with the Reverend Dr. Kelly
Brown Douglas.
You work so closely with Dr. Cone at Union
Theological.
You were his student.
It’s hard to even talk about him in the
past tense.
REV.
KELLY BROWN DOUGLAS: Yes, that’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about his legacy, what he
meant to you and what he meant to this country.
REV.
KELLY BROWN DOUGLAS: Yes, I think that his
legacy is very hard to really quantify, because
it will be a very long legacy that will cross
generations, because Dr. Cone always said
that he didn’t want disciples.
He didn’t want students who would come and
simply imitate his work and simply carry on
the paradigms that he created.
He urged us always to find our own voice.
And he wanted us to bring our own perspectives,
not simply to our understanding of God, but
to our understanding of the complexity of
injustice, so that we could understand more
the meaning of God’s justice and the work
that we had to do.
So he wanted committed students.
And so he opened the space for us to indeed
find our own theological voice.
He wanted students who were committed to the
work of justice, which is God’s work—he
always understood that—and gave us a place,
first of all, to study, at a time where we
would not be able to find many places to do
our work and to do our theology and to do
the theology that meant something to us.
As we were there, as I said, he encouraged
us to critique his work and to move beyond
it.
And so he opened the space for the emergence
of new theologies, new theological voices,
hence womanist theology, black women.
There weren’t many places for black women
to do work in the early ’70s, etc., when
I went to Union.
He provided us that opportunity.
And so, his legacy looms large, because he
has inspired a generation of black and other
liberation theologians.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Dr. Serene Jones, you’re
the president of Union Theological.
His impact on Union itself and on Christian
theology generally?
REV.
SERENE JONES: Well, his impact on Union is
inestimable.
Imagine a single powerful voice showing up
in classrooms and preaching in the pulpit
for 50 years, 50 years in one place.
He won’t walk our halls anymore.
His voice won’t be heard in our classrooms.
And it wasn’t just any voice.
It was the voice of a man whose deep faith
was manifest in this forceful, fierce commitment
to the liberation of black people and the
liberation of people everywhere.
That can’t be replicated.
But as Dr. Douglas said, for Jim, the best
replication was for new generations of students
to find that commitment to speaking on behalf
and with and in solidarity beside the oppressed
of the world in the face of grave injustice.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And the impact that he had
on Christian theology, in general, in the
United States?
REV.
SERENE JONES: Well, so, his impact on Christian
theology—I read Jim Cone in 1981 in my first
class in seminary, just a few years ago.
It was the first theological book I read in
seminary.
And here I was, reading a man who, in a sense,
sent a torpedo right at the heart of the whiteness
of Christian theology as it had been manifest
in churches in the United States, since the
beginning, and supported chattel slavery and
Jim Crow.
And he said no.
He said, “God is not white.
God is not even no color.
God is black.
And Jesus is black.
And Jesus seeks the empowerment of black people,
and that the masters need to walk away.”
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to go for a minute to
Jim Cone in his own words, Reverend Dr. Cone’s
2011 book, The Cross and the Lynching Tree.
He called the crucifixion of Jesus a “first-century
lynching.”
I want to turn to Dr. James Cone being interviewed
by Bill Moyers in 2007.
REV.
JAMES CONE: The lynching tree interprets the
cross.
It keeps the cross out of the hands of those
who are dominant.
Nobody who is lynching anybody can understand
the cross.
That’s why it’s so important to place
the cross and the lynching tree together,
because the cross, or the crucifixion, was
analogous to a first-century lynching.
In fact, biblical scholars, when they want
to describe what was happening to Jesus, many
of them says it was a lynching.
And all I want to suggest is, if American
Christians say they want to identify with
that cross, they have to see the cross as
a lynching.
Any time your empathy, your solidarity, is
with the little people, you’re with the
cross.
If you identify with the lynchers, then, no,
you can’t understand what’s happening.
That, in the sense of resistance, what resistance
means for helpless people.
Power in the powerless is not something that
we are accustomed to listening to and understanding.
It’s not a part of our historical experience.
America always wants to think it’s going
to win everything.
Well, black people have a history in which
we didn’t win.
We did not win.
See, our resistance is a resistance against
the odds.
That’s why we can understand the cross.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Dr. James Cone, about
a decade ago, being interviewed by Bill Moyers
on PBS.
Let’s turn to Reverend Dr. Raphael Warnock
in Atlanta, senior pastor of the Ebenezer
Baptist Church.
He did his Ph.D. under Dr. Cone at Union Theological
Seminary.
Reverend Dr. Raphael Warnock, explain what
black liberation theology is, further, and
what he meant to you.
REV.
RAPHAEL WARNOCK: Thank you so much, Amy.
It’s great to be here with you and, of course,
with the president of Union, my alma mater,
Serene Jones and Kelly Brown Douglas, who
also did her doctorate under Jim Cone.
Listen, all of us really are reeling in the
death of this man who was larger than life.
He really created something for which there
were no models for what he did.
This black theology of liberation comes really
from the depth of his experience.
James Cone was an academic theologian who
spoke with the power and moral authority of
a prophet.
And the reason he was able to do this is because
his thinking was immersed deeply in the suffering
and the experience of black people.
And so, black theology really can be reduced
to one statement, that God is the liberator
and that liberation is the central message
of the gospel, and any gospel that is not
committed to the liberation of the oppressed
is a heresy, it is a false gospel.
And so, what Dr. King did was that he really—he
really decentered those voices that were at
the center of the discourse, and took those
who were on the margins and made them the
center of the discourse.
And he said that, in a real sense, this is
what Christian faith is all about.
We have to remember the context out of which
black theology emerged.
It was the riots—or the uprisings, I should
say, really—in Detroit, in Newark, here
in the wake of the death of Dr. King, this
man who spoke with such love and deep commitment
to this idea of liberation.
He inspired Dr. King—Dr. Cone, along with
Malcolm X.
And Dr. Cone has inspired countless generations,
theologians, preachers, pastors.
So many of us would not be doing what we do,
were it not for the incredible impact of his
voice on the American religious landscape.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to break and then
come back to this discussion.
Again, over the weekend, the Reverend Dr.
James Cone died, at Union Theological Seminary
for half a century, considered the father
of black liberation theology.
We’re joined by two of his students, Dr.
Kelly Brown Douglas and Dr. Raphael Warnock—Dr.
Kelly Brown Douglas at Union Theological,
Dr. Warnock, a senior pastor of Ebenezer Baptist
Church—as well as the head of Union Theological
Seminary, Dr. Serene Jones.
This is Democracy Now!
Back on Dr. Cone in a minute.
AMY GOODMAN: “Nobody Knows the Trouble I’ve
Seen,” sung by Mahalia Jackson.
One of Reverend Dr. James Cone’s books was
titled The Spirituals and the Blues: An Interpretation.
He wrote in his book, “No black person could
escape the reality they expressed.
B.B.
King, Johnny Lee Hooker, and Mahalia Jackson
created essential structures that defined
my blackness.”
Those, the words of the late Dr. Cone.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, we continue our look
at the life and legacy of the founder of black
liberation theology, Reverend Dr. James Cone.
Starting in the 1960s, he argued for racial
justice and interpreted the Christian gospel
from the experience of the oppressed.
He said he was inspired by Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr., who gave black theology its
Christian identity, and Malcolm X, who gave
black theology its black identity.
Dr. Cone died Saturday at the age of 79.
This is Dr. Cone speaking at the 2012 general
conference of the United Methodist Church.
REV.
JAMES CONE: I write for those who are penniless
and jobless, landless, and those who have
no political or social power.
I speak and I write for gays, for lesbians,
bisexuals and those who are transgender, the
queer people of this world.
I write for the undocumented farmworkers toiling
in misery in our nation’s agricultural fields.
I write and speak for Muslims who live under
the terror of war and empire in Iraq and Afghanistan.
And I speak and write for all people who care
about humanity.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Dr. Cone speaking in
2012.
I remember sitting next to him the night that
Michelle Alexander gave a major address here
in New York, the author of The New Jim Crow.
We continue with our three guests, all linked
to Union Theological Seminary, where he worked
and served for half a century.
Dr. Serene Jones is president of Union Theological
Seminary.
Dr. Kelly Brown Douglas, dean of the Episcopal
Divinity School and professor at Union Theological
Seminary, a former student of Dr. Cone.
And in Atlanta, Georgia, another former student,
did his Ph.D. under Dr. Cone, Reverend Dr.
Raphael Warnock, who is senior pastor of Dr.
King’s church, the Ebenezer Baptist Church
there.
Juan?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, I wanted to ask Dr.
Raphael Warnock about his seminal book, Black
Theology & Black Power.
It came in the wake of the assassination of
Martin Luther King Jr.
And your sense of the impact that that book
had, in terms of beginning to—and also how
he was shaped.
The Detroit riot, of course, he often referred
to as a major shaper of his own consciousness.
But how his book affected the theology, especially
black liberation theology, across the country?
REV.
RAPHAEL WARNOCK: Yeah, you have to remember
the context out of which this book emerged.
Black Power was the theme in the moment, and
there were a number of people who were upset
about this whole theme of Black Power.
And, in fact, white liberals, in a real sense,
felt betrayed.
And people were saying that this represents
violence, that this is a turn in the wrong
direction, that somehow Black Power is the
Antichrist.
And Dr. Cone emerged in that setting.
He talks about writing this book in his brother’s
church.
It took about 30 days or so.
It was like he was possessed with this deep
kind of passion and concern for the humanity
of black people, the struggles not just of
that moment, but of the last 300 years.
And so he writes that book out of that context.
It comes from the experience of black suffering.
He insists that that has to be the central
place, the point of departure, and that any
Christian theology that does not affirm the
humanity of those on the bottom is not a Christian
theology.
And so, this book really did shake the whole
academic world.
It shook the church world.
As he said, that if you want to know where
the message of Jesus Christ is in 20th century
America, it is Black Power.
It is this affirmation of black humanity in
a country that says that everything that’s
black is negative.
And so, it was a kind of transvaluative move,
lifting that—taking that which was at the
bottom and saying that this is where God is
in the world.
And it’s really hard to overstate its impact
on the discourse at that moment.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Dr. Kelly Brown?
REV.
KELLY BROWN DOUGLAS: Yes, I can only affirm
what Dr. Warnock said.
And what one must understand is that Dr. Cone
could not understand how anyone could be doing
any kind of Christian theology at that time,
this time when black people are simply fighting
for their dignity, at a time when, of course,
Dr. King had been assassinated, and you have
Christian theologians doing theology not even
talking about the black struggle for liberation.
He said, “How can you be Christian and not
do that?”
Not only did you have Christian theologians
not talking about it, but you had pastors
ignoring what was going on.
I mean, you know, Dr. King said that these
pastors were being silent, and he indicted
them for that in his, of course, Letter from
the Birmingham Jail.
That never ended.
So, for Dr. Cone, this was blasphemous.
How can you be a member of a religious tradition,
with the cross at its center, and you not
even speak of the black people who are struggling
and fighting just for their human dignity?
So, for Cone, it was urgent.
There was—he was compelled to say something,
because not to speak was in fact to betray
the very faith with which he grew up in.
And so, he knew the faith, and so his theology
didn’t start in his head.
His theology started from inside of him, because
he was raised in a church in Bearden, Arkansas.
He knew the faith of that church.
And so, what he was articulating for the world
to hear was the faith of that church and saying
that God’s story was the black story.
Again, the black story was God’s story.
And if you’re going to be Christian in America,
you need to know the black story, because
if you don’t, then you aren’t going to
know God’s story.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Serene Jones, yours is a
Christian seminary, the Union Theological
Seminary, but Dr. Cone did not just teach
Christian students.
REV.
SERENE JONES: Yes.
And it’s interesting to trace his own evolution
over time.
At Union now, we have a large number of students
who come with no religious affiliation.
We continue to have students coming out of
the Christian tradition.
But he also has in his classes now Buddhists
and Muslims and a wide variety of faith backgrounds.
And Dr. Cone stepped into that space with
a great sense of grace and vitality.
And as he grew, so his own message grew more
expansive.
As he traveled the world and saw the suffering
and oppressions of peoples everywhere, in
many different faith traditions, his own vision
of what faith is and what social justice consists
of continued to expand.
AMY GOODMAN: And his feelings about President
Trump, as his last year of his life was under
the current president?
REV.
SERENE JONES: Well, of course, he thought,
of all the words that Cone could use that
would be the most serious was, that he was
blasphemous, blasphemous and heretical, to
even claim to stand in anywhere near the Christian
tradition and justify the horrors that his
administration and him have supported.
Cone was vehemently outspoken against him
and would have been absolutely certain and
clear on that point.
AMY GOODMAN: Reverend Dr. Serene Jones, president
of Union Theological Seminary, and Dr. Cone’s
former students, the Reverend Dr. Kelly Brown
Douglas, dean of the Episcopal Divinity School,
professor at Union Theological Seminary, and
former student Reverend Dr. Raphael Warnock,
senior pastor now of the Ebenezer Baptist
Church, the spiritual home of Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr.
Dr. James Cone, the Reverend Dr. James Cone,
has died at the age of 79.
He served at Union Theological Seminary for
a half a century.
