AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh, with
Part 2 of our discussion about a remarkable
new film that is coming out this weekend.
As the #MeToo movement has inspired women
and men around the world to come forward with
their stories of sexual abuse, harassment,
assault, we turn to this new film that is
a dramatic narrative film, a narrative memoir
about a woman’s own reckoning with childhood
sexual abuse.
And it is written and directed by the woman
who experienced the abuse: Jennifer Fox.
It’s premiering on May 26 on HBO.
This, again, is the film’s trailer.
JENNIFER: [played by Laura Dern] The story
you are about to see is true—as far as I
know.
When I a was a child, I was obsessed with
changing myself.
And I don’t even remember who I used to
be.
NETTIE: [played by Ellen Burstyn] Jennifer,
sweetheart, I found a story that you wrote
in English class.
JENNIFER: Where did you find it?
NETTIE: What matters is what it says.
JENNY: [played by Isabelle Nélisse] I’ve
met two very special people.
MRS.
G: [played by Elizabeth Debicki] That is an
excellent coat.
BILL: [played by Jason Ritter] Jenny, do you
trust me?
JENNY: Mrs. G was the most beautiful woman
I had ever met.
MRS.
G: There are no bad horses, only bad riders.
JENNIFER: I need to talk about it with someone
who was there.
Hello, Mrs. G.
OLDER MRS.
G: [played by Frances Conroy] Let’s get
you up in the saddle, see what you can do.
JENNIFER: Help me remember them.
Why can’t I remember myself?
NETTIE: You were an unusual child.
BILL: Strong body, strong mind.
JENNY: Strong body, strong mind.
JENNIFER: I found some pictures from that
summer.
MRS.
G: You’re so special.
OLDER MRS.
G: You know I have a lot of regrets.
MARTIN: [played by Common] You talked about
the relationship, but this is a grown man.
JENNIFER: This was important to me.
Why are you so angry?
NETTIE: Why are you not angry?
BILL: You must push yourself beyond all boundaries.
MRS.
G: Don’t tell anyone.
It’s our secret.
JENNIFER: I just need to know what happened.
I’m trying to figure out why.
OLDER BILL: [played by John Heard] You deceived
yourself.
JENNIFER: Why are you telling this story,
Jenny?
JENNY: It’s my life!
Mine!
JENNIFER: You don’t know what’s about
to happen.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So that’s the trailer for
The Tale, which premiered earlier this year
at the Sundance Film Festival.
The film’s stars include Laura Dern, Ellen
Burstyn, Jason Ritter and Common.
The film received rave reviews, with The Guardian
calling it, quote, “a stunning sexual abuse
drama” and “the mother of all #MeToo movies.”
We’re now joined by Jennifer Fox, the writer
and director of The Tale, a narrative memoir
about her own childhood sexual abuse.
The film premieres May 26th on HBO.
Thank you so much, Jennifer, for staying for
the second part of our interview.
JENNIFER FOX: Thank you.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Now, in the first part, we
talked about some of the details of the film.
But in an earlier interview, you had said
that many things happened that aren’t in
the film, because it’s almost like there
was too much to say.
Now, you don’t need to disclose what that
“too much” was.
But how did you determine what should be in
the film and what should be excluded from
the film, and whether it has anything to do
with the fact that your mother, when she told
people about the fact that you were making
this film, that some said to her—criticized
her, saying that you you would bring shame
onto the family by making your own experience
public?
JENNIFER FOX: Oh, it’s a great question.
Nothing was left out of the film for the reason
of trying to—trying to prevent people from
knowing too much.
I mean, the whole goal of the film is to be
honest, radically honest, in fact.
But, for me, you know, why do we make stories?
We make stories to make sense of chaos and
trauma.
And that’s age-old.
So, you’re always cutting down and shaping
to get to some essential truth, and you hope
you hit your mark.
And so, you know, what I tried to do with
The Tale is to get to the essence of what
memory is about and how I constructed myself
from this story as a 13-year-old.
AMY GOODMAN: And for people who didn’t see
Part 1, just quickly summarize what The Tale
is about in your life.
JENNIFER FOX: Sure.
The Tale is about an adult woman, played by
Laura Dern, who thinks she has a great life,
and she does.
She has a wonderful boyfriend, played by Common.
She has a great job as a filmmaker.
And her mother finds a story she wrote at
13, which is true.
And the mother recognizes it is true, freaks
out, calls her up and says, “You have to
do something.
You know, something bad happened to you that
you’ve never really faced.”
And Jennifer, played by Laura, says, “I
remember it, but maybe you’re right.
Maybe there’s something here I’ve missed.”
And she goes on a journey to find out about
the real story by meeting the real people
now.
And that brings up all sorts of memories and
reframes of memories that she thought she
really understood.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I mean, that’s one of the
amazing things about the film, is that you
managed to show that memories emerge—traumatic
memories only emerge very gradually, and a
clearer picture emerges only after a certain
amount of reflection.
And you document that in the film.
And that’s somehow demonstrating, you know,
what you talked about earlier, the fact of
dissociation or the splitting off of selves,
that children can’t bear to experience the
kind of trauma that childhood sexual abuse
entails.
So could you talk about how the making of
the film itself allowed you to retrospectively
both experience and feel this trauma and reveal
more to you about what actually occurred and
how you perceived?
JENNIFER FOX: Sure.
You know, I just want to be clear: This is
one story.
Child sexual abuse trauma comes in many different
varieties, so I don’t want to say my story
is everyone’s story.
In my case, I chose to—it’s not that I
forgot any of the bad.
I could recall it in a heartbeat.
But I saw it as overwhelmingly positive that
these people actually gave me importance and
loved me at a moment—
AMY GOODMAN: These are your coaches, a woman,
a man—
JENNIFER FOX: My coaches.
AMY GOODMAN: —the woman facilitating you
as bait for the man.
JENNIFER FOX: Exactly.
You and my mother would agree perfectly.
I didn’t see it like that as a child.
As an adult, I do see it like that, of course.
AMY GOODMAN: Following up on how you frame
this dramatic narrative, that makes it so
unusual, is all the different voices in the
film, how you go back and forth.
You have your child self talking to your older
self.
That’s Isabelle Nélisse talking to Laura
Dern.
You have Laura Dern talking to herself, remembering
back your mother as a younger person, as an
older person.
Explain how you did this and why you switched
all these voices.
JENNIFER FOX: Well, the whole goal of the
film and in the writing of the film was to
understand how the mind works.
And the first thing that was really shocking
as I was writing the script was to discover
that I thought I was the same person now as
I was at 13, and, in fact, at one moment,
I realized, no, I’m not.
I have changed.
I am an adult now.
And I don’t even know who that 13-year-old
was.
And that gave me the idea that, “Well, how
am I going to know her?
I am going to investigate her.”
And so I created these fantasy scenes where
the adult self, played by Laura Dern, actually
talks to her younger self, played by Isabelle
Nélisse.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I mean, that’s the thing.
So, in the film, you give a very uncommon
account, although, of course, it’s the experience
of, I would imagine, most people and not just
those who survive child sexual abuse, but
any kind of traumatic experience—
JENNIFER FOX: Exactly.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: —that memory is a much more
complicated thing than people generally understand.
They say, “Oh, this happened to you, so,
of course, you must remember that this happened
to you.”
But it’s not quite like that.
And your film does such a brilliant job at
showing the kind of snippets of images, of
conversations, that emerge as you reflect
on this.
Could you talk a little bit more about that?
JENNIFER FOX: Sure.
I mean, I was trying to represent the way
the mind works.
And we are all living in our minds in multiple
times.
You’re here now, but you’re also—have
a flash of a memory in the past.
You think about the future.
All of this is happening simultaneously inside
of you.
And so, the film is trying to open up this
inner world of the mind and show it as it’s
playing, in real time.
It’s really interesting.
The other discovery was, “Oh, my god, that
child I was created me now,” because she
was so fierce, and she was so determined to
survive and to be a winner and to be a hero,
that she was like, “I’m going to take
this as this.
This is going to be my badge of honor, and
I’m going to go out in the world and do
great things, because I’m a hero.”
And she literally created me, without me,
as an adult, realizing, “Oh, I owe her everything.”
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, in fact, you were heroic,
because—I mean, in many different ways,
but also, and most strikingly, that you put
an end to it.
I mean, you’re a 13-year-old girl.
This man is almost 40 years old.
And, in fact, you feel that he loves you and,
indeed, that you love him.
JENNIFER FOX: Yeah.
Yes, all of that is true.
But also I think we have to remember that
young girls—and boys, but I’m talking
about girls now—have agency and thoughts
and desires and feelings, that when we become
adults, we tend to forget and squash and think,
“Oh, no, I was just this little gray thing.”
But, no, I thought I knew what I was doing.
What I didn’t have was experience.
And that’s why we need adults to protect
children, not because they don’t know what
they’re doing, but because they don’t
have experience to read a situation.
AMY GOODMAN: And I want to talk about how
parents, how teachers can intervene.
But I want to ask another question.
When you decide to end this—and I don’t
know if this is in fact in your real life,
when you end this relationship—some might
call it ongoing rape or sexual abuse with
this man, this famous athlete, and you’re
13 years old, calling him—it’s after he
has asked you to join a foursome—he, the
other coach, Mrs. G., and another young woman,
who’s also a child.
She’s a teenager.
She’s under 18.
She’s like 17.
JENNIFER FOX: I think she was 18.
Sorry.
AMY GOODMAN: She was 18 at that time.
JENNIFER FOX: Yes, mm-hmm.
AMY GOODMAN: But the critical point in that
is you realize there’s someone else then,
you’re not the only one.
JENNIFER FOX: Oh, it’s a good point.
AMY GOODMAN: And you start to get physically
sick.
Explain that.
And go beyond that.
It’s not only her, Iris Rose, the two-flower
name, but—and so often is the case with
sexual predators, it turns out there are probably
many, many, many other little girls that were
his “special ones.”
JENNIFER FOX: You know, I just want to be
clear: There are many different kinds of perpetrators,
and there are also crimes of opportunity.
And we don’t know how many children or even
if there were other children that the real
Bill preyed upon.
What we do know is that he was sleeping with
me, a college student and an adult woman at
the same time.
So, it could be that there were many other
college students, because he had access to
them because he was a college coach.
So, let’s not clump—we can’t have a
universal about what perpetrators do and look
like.
There are pedophiles that only sleep with
children, and we know Bill is not that, as
from evidence.
In terms of what happened to me, remember,
1973, the sexual revolution, people were having
threesomes and foursomes and experimenting
with sexuality.
Anyhow, I was having what I called an affair
with Bill, and he began to introduce this
idea of we should all get together and have
a foursome.
And we were planned to have a weekend with
Mrs. G and Iris Rose.
And I can’t really say why.
But it was all set up.
I was supposed to go to school, and then Mrs.
G would pick me up.
And I woke up violently ill, what really was
the trigger in my mind.
So I woke up violently ill.
My mother called them and said, “No, Jennifer
can’t go to her track meet,” because that’s
what she thought I was going to.
And two hours later, I basically—I took
a nap, and I was fine.
And it was like this big red light went off
in my head, like this is your body telling
you that you can’t go forward.
I don’t think I had a lot of like judgment
about it.
It was just like, “OK, I’ve hit the end
of the line of this experiment, and it’s
enough.”
And so, later on that night, I called him
up and said, “I don’t want to see you
anymore.”
AMY GOODMAN: But do you think this awareness
that he was having a relationship—you knew
about Mrs. G.
But there’s now another woman.
It’s not just this special—special relationship.
And also, interestingly, when you—when Laura
Dern meets Iris Rose as an adult, when she
tells her that she was with Bill as a young
person, I wonder if it wasn’t only the shock
of saying, “But you were so little,” when
Iris Rose looked at her and said, “But you
were only 13 then,” but also, “Oh, he
had someone else.
She, too,” that awareness that you were
a part of this.
JENNIFER FOX: I do think, Amy, you’re right
that this idea was so important to me that
I was special, and it was really helping me
a lot, because I felt like this invisible
kid.
I was the kid, you know, that no boy would
look at.
I was the kid that was bad at basketball.
I was the kid—you know, I was, you know,
the one nobody wanted to sit with in the lunchroom
kind of thing.
And, you know, many young girls experience
these feelings.
So here was this great man, and woman, who
was giving me all this attention.
And I do think, as the circle widened, it
became like, “Whoa!
I guess I’m not that special.”
But I did know about them.
He told me that he was having an affair with
Mrs. G. And he told me that he was having
an affair with Iris.
So, I think it was something else.
It was like I already was involved in this
sexual activity that was over the top, more
than I could tolerate.
And now we were going to expand it beyond
even that.
You know, my body just shut down.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: That’s the question about
specialness, the fact that among the things
that your memory repressed, or a repressed
memory, was the absence of Iris, the other
young woman.
And I think that’s a very important point.
Now, whether—you know, that was obviously
not intentional or unintentional, however
one interprets it, that child sexual abuse,
in many cases—obviously, you’re right
to say that the experience is not—your experience,
or indeed anybody’s, is not universal, that
often, as you’ve also said, 93 percent of
instances in which children are abused, they’re
abused by someone they know.
And I think, in many cases, children feel
that they’re being selected, that there
is something special about them that warrants
them receiving this kind of attention, whatever
form that attention takes, and that they’re
in need somehow of being made to feel that
way and feeling loved, by often a person who’s
idealized, older, adult.
JENNIFER FOX: Absolutely.
I mean, you said it so well.
I mean, this is what grooming is.
I mean, you have an adult in the community,
or even a family member, unfortunately, who
begins to give someone special attention.
And grooming is a slow ease into their world
and consciousness, where the child feels taken
care of, loved, better than, given special
favors.
And so, the adult eases into their world,
where it becomes very hard for the child to
say no at a certain point.
And again, I really, really have to take task
with language.
This is why I think “rape” is an inappropriate
word, and it’s a confusing word, for this
event.
When we call it “child sexual abuse,”
it’s because grooming is involved, and it
isn’t the use of violence to get in with
a child.
It’s mental and psychological manipulation.
So it’s like every step, they’re tiny
little steps that can go on for a year, can
go on for a week, can go on for a month.
They get you into the child’s world, where
no is just not a possibility.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about the difference
between unconscious memories and dissociated
memories?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, I’m not a psychologist.
Again, look, I’m a filmmaker and a person.
But, for me, there is nothing in The Tale
that’s shown that I didn’t remember from
the get-go.
Again, what I was doing is preferencing certain
memories and not preferencing other memories.
So—
NERMEEN SHAIKH: But would you say that you
were broken off from the affect of those memories—in
other words, the emotions associated with
those memories.
You may have remembered them.
JENNIFER FOX: Absolutely, absolutely.
So, I wasn’t feeling the trauma.
I was feeling the love.
I remembered—look, I hated every ounce of
sexual advance from the first second.
From the moment he touched me, my skin crawled.
And I was very ticklish.
I was a little girl.
And I had to sit there like this just to tolerate
it, and hold my breath.
So, it’s not like I remember pleasure.
I didn’t see him as my boyfriend.
In fact, in the film, you see that I was very
interested in this little boy.
And my parents, in their sort of ordinary
stupidity that parents can have, wouldn’t
let me go out on a date with him, because
they were trying to take care of me.
They didn’t see this adult as being dangerous.
That, I saw—I saw other children as boyfriends.
I saw him as an adult giving me attention,
that I was tolerating to get this other result,
which was love.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re talking to Jennifer Fox,
who’s the writer and director of a remarkable
new HBO film, a dramatic feature film, called
The Tale.
You’ve just released a website along with
The Tale.
And I’d like you to talk about what you
think now, upon reflection, teachers—I mean,
this whole thing is based on this essay you
wrote called “The Tale,” and the teacher
said, “You know, you’re so well adjusted,
this couldn’t have happened to you.”
It was your own essay.
JENNIFER FOX: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: What teachers can do to intervene,
what parents can do?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, we did—we’re trying
to create a huge outreach effort to help people
use the film and to provide resources for
people watching the film, if they need to
call a hotline or if they need other information
or support.
It’s TheTaleMovie.com.
You can also reach it through HBO.
What teachers and parents can do—you know,
remember, I grew up—you know, I was born
in 1959.
My parents were '50s parents.
You know, children are to be seen and not
heard.
So, this event took place in 1973.
We were not—at that time, you know, children
weren't talked to in a horizontal level.
And, for me, I think the thing that I really
wanted most of all as a child was for somebody
to talk to me and listen to me and to take
my thoughts seriously and not just say, “No,
you can’t think like this,” or, “No,
you don’t know what you’re talking about,”
which is what the adult world always does.
So, what I would like to say to parents and
teachers is, first, listen, hear, really communicate
with a child.
At the same time, give them boundaries, you
know, that are responsible boundaries.
And just try as much as possible to have an
open channel of communication, which was not
in my case.
That said, you have to be very careful of
who your children are with, you know.
And as my mom would say—and she’s right—you
know, who is the child staying overnight with?
You know, even though she missed it, because
she—these were “trusted adults,” and
she thought I was staying at the home of a
female coach.
She had no idea that the female coach was
allowing me to stay with the male coach.
So, keep tabs on that, communication.
And then, on a whole 'nother level, you know,
love your child.
You know, give your child real support.
I fell back into a family that loved me, that
listened to me, that was trying to take care
of me, that allowed me to go on with my life.
I also don't believe that parents and educators
should force kids to talk about things they’re
not ready to talk about, because sometimes
it takes years, and even decades, to be able
to be ready to face trauma.
And that is the soul saying, “I can’t
take it yet.”
NERMEEN SHAIKH: That’s one of the crucial
insights of, in fact, psychoanalysis, that
you can only give an interpretation, say what’s
happening, when you feel the person is ready
to hear that interpretation.
I’d like to go to one of the readings of
child sexual abuse by a renowned psychoanalyst.
You’ve written—you’ve said, in another
context, to really take care of the soul,
we have to allow the truth, in all its complexity,
and honor the contradictions.
Now, this renowned psychoanalyst, Leonard
Shengold, wrote a book about child sexual
abuse called Soul Murder, a term he says likely
had its origins in the 19th century and was
used by Scandinavian playwrights Henrik Ibsen
and August Strindberg.
Ibsen defined the term as, quote, “the destruction
of the love of life in another human being.”
“The destruction of the love of life in
another human being.”
Could you comment on that?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, that’s a beautiful,
beautiful saying.
I think this is what’s—first of all, coming
to the first point, I think so often the world
and authorities want to look at child sexual
abuse in black-and-white terms.
And that squashes the truth.
We can still say this is horrible, and acknowledge
that a child can feel love, a child can feel
special, while somebody is hurting them terribly.
So what is child sexual abuse?
Ultimately, it’s crossing a boundary that
is actually what a child is not ready to handle
at that moment.
And that is a kind of murder.
There’s a part of me that was murdered on
that day, in those weeks and months that I
had this relationship, that is very hard to
reclaim, because, basically, my trust was
broken.
Here was someone I trusted to take care of
me, who I loved, who basically used that trust
to cross a boundary that was beyond tolerance
for me at that moment.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I don’t know if you had
this experience yourself, or indeed you’ve
heard of others you spoke to having this experience,
namely that those who survive sexual abuse,
irrespective of their age, often go on to
either themselves repeat the experience as
perpetrators or, more commonly, to put themselves
in situations where they’re more likely
to experience similar kinds of abuse, in an
attempt, at least unconsciously, to master
the experience.
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
You know, those are things I’ve heard.
And I think, again, the response to sexual
abuse is everything, as well as you can’t
even see it in a person’s life, it’s buried
so far.
And they function fine.
They have families, jobs, etc.
I think, for me, I did not experience those
effects.
I think when, at 45, I woke up and used the
word “child sexual abuse,” I also realized
this thing that we call reparation compulsion
was something that I had been operating with
from the time I was very young.
And that’s where this innocent moment, which
is supposed to be so wonderful and beautiful,
when you first have sex, had been taken from
me.
And I found that when I went on to have sex,
going forward, I was constantly trying to
get that innocent moment back.
And it was gone.
And, in fact, it took me years and years to
have pleasure as a woman.
And it’s something I felt I had to fight
for quite strongly, to reclaim my ability
to enjoy sex.
AMY GOODMAN: You know, when we talk about
sexual abuse or rape, rape doesn’t have
to be violent in the sense that we know it.
And you’re making that distinction.
I mean, statutory rape can be a older person
having sex with a younger person.
By law, it’s rape.
JENNIFER FOX: I agree.
I mean, I know that’s true.
AMY GOODMAN: And so, what do you think should
happen in terms of issues of prosecution?
As you said, in a moment, when you were younger,
your parents would have gone for the prosecution
against him.
JENNIFER FOX: Absolutely.
AMY GOODMAN: You don’t want to reveal his
name.
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: You say he’s older now.
Not clear how many other people would be—as
we’ve seen in the #MeToo movement with Harvey
Weinstein, one person comes forward, another
person comes forward, and it validates the
experience that so many others have had.
That might happen in your case, if you name
the person, that people go, “Oh, my god!
This happened to me!
That is the guy who did that to me.”
JENNIFER FOX: Well, for me, again, making
the film has a much bigger purpose than one
person.
If I thought he was still out there hurting
people—he is literally too old to do that—I
would probably try to do something now.
The statute of limitations have way run out,
and we’ll talk about that in a minute.
For me, naming him now would only hurt this
bigger movement of trying to get the film
out and use it for other people’s—to help
other people talk about abuse, see abuse,
understand why women are coming to terms with
abuse actually so late in life.
It’s quite common that people wake up in
middle age, like I did.
However, I do hope the film can be very useful
in changing statute of limitation laws and
in children protection acts.
This is because most people do wake up late,
and usually the laws have run out.
I come from a state where statute of limitation
laws ran out when I was 30 on this case.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: What was the state?
JENNIFER FOX: Pennsylvania.
AMY GOODMAN: Interestingly, you’re about
to do a Q&A in Sweden—
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —over Skype, because the film
is coming out there.
This is from the BBC just today: “Sweden
has passed a new law saying that sex without
consent is rape, even when there are no threats
or force involved.
The new law, due to come into effect on [July
1st], says a person must give clear consent,
verbal or physical.
Prosecutors will no longer need to prove violence
or that the victim was in a vulnerable situation
in order to establish rape.”
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
OK, other than my underage, if you looked
at our situation, I gave consent.
AMY GOODMAN: But “other than your underage”
is the key—
JENNIFER FOX: No, no, I understand—
AMY GOODMAN: —issue.
JENNIFER FOX: No, I understand—
AMY GOODMAN: That’s what statutory rape
is.
Yeah.
JENNIFER FOX: I mean, I absolutely understand
that, legally, it’s statutory rape.
What I’m talking about is using language
to be more precise about process.
That’s all.
AMY GOODMAN: So—go ahead.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Can I just go back to a phrase
that you used earlier, which I have not heard
before, “reparation compulsion”?
Because, of course, the word or the phrase—
JENNIFER FOX: Yeah.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: —that’s popular is “repetition
compulsion,” which is, of course, Freudian
and so on and gestures towards what I was
asking earlier, that people tend to—not
everybody, obviously—either repeat, themselves,
experiences of sexual abuse, and not just
sexual abuse, other forms of trauma, or put
themselves in situations where they would
be subject to similar forms of trauma.
So, what is the origin of that term, “reparation
compulsion”?
Did you just come up with it now?
And how is it that you had the wherewithal
or the strength to start to repair the damage
that was done because of your child sexual
abuse?
JENNIFER FOX: You know, I don’t know where
I heard the word “reparation compulsion.”
But when I use—I first acknowledged, in
my mid-forties, that it was sexual abuse,
I read it.
And we were talking about it, my girlfriends
and I.
So, it was something—you know, you’re
literally trying to repair history by having
sex with someone new that could be, you know,
felt and seen differently.
Unfortunately, that moment of innocence is
never really regained.
What you do find is that in a good relationship
you have the kind of lightness and playfulness
that makes you feel repaired again.
