JUAN GONZÁLEZ: “Trade wars are good, and
easy to win.”
That’s the message President Trump tweeted
on Friday, sending shockwaves across the globe
and sparking fears of impending economic volatility.
On Thursday, world stock markets tumbled after
Trump announced he’s imposing new tariffs
on imports of foreign steel and aluminum.
The new tariffs—25 percent on steel and
10 percent on aluminum—will benefit U.S.
producers of the metals, while raising prices
for companies that manufacture everything
from cars to airplanes to high-rise buildings.
AMY GOODMAN: Prominent Republicans and business
leaders have denounced Trump’s plan, saying
the tariffs will hurt the manufacturing industry
and U.S. competitiveness.
House Speaker Paul Ryan said in a statement
Monday, quote, “We are extremely worried
about the consequences of a trade war and
are urging the White House to not advance
with this plan.”
Trump’s announcement has also prompted concerns
that other countries will impose retaliatory
tariffs while challenging U.S. protectionism
at the World Trade Organization.
On Monday, President Trump told reporters
he was not going to back down on his plan
to impose new tariffs.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Thank you all very
much.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER: Paul Ryan wants you to back down
on trade.
Paul Ryan says he’s worried about a trade
war.
Are you going to back down on the tariffs?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: No, we’re not backing
down.
Mexico is—we’ve had a very bad deal with
Mexico, a very bad deal with Canada.
It’s called NAFTA.
Our factories have left our country.
Our jobs have left our country.
For many years, NAFTA has been a disaster.
We are renegotiating NAFTA, as I said I would.
And if we don’t make a deal, I’ll terminate
NAFTA.
But if I do make a deal which is fair to the
workers and to the American people, that would
be, I would imagine, one of the points that
we’ll negotiate.
It will be tariffs on steel for Canada and
for Mexico.
So, we’ll see what happens.
But right now, 100 percent, but it could be
a part of NAFTA.
And I understand—I just got a call from
the people who are right now in Mexico City
negotiating NAFTA.
Mexico, and really Canada, want to talk about
it.
But if they aren’t going to make a fair
NAFTA deal, we’re just going to leave it
this way.
People have to understand, our country, on
trade, has been ripped off by virtually every
country in the world, whether it’s friend
or enemy—everybody—China, Russia, and
take people that we think are wonderful, the
European Union.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Trump’s announcement on
tariffs, however, has garnered enthusiastic
support from some top Democratic lawmakers
and labor unions, who say the tariffs will
help long-struggling steel and aluminum workers
compete in an increasingly difficult global
economy.
This is Democratic Ohio Congresswoman Marcy
Kaptur speaking to Fox News.
REP.
MARCY KAPTUR: We understand the delicate nature
of tariffs, but we know America hasn’t had
a trade balance in over a quarter-century.
Right now, over 700 workers in Lorain, Ohio,
have been pink-slipped, unless something happens
very soon.
We know we have to resurrect this steel industry
in our country to give it a fair trade, level
playing field.
I think the president is inching toward that.
He’s at the scrimmage line.
We look forward to the details.
But I can tell you what we don’t want is
an America without a steel industry, an America
that is subject to predatory practices by
countries like China, like Russia, even like
Vietnam, that backdoor goods into this country
and cause great job loss here and corporate
collapse.
We need to have a level playing field.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Democratic Ohio Congressmember
Marcy Kaptur supporting Trump’s tariff plan.
Well, for more, we host a debate today on
the debates—on the impacts of Trump’s
tariffs—who they’ll help and who they’ll
hurt.
In Washington, D.C., we’re joined by Lori
Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s Global
Trade Watch and author of The Rise and Fall
of Fast Track Trade Authority.
Here in New York City, we’re joined by Michael
Hudson, the author of America’s Protectionist
Takeoff 1815-1914.
He’s professor of economics at Peking University
in Beijing and at the University of Missouri,
Kansas City.
Hudson’s most recent book is titled J Is
for Junk Economics: A Guide to Reality in
an Age of Deception.
We’re going to speak with Lori Wallach and
Michael Hudson after break, and then we’re
going to turn to Democratic Senator Chris
Murphy.
He is the senator from Connecticut.
He was a congressmember when the Sandy Hook
massacre took place.
And now he’ll talk about what he feels the
prospects are for gun control in the U.S.
Congress.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll begin our debate with the tariffs
in a moment.
AMY GOODMAN: “Steel and Glass” by John
Lennon.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González, as
we turn to a debate on the impacts of President
Trump’s proposal for tariffs—who they’ll
help, who they’ll hurt.
In Washington, Lori Wallach is with us, director
of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch,
author of The Rise and Fall of Fast Track
Trade Authority.
Here in New York, we’re joined by Michael
Hudson, author of America’s Protectionist
Takeoff.
He is professor of economics at Peking University
in Beijing and at the University of Missouri,
Kansas City.
Lori Wallach, let’s begin with you.
Were you surprised by President Trump’s
announcement?
And where do you stand?
LORI WALLACH: I wasn’t particularly surprised,
though the question is whether he’ll follow
through.
It wasn’t managed in the most artful way.
And where I stand on it is, this is an enforcement
action similar to what’s been done fairly
systematically, not only in steel.
There are hundreds of these kinds of orders
outstanding.
Because President Trump is generally despicable,
he’s getting piled on, and a huge attack
by a lot of folks who want to and have been
trying to declare a “trade war” is going
to be started by him, when, in fact, in 2002,
President Bush did the same thing, only with
30 percent steel tariffs.
And here’s the background of it.
There is a systematic overproduction of steel
in the world because other countries subsidize.
We’re one of the most free trade, open countries,
so we end up as the “buyer of last resort.”
So we get flooded with the subsidized, overcapacity
steel.
Just in the last number of years, over ten—sorry,
100,000 workers, mainly union, in these industries
have lost their jobs.
So what we’re doing now is nothing that’s
particularly high-tech.
You know, it’s not coming from Wakanda,
it’s coming from our trade laws.
We’re putting a shield up to basically bounce
off all this incoming, to basically say, “Basta!
We are not buying this stuff, you guys, really.”
For 10 years we’ve been talking to all these
countries, saying, “Stop subsidizing.
Stop dumping all this stuff on us,” and
they’ve totally ignored us.
So, now we’re doing this sort of trade two-by-four.
It’s temporary.
This is not the new tariff, but it’s sort
of a “Yo!
Slow down.
We were talking to you.
You didn’t listen.”
And so now there will be a temporary block,
where we bounce this stuff off.
And the rest of the market, all the other
countries, have to basically stop oversupplying,
stop subsidizing.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Michael Hudson, you’ve got
a distinctly different perspective.
Your view on the Trump announcement?
MICHAEL HUDSON: Well, in many ways, what she
said is correct.
But America has always been the most protectionist
country in the world for itself.
It wants free trade for other countries.
And Lori is quite right when she sees there’s
a disconnect between what economists say and
what politicians actually do.
International trade theory is probably the
silliest branch of modern economic theory.
It’s just a mass of assumptions.
And if what the textbooks say were true, America
never could have become the major manufacturing
power.
Britain couldn’t have.
Germany couldn’t have.
Every country that is an industrial power
has got rich by subsidizing its industry and
pursuing a protectionist policy.
However, what Trump is doing is the opposite
of all the protectionist logic that every
country has followed.
The whole idea of protectionism is to increase
your expensive, high-technology manufactures
by getting low raw materials.
Trump is doing the opposite.
But he’s raised aluminum prices by 40 percent
in the last month, 60 percent since the summer.
Steel prices are up 33 percent.
So, this is going to squeeze the prices that
manufacturers have to pay that make things
out of aluminum and steel.
There’s no increase in tariffs on buying
foreign tin cans or foreign steel products,
so the American manufacturers will be squeezed.
But foreign countries now have a great benefit.
Germany, China, other countries are thinking,
“Now, under the rules of international trade,
when there is an illegal tariff put on, we
get to retaliate.”
And they’re going to look around and say,
“What do we want to respond to?
What is the major American competition that
we want to knock off the table?”
And they’re going to put tariffs on whatever
they think the competition is, whether it’s
Boeing airplanes or bourbon or blue jeans
or other things.
So, what Trump’s policy does is a travesty
of protectionism.
It merely squeezes.
And the pretense of all of this is that if
he gives more money to the steel and aluminum
companies, they’ll invest more and hire
more labor.
But they’re not going to do that at all.
Not a single new steel factory is going to
be built.
Not a single new aluminum factory, because
aluminum is made out of electricity, and America
is a high-cost electricity country, compared
to Iceland, where Alcan produces much of its
aluminum, in Canada.
So, what you’re doing is enabling the steel
and the aluminum companies to use their increased
profits for share buybacks and to pay dividends,
but they’re not going to build new factories.
There is not going to be any trickle down.
So, Trump has made a travesty out of protectionist
doctrine, as well.
AMY GOODMAN: Lori Wallach, your response?
LORI WALLACH: Well, first of all, there’s
actually empirical research on this, because
when Bush did what he did in 2002 with the
30 percent tariffs, the same exact alarms
went off: Prices will go up, global catastrophe,
trade war.
And, in fact, the U.S. International Trade
Commission, the official economists and trade
experts of the U.S. government, did a very
detailed study, which folks can see on the
ITC’s website.
It was published at the end of 2003.
And what they found was that, actually, prices
didn’t jump up for the users of, in that
case, steel—because aluminum wasn’t covered.
But rather, there was an increase in general
welfare, which is to say, as president—sorry,
as Professor Hudson has laid out, the way
he’s talking about it is as if these tariffs
were a permanent policy.
This is a temporary sort of trade policy two-by-four
to readjust the market.
And so, in fact, what will happen, what did
happen in 2002, is, right away, the U.S. steel
mills and the aluminum foundries will start
to rehire the people who they have laid off.
A bunch of steel mills have closed, but a
lot of other ones have just laid people off.
And so, those guys are going to start rehiring.
As far as the prices, in fact, the study by
the ITC showed there isn’t a big jump.
But folks need to sort of think through how
this will work in the next year, 18 months,
that these tariffs would be in place—again,
if Trump follows through.
And that is something that my little young
nephews, Jake, Sam and Noah, knew before they
got into high school, which is, if, for instance,
their can of soup, which is the can of steel—if
that whole can of soup, let’s just say,
was a dollar, the amount of actual steel in
there is less than a penny.
The can can be bought, produced for about
five cents.
So let’s just assume 25 percent increase
in the price of steel, which is not what happened
any time this has been done before.
It’s a fraction, tiny, pennies, of increase
for a can of soup.
We’re not going to see a huge jump.
And you see companies like GM, one of the
biggest user industries, basically saying,
“We need a domestic steel and aluminum industry
in our country.
We are for trade policies that actually will
make our country have a manufacturing sector.”
So, I think a lot of the way this was announced
was very sloppy, and there has not been a
very good management of sort of the information
around it.
But using these kind of short-term measures
is what every country does, which then gets
to what Professor Hudson said about what happens.
This ain’t gonna be a trade war.
There’s a lot of huffing and puffing.
But the reality is, the way you respond to
this—because, by the way, lots of other
countries do the same thing.
We’re one of the countries that never does.
That’s why we have all the excess steel
coming to us.
Other countries have already done the “ixnay,
you can’t send it here” measures.
And what you do when you think it’s unfair
is you go to the WTO, and there’s a process.
So, for instance, when Bush did what he did
in 2002, that process played out over about
two years.
At the end of the period, the WTO said, “You
can’t do that,” at which point then the
other countries are allowed to put up sanctions.
But this is not a [snaps] boom, right away.
We’re protesting the same kind of, let’s
call it, enforcement actions—it’s a technical
matter—that other countries have taken at
the WTO, and then the WTO looks at the rules
and says, “All right, this is kosher, this
is not.”
In this case, because it’s based on almost
a year of research, because this is about
national security, and the WTO has a national
security exception, this action might actually
stand for the U.S., whereas the steel action
was based in a different part of the trade
law and was ruled to be a WTO violation.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: So, in essence, what I’m
hearing from Lori, she’s seeing this more
as a political action, not a long-term economic
policy, to basically get some of the other
countries to pay attention and to negotiate
better relations in terms of trade.
But, Michael Hudson, this whole issue of the
kind—where we’re putting the tariffs on—clearly,
the United States has monopolies in some areas,
that other countries could retaliate against.
I’m thinking, for instance, the pharmaceutical
industry, the patents and copyrights that
are so essential to the pharmaceutical and
biotech industry.
Even doctors, medical doctors, are protected
in the United States from foreign competition.
Could you talk about the choice of steel and
aluminum versus these other industries?
MICHAEL HUDSON: Well, you’re right.
It is political more than economic.
There’s not much of an economic justification,
despite what Lori says.
She’s right when she says the price of steel
cans is not going to go up.
But the cost of steel will go up for the steel
can manufacturers.
So, they’re going to have costs go up a
little bit, and their profits will be squeezed
somewhat.
The profits will be up for steel and aluminum.
I don’t think there’s going to be much
of a hiring.
And I think there’s another factor here,
the fact that Trump is breaking the trade
agreements, just as he was—America was trying
to push forth the Trans-Pacific Partnership
and other trade agreements, that Lori has
been very good at criticizing.
And, in fact, she should be overjoyed—I’m
sure she is—at Trump’s action, because
he wrote this wonderful book, The Art of Breaking
the Deal.
I think the publisher called it The Art of
the Deal.
But he made all of his money by breaking deals,
which is why nobody will deal with him.
The suppliers won’t deal with him in New
York, because he’ll make a deal: “I’m
going to pay you this much for what you supply
for the hotel.”
Then it comes time to pay: “Oh, I didn’t
like it.
I’m going to pay you 50 cents on the dollar.”
He screwed his suppliers, his manufacturers.
The banks won’t deal with him.
This kind of businessman’s behavior—that
is how businessmen make money, by breaking
deals—it doesn’t work that way internationally.
The international economy is so strained right
now.
And even though Hillary backed the steel tariffs,
just as much as George Bush backed them—she
supported them at the time—the situation
has changed, and the Europeans are much more
reactive and protectionist these days, and
the Asians are also, because they’re going
to be hurt, but most of all Canada.
Canada is the major supplier of steel and
aluminum to the United States.
That’s the politics that’s involved.
Now, imagine what this is going to do right
at the time that NAFTA is being renegotiated,
ostensibly, by Trump.
For one thing, Trump has said to Canada and
Mexico, “Any deal we make, we can break
any time by saying 'national security.'”
National security means anything, because
everything is plugged into everything else.
It’s all a system.
And you could say that protecting doctors,
you could say the pharmaceuticals—anything—is
national security.
So what that means is, we have an out.
Free trade for you.
We can always protect what we’re doing for
national security.
And you’re only Canada and Mexico.
What are you going to do about it?
AMY GOODMAN: And, Professor Hudson, the response
in China right now?
You’re a professor at Peking University.
You also taught in Wuhan, China.
We are sitting here with your books, your
textbooks, in English and in Chinese.
MICHAEL HUDSON: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: The response there?
MICHAEL HUDSON: Well, there is a war over
who is going to control the highest-technology
products.
And the response to America’s steel and
aluminum tariffs will be asymmetrical.
China is only the 11th-largest supplier of
steel to America, not a major supplier at
all.
The steels that are important to America are
specialty steels, German steel and Japanese
steel especially.
American companies don’t make that kind
of steel.
There’s no way that they can hire more workers
and make more plants to provide the kind of
specialty steels that we’re getting from
Germany and Japan.
So, not all steel is the same.
It’s going to be a—the politics are going
to be very interesting.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Lori, I wanted to ask
you—we only have about a minute for this
segment.
You were mentioning the claims of a trade
war are inflated, but Trump himself has tweeted
that trade wars are good, so he’s actually
stoked the ideas of a trade war.
LORI WALLACH: I think we can all agree that
President Trump is despicable and has not—I
just don’t know how else to say this—is
not the most intelligent when it comes to
his policy or political statements.
However, that being said, the reality of how
this is likely to play out is not categorically
different than how it plays out every time
every other country puts up this kind of a
measure.
And, Professor Hudson, I want to have a bet
with you—I think we should have lunch, whoever
loses pays—because I will bet that, in fact,
in short order, if the president follows through
and puts these tariffs in place, then there
will be a rehiring of a lot of the shifts
that have been stopped in aluminum and in
steel in the last 18 months, because it is
true that, right, on a daily basis, we’re
not importing, say, from China, but it’s
a global market.
So, when China is oversupplying, when Russia
is way oversupplying, when Korea is, who picks
up the particular steel from the other country
cascades.
So the fact that at the moment it’s not
coming from China does not mean that the reduction
of the total supply that this kind of two-by-four
policy tool will result in won’t have the
outcome of creating more jobs.
That said, the key thing is—
AMY GOODMAN: Five seconds, Lori.
LORI WALLACH: —this does not a trade policy
fix make.
This is an enforcement action on one specific
problem.
The—
AMY GOODMAN: Lori, we’re going to have to
leave it there, but I hope that we can film
the lunch.
Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s
Global Trade Watch, and economist Michael
Hudson, professor of economics at Peking University
in Beijing and the University of Missouri
in Kansas City.
This is Democracy Now!
In 30 seconds, we’ll be back with Senator
Murphy of Connecticut on gun control.
Stay with us.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s “9 to 5” by Dolly
Parton.
The Imagination Library youth literacy program,
started by Parton over two decades ago, just
celebrated its 100 millionth book.
