Prisoners across the United States are set
to go on strike today in a mass mobilization
demanding improved living conditions, greater
access to resources and the end of what they
call “modern day slavery.”
Prisoners in at least 17 states are expected
to participate in the strike, coordinating
sit-ins, hunger strikes, work stoppages, commissary
boycotts, from today until September 9th—the
47th anniversary of the deadly Attica prison
uprising here in New York.
Prisoners first called for the strike in April,
after a bloody altercation broke out at the
Lee Correctional Institution in South Carolina,
leaving seven prisoners dead and 17 others
seriously injured.
It was the deadliest prison riot in the United
States in a quarter of a century.
Six of the seven prisoners killed were African-American.
The violence was allowed to continue for hours.
One witness described bodies of dead prisoners,
quote, “literally stacked on top of each
other.”
No guards were hurt.
The riot became the rallying cry for a movement.
In the weeks after that, prison advocacy network
Jailhouse Lawyers Speak issued a list of 10
demands, among them greater sentencing reform,
more access to rehabilitation programs, the
right to vote and the end of “prison slave
labor,” what they called “prison slave
labor.”
This is a video made by the Incarcerated Workers
Organizing Committee with the nonprofit Planting
Justice, explaining why prisoners are striking.
Some people will look at me, possibly, as
a ex-felon or a parolee.
I consider myself to be a survivor of a system
that was made to target me and have me doing
life in prison.
Because I know how to strip floors, wax them,
take the gum up off floors, and so I started
doing that.
And that was 16 cent an hour.
I started out as a line server, serving food
for breakfast and dinner.
Then I became a dishwasher and just all the
maintenance of the kitchen.
And it didn’t pay much.
It paid 13 cent an hour.
Basically, I worked and made $20 a month,
and they took 55 percent of that out for restitution.
It’s kind of like a modern-day plantation
situation, specifically targeting poor people
and, most especially, the most marginalized
community, black and brown and LGBT community.
The weeks-long strike begins today, on the
47th anniversary of the killing of Black Panther
George Jackson, who was shot and killed by
guards during an escape attempt from San Quentin
prison.
The strike is expected to be the largest prisoner
action since the 2016 prison strike, which
saw at least 20,000 prisoners participating
in collective action across 11 states, the
largest prison work strike in U.S. history.
Well, for more, we’re joined by three guests.
In Oakland, California, Cole Dorsey is with
us, former prisoner and activist who helped
organize the strike, one of the voices we
just heard in the video explaining it.
In Detroit, we’ll speak with Heather Ann
Thompson, the American historian, author and
activist.
She just won the Pulitzer Prize for her book
Blood in the Water: The Attica Prison Uprising
of 1971 and Its Legacy, now being adapted
for a film.
She’s professor of history at the University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
And in Seattle, Washington, we’ll speak
with Amani Sawari, a prison strike organizer
working on behalf of Jailhouse Lawyers Speak,
a network of prisoners who are helping organize
the nationwide strike.
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Cole Dorsey, let’s begin with you.
You’re a part of the video that we just
saw.
Lay out what this what’s expected to be
a several-week strike is about.
Yeah, so, the prisoners—this has been completely
prisoner-led.
Jailhouse Lawyers Speak can speak more to
that.
But due to the brutality in Lee correctional
facility earlier this year, it was decided
that action had to be taken now.
And that led to this list of demands, 10 demands,
that are really just a human rights declaration
of basic demands that we would ask of any
human across the world.
But especially now that we’re going to start
using prisons as warehouses, these issues
are more and more relevant, as overcrowding
prison conditions, lack of resources and for
prisoners to gain those resources, and the
continued institution of racism that it enforces,
from chattel slavery.
So, while those things continue, these conditions
will only exacerbate into what they were in
Lee correctional facility in South Carolina,
where nine prisoners were murdered.
And yes, it was a, quote-unquote, “gang
situation,” but it was initiated by the
guard officials.
In my involvement in prison, they fed on that
division among prisoners, whether it be religious
or racial, so that they kept fighting amongst
themselves instead of addressing the issues
that were core demands for all of us, whether
it be the exorbitant rates of commissary or
the conditions or the torture or treatment
or solitary.
So, they really feed on those things.
And that’s what’s really important about
this strike and continuing on.
And what we’ve learned from the prison hunger
strikes is an agreement to end hostilities.
So, while there may be differences on religious
and racial boundaries, we can still come together
over these core demands, like this list of
10 demands that these prisoners have drafted.
And again, the demands are?
Yet, the demands—you know, specifically,
number one is the immediate improvements to
all the conditions of prisons, and prison
policies that recognize the humanity.
Again, I said this whole declaration is really
a declaration of humanity.
But the humanity of imprisoned men and women—this
is now almost 2.5 million people.
These are our sons and daughters and mothers
and fathers.
These are people that are neighbors in our
community, especially most marginalized working-class,
poor people, black and brown people especially.
So, an end to the draconian, racist laws,
like gang enhancements, that automatically
increase a person’s bid by 10 years just
because of their last name or their uncle
or where they’re from, what part of town.
It can be completely arbitrary.
But, again, that points to the issue that
it’s more about warehousing than it is about
rehabilitation, or even making money through
these corporations that do profit the millions.
But some other demands are like Pell Grants
for prisoners.
They should be paid for the work that they
do.
Why should prisoners—when I was in, I got
13 cents an hour, so I was a disgruntled employee.
I chose to find ways to sabotage my lawnmower
so I didn’t have to mow the lawn.
I don’t want to have to mow the lawn for
13 cents an hour, you know, so I’m going
to run over rocks and bushes.
But it gets you out of the cell.
That’s why people take these jobs.
Or they give you incentives, you know, to
have more freedom or have an extra cake during
dinner, those kinds of things.
So, the major demands are Pell Grants reinstated;
the end of the Prison Litigation Reform Act,
so prisoners can start to, again, fight some
of the conditions in the legal courts and
have access to the legal library on a real
basis, where they can really get the material
and have assistance; an end to oversentencing,
of black and brown people especially, the
most marginalized communities; end to the
racist gang enhancements.
And again, no—we believe no human being
should spend the rest of their life in prison.
Most of these conditions, as some of the other
strike leaders had mentioned, especially the
lead-up to 2016, was that if these jobs that
they’re now giving to prisoners—meat packing
and call center workers—if they were giving
at a prevailing wage in those same communities
that those prisoners came from prior, then
they wouldn’t be in the prisons now.
But the system has recognized that it’s
easier to control the population while they’re
inside prisons than it is if they’re outside,
because then they have the right to strike,
they have federal protections, whereas inside
it can just be called an insurrection.
Automatically, the leaders are sent to solitary.
Automatically, they’re transferred.
Automatically, privileges are denied—no
more family, no more phone calls.
So, from a social justice and human rights
aspect, it’s really draconian, and it’s
a lost era.
Cole, I want to bring—
And the only way their voices are going to
be heard is through us on the outside amplifying
their voices and letting it be heard and known
as much as we can through medias like this.
Cole Dorsey, I want to bring Amani Sawari
into the conversation.
Can you talk about the various actions?
And, I mean, this is planned for something
like 17 states.
What form these actions will take, Amani?
So, it really depends on the location and
the status of the prisoner.
So, as you mentioned earlier, prisoners have
the ability to participate in the strike in
a multitude of ways, one being work stoppages.
So, if prisoners do have jobs in the prison,
they can participate by refusing to go into
work.
But some prisoners don’t have the privilege
to have a job, so they can participate through
a sit-in, which would just be prisoners coming
together and sitting in a common area, refusing
to move, doing so peacefully.
Some prisoners don’t have access to being
a part of general population, so they can
participate by boycotting.
And this is done through just not spending
any money in the prison.
All of the money that prisoners spend or that
families send into the prison do support the
system.
So prisoners are refusing to talk on the phone—that’s
a cost—even buying commissary, as you mentioned,
or buying clothes, hygiene products, cosmetic
products.
Anything that they would be spending money
on in the prison, they’re refusing to do
so for those two-and-a-half weeks.
And then, for prisoners that don’t even
have access to spending money, they don’t
have the privileges to do that.
They’ll be participating through hunger
strikes.
So, regardless of where a prisoner is or what
their status is, they are given food, and
they can refuse to take that food.
And that’s a way that they can participate
in the strike, regardless of where they are
or what their privilege status is.
Cole just mentioned, in the list of demands,
ending gang enhancement laws.
Amani, explain what they are.
So, racist gang enhancements are the act of
labeling individuals with different gang associations
just based on where they’re from or even
the tattoo markings on their body.
Those might be associated with a gang, and
then prisoners are then labeled with that
gang.
And then, when they get into prison, really
being a part of a gang is one of the only
forms of insurance that a prisoner might have.
So even if they weren’t associated with
a gang prior to being incarcerated, they find
themselves in those populations.
And then, when prisoners refuse to be a part
of a gang, they are subject to isolation.
So, that’s really miserable being isolated
within an isolated place.
So a lot of prisoners just gravitate towards
their racial groups, different gang groups,
based on locations where they were from, the
people that they see from high school, and
then they just gravitate towards those groups.
And then those labels are used against prisoners.
So, where they’re placed in the prison,
where their room assignment is, that is determined
by the gang that they’re in.
And then, when staff officials want to incite
violence, they’ll switch up those room assignments,
place gang members and rival groups into different
assignments, which is what happened in Lee
County.
Prisoners were—their lockers were taken
away, and then they were placed into rival
units, which incited violence.
And that went on for over seven hours.
And that’s when how many people died?
Seven people were killed, prisoners?
Yes, at least seven people were killed, but
there have been numbers of nine and 12.
Actually, when prisoners were killed, a few
were transferred to other prisons to sort
of lower those numbers.
But seven is the official number of prisoners
that were killed.
Cole, how do you organize?
You’re on the other side of the bars now.
You’re free.
How are you helping to organize this strike
on the outside?
Yeah, so there’s a number of ways that we’ve
learned to adapt to organize, and number one
is through correspondence.
We have regular correspondence.
We do have members.
I’ve got a phone call in my pocket that
I keep on me 24 hours a day, and I receive
phone calls from different facilities across
the country, typically on the West Coast.
But I can relay messages from one facility,
within one facility to the same facility,
just in different cellblocks, to let know
what movement is happening, what’s going
on.
We found a number of different ways.
The Bay View has been instrumental in getting
the word out.
San Francisco Bay View has been a publication
for a number of years.
The newspaper.
It’s gone into facilities across the country,
and it’s really been pivotal in spreading
the word of this type of collective action
that prisoners have been taking.
But there’s a number of different ways that
we’ve found to creatively get the message
through to prisoners.
And a lot of times it’s word of mouth.
So, we’ll send a thousand or 500 newsletters
in, that just, you know, are innocuous on
the front, that describe, “It’s winter.
These are the things to stay warm and cool.”
And buried on the inside, in very small text,
would be the actual important information
that we want to get through.
They found those out, and we anticipate they
will, but the number that get through is enough
to be able to transfer from prisoner to prisoner.
And again, as their—our leaders especially
are transferred.
Imam Siddique Hasan, even in the lead-up to
this strike, has been withdrawn his phone
privileges, thrown in solitary.
And our leaders consistently have been retaliated
against physically and also tortured through
solitary confinement.
So, it’s not to be taken lightly.
But we’ve found, through telephone communication,
connection, relationships with families, getting
information, also direct communication through
visits, and a number of different creative
ways, that we can’t explain all to you—
You’re an electrical line—Cole, you’re
an electric—
—but we definitely can get the word out.
And the great part is that prisoners share
this information.
So, even if it’s only sent to one person,
that gets shared to another person, that goes
to another facility.
So, it can get shared either through word
of mouth or directly through the piece of
paper.
But word travels quickly throughout prisons.
Well, you’re clearly redefining a cellphone.
Cole Dorsey is an electrical lineman who’s
a member of the IWW’s Incarcerated Workers
Organizing Committee.
Amani Sawari is a prison strike spokesperson.
And we’re going to continue with them, as
well as Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Heather
Ann Thompson when we come back from break.
[break]
“George Jackson” by Bob Dylan.
That’s right.
George Jackson, 47 years ago, he was killed
by guards at San Quentin when he attempted
to escape.
