AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we look at the resistance
against nuclear weapons here in the United
States.
Last April 4th, the 50th anniversary of Martin
Luther King’s assassination, seven Catholic
Plowshares activists secretly entered Naval
Submarine Base Kings Bay in Georgia, one of
the largest nuclear submarine bases in the
world, armed with just hammers, crime scene
tape, baby bottles containing their own blood,
and an indictment charging the U.S. government
with crimes against peace.
Their goal: to symbolically disarm the nuclear
weapons at the base, which is home to at least
six nuclear ballistic missile submarines.
Each submarine carries 20 Trident thermonuclear
weapons.
The activists said they were following the
prophet Isaiah’s command to “beat swords
into plowshares.”
It was the latest of a hundred similar anti-nuclear
Plowshares actions around the world beginning
in 1980 in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.
That first Plowshares act was led by the late
Daniel and Philip Berrigan.
Phil’s wife, Liz McAlister, was one of the
seven arrested at the April 4th action.
Liz McAlister and two other activists, Jesuit
priest Stephen Kelly and Mark Colville, remain
locked up in pretrial confinement in Brunswick
Georgia.
Four others—Patrick O’Neill, Carmen Trotta,
Martha Hennessy and Clare Grady—are under
house arrest.
All seven could face years in prison, if convicted.
Well, I recently spoke to Martha Hennessy
and Carmen Trotta here in New York at Mary
House, a Catholic Worker home here in the
city.
Hennessy is the granddaughter of Dorothy Day,
the founder of the Catholic Worker movement.
Carmen Trotta helps run the St. Joseph Catholic
Worker House here in the city.
I spoke to them shortly before Clare Grady
was released and put under house arrest.
I began by asking Martha Hennessy about what
they did when they entered the nuclear sub
base April 4th.
MARTHA HENNESSY: I was with my friends, seven
of us.
And we spent nearly two years discerning and
praying about what we could do.
And we walked onto the base at Kings Bay.
It’s not a well-known site of the U.S. military.
And we walked there on behalf of people who
couldn’t do such a thing or take such an
action.
And we walked there to expose the Trident
nuclear arsenal.
And we symbolically disarmed the nuclear weapons.
We were not anywhere near nuclear weapons.
But Carmen’s group got a little bit closer
to the bunkers.
But, essentially, we left Daniel Ellsberg’s
book, The Doomsday Machine, there on site
at the administrative building of the Strategic
Weapons Facility of the Atlantic.
We posted an indictment on the doors of the
facility.
We also had banners that read, “The ultimate
logic of Trident is omnicide.”
And we put up crime tape.
AMY GOODMAN: And where did you go?
Where did your—
MARTHA HENNESSY: I was at the administration
building.
AMY GOODMAN: And why did you feel this was
so important to do?
MARTHA HENNESSY: I believe that the United
States nuclear arsenal is the linchpin of
white imperialism being wrought upon the world.
I think that we have used these nuclear weapons
in ways, since Hiroshima 73 years ago.
We have used this threat against the world
in many different ways throughout history.
And I felt that, for myself, I was able to
take this kind of action, to do this kind
of discernment, and offer up an effort to
wake the world to the terrible dangers that
we face.
These weapons, as long as we have them, at
some point, they will be used.
And I have had trips to Russia, Korea, South
Korea, and Iran.
And when I hear President Trump threatening
these other countries, I can only take him
seriously and take responsibility, personal
responsibility myself, to try and raise a
voice to make it obvious what is in the minds
of these war planners.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Carmen Trotta, you, together
with Martha Hennessy and five others, went
on this military base, the Kings Bay naval
base.
Describe what you did that day?
CARMEN TROTTA: Took a very long walk inside
the base.
The small group that detached with myself
wanted very much to get as close as we possibly
could to the heart of evil, which is to say
the weapons systems themselves, and therefore
we were disgruntled, really, initially, that
there were no Trident submarines being worked
on at the base at the time.
If that were so, we would have tried to get
to the Trident itself.
The fact was that that was not so at that
time, and therefore we went to go to the bunkers,
where the nuclear weapons themselves are housed,
and managed to cut a few fences and were very
perplexed by the complexity of the last fence,
frightened by it, frightened by being in a
lethal-force zone.
And as we were contemplating getting through
that last fence, there was finally, after
a couple of hours on the base, a response
from the base itself.
And then we held our banner, which said that
nuclear weapons are illegal and immoral, and
wanted to show to the military something soothing
to be able to say to them when they came.
And so, when they came, we told them immediately
that we come in peace, that we were unarmed,
that we were American citizens, that we meant
them no harm.
AMY GOODMAN: And what did you have with you
when you got to that area near the bunker?
CARMEN TROTTA: There were—we had hammers
and blood and bolt cutters.
AMY GOODMAN: What do you mean, blood?
CARMEN TROTTA: They’re vials of blood that
were taken from people in the community, so
it was our own blood.
And the blood gets used as a symbol of life.
Particularly within the Catholic and Christian
faith, blood is the symbol of life.
It is also—that level of red is also a constant
danger warning.
And as I think I tried to say before, the
Plowshares actions are designed to sort of
slap people awake to the reality that is before
them.
It is more alarm than anger.
We are more alarmed than we are angry.
Although I don’t want to put down the notion
of being angry in the sort of persistent failure
of what could and should be, you know, one
of the greatest nations in the world, and
the ongoing, persistent failure, particularly
after World War II.
AMY GOODMAN: Martha Hennessy, what happened
when you went to the administrative building?
How money people did you go with?
What did you come with?
And how did the military find you on the base?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Well, they ignored us for
a while.
They had their hands full with the people
at the bunker.
They were most concerned about the people
at the bunker.
AMY GOODMAN: With your group?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: With Carmen and his group.
MARTHA HENNESSY: The three people.
And so, I was with one other person.
And the two of us brought little hammers and
vials of blood and Dan Ellsberg’s book,
The Doomsday Machine.
And we put up our posters, and we saw that
there were people working in the building.
And we did not go into the building.
The door was unlocked.
But it was very quiet, very eerie.
AMY GOODMAN: And what happened when the soldiers
came?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Well, we were able to post
our indictment and pour our blood and write
“Love one another” and “May love disarm
us all.”
We wrote that on the sidewalks.
And then we joined two other people who were
at the display, the missile display, which
welcomes visitors into the complex.
And we joined them, and we probably were there
for perhaps an hour, in both settings, before—we
saw the cars going towards the other site,
where our friends were.
But they didn’t bother to handle us until
at least an hour later.
AMY GOODMAN: Who were you with?
MARTHA HENNESSY: I was with Clare Grady, Patrick
O’Neill and Mark Colville.
AMY GOODMAN: And they are?
MARTHA HENNESSY: They’re all still—well,
Patrick is out.
Three of us are released.
We have family members to attend to.
And four are still in.
Clare, Elizabeth McAlister, Stephen Kelly
and Mark Colville are all still at the Brunswick
detention facility.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about the people
you were there with?
Can you talk about Liz McAlister and the significance
of her engaging in this Plowshares action?
She is one of those who remains imprisoned,
has now been in prison since April 4th.
That’s three months.
CARMEN TROTTA: Right.
You often hear of the Berrigans.
Every time you hear of the Berrigans, you
should think of Liz McAlister, because she
is—you could say she is certainly among
the Berrigans.
And I think, you know, a very compelling force
in drawing this community together was that,
at this kind of late stage in her life, she
still had the heart and courage and soul to
want to confront this enormous crime, war
crime, ongoing, something that the family
had engaged in for years.
I mean, after—these are—you know, the
Berrigans, along with Liz, after the war in
Vietnam, they recognized—having recognized
the horror of Vietnam, having resisted it
persistently for years, when the war finally
ended, they said, “OK, so this episode,
this episode of American history, has ended.
The empire is still here.
And the empire needs to be exposed by an informed
citizenry, if we are to continue to live in
a democracy.”
And they’ve been fighting that battle until
the present day.
Indeed, our action was the latest version
of it.
AMY GOODMAN: There have been scores of Plowshares
actions ever since Liz McAlister’s husband,
Phil Berrigan, and her brother-in-law, Dan
Berrigan, led that action on the King of Prussia
GE plant in 1980, almost 40 years ago.
Explain what the Plowshares movement is, why
it’s called Plowshares.
CARMEN TROTTA: Well, comes out of the prophecy
from Isaiah 2:4, that there would come a point
in time where men, people of faith, would
beat swords into plowshares, spears into pruning
hooks.
We would no longer wage war upon—nations
would no longer wage war upon other.
Nor would they study war anymore.
Nor would they study war anymore to get better
and better at it, to continue in that drive
of violence, of competition.
AMY GOODMAN: This wasn’t Liz McAlister’s
first Plowshares action?
CARMEN TROTTA: No, no, no.
She did one—I think it was in ’83.
MARTHA HENNESSY: 1983, the Griffiss Air Force
Base.
AMY GOODMAN: Was your first action, Carmen?
CARMEN TROTTA: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Martha, this—was this your
first action?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Yes, my first Plowshares
action.
AMY GOODMAN: What made you decide to engage
in this?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Well, I had participated
in a previous group, and the discussion around
the fact that this kind of a process brings
us to a place of self-disarmament really resonated
with me.
And I wanted to understand that at a deeper
level.
If we are trying to live lives, Christ-like
lives, of caring for those who most needy
and opposing war, I felt that I needed to
really explore what this kind of an action
would look like.
It’s a faith journey for me.
It certainly has deepened my faith and understanding
of what it means to be a follower of Christ
in our own times.
But it’s that self-disarmament.
And that also goes along with the work that
we do with taking care of the homeless, where
we must wear the rough edges off of ourselves
to make ourselves holier and more available
to this kind of work, that willingness to
self-sacrifice.
AMY GOODMAN: So, can you talk about the charges
against you now and the years in prison that
you face?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Yes.
We were initially given state charges, which
a month later were turned into federal charges.
And the four charges are—and we considered
having four charges to be very redundant.
But they are conspiracy, trespass, depredation
of government property, destruction of naval
property—something like that.
And I think, for each count—the trespass
is a misdemeanor, facing six months, but the
others are more serious, anywhere from five
to 10 years.
But they tend to threaten us with the worst,
because they do not want citizens going onto
these military bases.
And so, yes, we do face serious charges.
AMY GOODMAN: Now let’s talk about the trial.
Will you be able to bring up your reasons
for doing what you did?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Highly unlikely.
I mean, the federal courts have done an excellent
job, since 1980, of disallowing any kind of
necessity defense.
Of course, we want to talk about the Nuremberg
principles.
We want to talk about the Geneva Conventions.
We want to talk about nuclear weapons, Trident
submarine system.
But typically what has occurred is prosecution
demands a whole list of terms that cannot
be presented.
So the jury never hears who we are, what we
did, why we did what we did.
AMY GOODMAN: So what do they think?
You went onto the base and…
MARTHA HENNESSY: Everything gets reduced to
destruction of property and trespass.
So, we end up focusing on cut fences rather
than focusing on what’s behind those fences.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, your lawyers have presented
a motion to dismiss in court.
And among those they cited were the declarations
of Catholic Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, who declared
that the actions of the Kings Bay Plowshares
are totally consistent with and supported
by Catholic social teaching that any use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons is totally
immoral.
Will the jurors be able to hear this?
MARTHA HENNESSY: It will be a miracle if any
of those declarations, both from a religious
perspective, from a Physicians for Social
Responsibility perspective, from a military
perspective and from a professor of the law
perspective—it will be a miracle if any
of those testimonies get into the court.
AMY GOODMAN: And so, why do you do what you
do?
MARTHA HENNESSY: We do what we do because
that’s what we’re called to do.
And it’s not necessarily a question of success
or failure.
And who knows?
The holy spirit works in strange ways.
Perhaps there is some kind of window in this
current climate where some of these discussions
can happen.
I mean, it’s a dialogue that desperately
needs to happen.
And the world is waiting for the U.S. courts
to do what’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: How are you preparing for years
in prison, Martha?
MARTHA HENNESSY: It’s hard to say how one
would prepare for something like that.
It’s a stripping-down process.
I mean, I spent two months recently in prison,
and that gave me a taste of what life would
be like.
And—
AMY GOODMAN: Before you were released now
with your ankle monitors.
MARTHA HENNESSY: Yes.
And, you know, the works of mercy require
us to attend to the imprisoned.
And one very good way of doing that is living
with them.
And so, I do my best to prepare emotionally
and spiritually.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Carmen, how are you preparing?
CARMEN TROTTA: I’m not sure that there is
a way to prepare.
I will say that there came a point—so, I
didn’t mind that—my initial fears of going
to prison had to do with violence among the
prisoners.
And I saw almost none of that.
In fact, I saw a lot of cohesion amongst the
prisoners.
There was the potential for violence from
the guards.
But it was after two months that for the first
time I realized that the great—the greatest
fear about prison is depression about having
your life so neutralized, so stopped short,
which is why I say write cards to people,
keep in touch with people, see how they’re
feeling in prison, because there did come
a time where I thought to myself, “You know,
brother, you are sleeping too much, because
there’s nothing outside that cell door to
go to, and you need to sort of change that
and get out there.”
And I had a Guatemalan cellmate, who was a
joy to me.
And so, in many ways, he kept me sane.
AMY GOODMAN: Was he an immigrant prisoner?
CARMEN TROTTA: Oh, yeah.
There were five of them in our cell.
AMY GOODMAN: Immigrant detainees?
CARMEN TROTTA: Yeah, yeah.
They had been—there are five of them.
They’re all sort of heroic.
They came here to labor and send money back
to their families.
And yeah—and they were a remarkably good
set of people.
I wish I spoke Spanish and could have gotten
more deeply involved with them.
In fact, I forgot my roommate’s name immediately
upon hearing it.
He forgot my name or couldn’t believe, perhaps,
that my name was Carmen.
And so, I always called him compañero, and
he always called me “my friend” or “sir,”
“sir, my friend.”
AMY GOODMAN: So, as we move into the 73rd
anniversary of the dropping of the nuclear
bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and you move
towards your trial, starting with President
Obama, then on to President Trump, there is
a multibillion-dollar, they call it, updating
of the nuclear arsenal, and that’s moving
forward.
President Trump is castigating his NATO allies
to spend more money on military, to engage
in more military spending, demanding this
of Germany and France and other NATO allies.
Your final thoughts, Martha Hennessy?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Well, William Hartung has
spoken to that with regards to the cost.
I mean, it is a theft from the poor.
It is bleeding our society.
These billions of dollars are going directly
into the pockets of a very few weapons manufacturer.
There’s no democratic aspect to this process
whatsoever.
A lot of the decision-making is very hidden,
very secret.
Donald Trump is taking care of his friends.
And it’s an absolute theft from the globe.
And it’s also an environmental catastrophe.
So—
AMY GOODMAN: In what way?
MARTHA HENNESSY: Well, just there have already
been probably a million casualties, what with
the actual dropping of the two bombs on these
open cities, but also in the production and
the open-air testing, Rocky Flats, Hanford,
Oak Ridge—
CARMEN TROTTA: Marshall Islands.
MARTHA HENNESSY: —Marshall Island peoples.
All of these people have been affected over
the decades.
There have been many, many, many casualties
already.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, Carmen Trotta?
CARMEN TROTTA: It’s the ongoing sort of
promotion of competition as opposed to cooperation—cooperation
with the Earth, with the planet, cooperation
with other human communities.
Your friend, very much admired here, Noam
Chomsky, talks about the end of organized
life, that what we are looking at in 2018,
what the next generation is looking at, is
the end of organized life.
And the two things that he goes on in the
speech about are global warming, on one hand,
and the nuclear arms race.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Carmen Trotta, who helps
run the St. Joseph Catholic Worker House here
in New York City, and Martha Hennessy, granddaughter
of Dorothy Day, the founder of the Catholic
Worker movement.
I spoke to them at Mary House, the other Catholic
Worker house here in New York City, both wearing
ankle monitors before trial, so the government
can track them.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, what’s happening in Israel
and Palestine.
Stay with us.
