AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, I'm Amy Goodman.
On Thursday, the FBI confirmed
it had received a tip about someone who went
by the name Nikolas Cruz online.
That’s Nikolas spelled with a K, N-I-K-O-L-A-S,
an unusual spelling.
The FBI was notified by a YouTube user after
Cruz left a threatening comment on a video.
This is FBI Special Agent Robert Lasky.
ROBERT LASKY: In 2017, the FBI received information
about a comment made on a YouTube channel.
The comment simply said, “I’m going to
be a professional school shooter.”
No other information was included with that
comment which would indicate a time, location
or the true identity of the person who made
the comment.
The FBI conducted database reviews, checks,
but was unable to further identify the person
who actually made the comment.
AMY GOODMAN: Meanwhile, more evidence has
emerged showing the Florida school gunman,
Nikolas Cruz, shared a common trait with many
other men who have carried out mass shootings:
He had a record of abusing and threatening
women.
One student told The New York Times Nikolas
Cruz was abusive towards his ex-girlfriend,
was expelled after getting in a fight with
her new boyfriend.
Another student told The New York Times he
had been close friends with Cruz but cut him
off after he started going after and threatening
a female friend of his.
And Cruz’s former math teacher told the
Times he was taken with another student to
the point of stalking her.
Fellow students also said Cruz was known for
holding extreme political views.
On Thursday, a white nationalist hate group
called the Republic of Florida Militia claimed
the gunman was a member who had trained with
the militia, but the group’s leader later
walked back that claim.
The former classmates of Cruz did describe
him as politically extreme.
A 17-year-old junior named Ocean Parodie told
The Daily Beast Cruz—quote, “For example,
he would degrade Islamic people as terrorists
and bombers.
I’ve seen him wear a Trump hat.”
Cruz once posted a photograph on Instagram
wearing a mask and a red “Make America Great
Again” hat.
CNN also aired footage of a shirtless Cruz
wearing the same hat, shooting a gun in his
backyard, that was taken by a next-door neighbor.
A 16-year-old junior, Josh Charo, who was
in JROTC with Cruz—that’s the military
training program for high school kids—said
Cruz often expressed racist beliefs.
Charo told The Daily Beast, “He would always
talk about how he felt whites were a bit higher
than everyone.
He’d be like, 'My people are over here industrializing
the world and starting new things, while your
people [meaning blacks and Latinos] are just
taking up space.'”
In a comment he posted to a YouTube video,
Nikolas Cruz also singled out anti-fascist
protesters, known as Antifa, to threaten mass
murder.
His comment read, “Im going watch them sheep
fall f— antifa i wish to kill as many as
i can.”
Well, we’re joined right now by two guests.
In Philadelphia, George Ciccariello-Maher
is with us, visiting scholar at the Hemispheric
Institute at New York University, author of
Decolonizing Dialectics.
And Trevor Aaronson is with us from Florida,
the executive director and co-founder of the
Florida Center for Investigative Reporting,
a nonprofit journalism organization, also
a contributing writer to The Intercept.
Trevor, let’s begin with you.
What needs to be understood right now about
what took place in Florida?
TREVOR AARONSON: [inaudible] that we’d be
having much more of today, if Nikolas Cruz’s
name was Mohammed Mohammed, would be, you
know: What was the FBI’s intelligence failure
in this?
I mean, if you consider the media response
and the public outcry following Omar Mateen’s
shooting in Orlando, the large question was:
How did we miss this?
How did the FBI miss this?
And I think what you’re seeing is that the
FBI has the mechanisms, through processes
called threat assessments, to conduct wide-ranging
investigations for people who may pose a threat
to people or public safety, and that in Omar
Mateen’s case, we saw two of those conducted
for—you know, the basis being someone had
mentioned to the FBI that Omar Mateen knew
the Boston Marathon bombers, and that justified
an investigation where the FBI interviewed
Mateen, looked through his records.
By contrast, here in Nikolas Cruz’s case,
he posted on YouTube, making threatening statements.
Given the unusual spelling of his first name,
given that he used his real name on the social
media comments, you know, it’s a little
bit hard to believe that the FBI did not have
an opportunity to dig up some information
in records, including gun purchase records,
that would have been able to at least give
them some reason to continue that investigation.
And so, I think what we’re seeing here is
really a question of what did the FBI know
and whether they should have pursued this
more aggressively.
You know, I think what we know from previous
investigations, that if they believed that
Nikolas Cruz was, you know, involved in kind
of radical ideologies involving Islam, such
as ISIS or al-Qaeda, we would have seen a
much more vigorous investigation than what
we’ve seen so far, based on what the FBI
has come forward with on its investigation
of Nikolas Cruz.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, the suspect, Nikolas
Cruz, reportedly commented on YouTube, “I’m
going to be a professional school shooter,”
again, with his name, with the spelling of
his name.
And between 2010 and now, the local police
visited him, according to CNN, 39 times, his
family, for domestic violence or a mentally
ill individual at his house.
His neighbors talk about how the police were
always coming there.
There is a serious—and yet, FBI said, you
know, “We can’t begin to find something
like this.”
TREVOR AARONSON: Yeah, I think it’s important
to remember that, you know, post-9/11, the
government created a number of entities, or
beefed up a number of entities, that would
have allowed for the greater sharing of information
and intelligence from police agencies to federal
law enforcement.
A big part of that is the creation of joint
terrorism task forces around the country.
And one of the largest of those in the nation
is in South Florida, and that facilitates
the sharing of information, intelligence,
from local police to federal law enforcement.
And the way the system is supposed to work—I
mean, this system was designed, in large part,
to find the next 9/11 attackers, so to speak.
But it’s also designed to find people like
Nikolas Cruz, who, you know, pose a significant
threat to public safety.
And the way the system is supposed to work
is that by identifying threats, such as the
YouTube comment he made, in his own name,
you know, not using an alias and seemingly
not using a VPN to shield his IP address,
that type of tip should have been processed
through something like a JTTF, that may have
unearthed the police visits in his home in
Broward County.
You know, I think it’s important to recognize
that, obviously, it’s easy to play Monday
morning quarterback here and say, “Here’s
what the FBI missed.”
But I also think it’s important to point
out that this is really the FBI’s job, that
post-9/11 its primary purpose has been to
find threats before they happen.
And that doesn’t just involve people who
are inspired by ISIS and al-Qaeda.
It also involves people who are inspired by
other radical ideologies, or, you know, frankly,
who are, as Donald Trump pointed out, mentally
ill.
I mean, the goal is, no matter what the ideology
or the purpose, that if someone poses a significant
threat, these information-sharing processes
are supposed to be able to help the FBI identify
the person before they commit their crime.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn for a moment to
a guest we had on recently.
Shortly after the Pulse nightclub shooting
in Orlando, that was in June 2016, not so
far away from where the Parkland shooting
has just happened, Democracy Now!
spoke to Soraya Chemaly, and I asked her about
this often-overlooked connection between domestic
violence and mass shootings.
SORAYA CHEMALY: You see repeatedly in these
cases of mass violence, particularly where
four or more people are killed, that the perpetrator
had a history of attacking an intimate partner,
a parent.
It happened in the Boston massacre.
It happened in Sandy Hook.
And so, for many of us, you kind of just wait
for this information to come to the surface.
And we wonder: Why is it that this kind of
behavior isn’t seen as an essential element
to understanding lethality in public violence?
…
If you have a person living in your community
that is violently abusive towards his family,
that is a concern for the broader community.
In this case in Orlando, which is often the
case, there seems to be no report made to
the police, which means that we’re inhibited
as a society from taking further action.
So, he, for example, was completely able to
go and legally get guns.
We have a federal law that should have prohibited
that, if, for example, he had had a restraining
order.
But more than 50 states actually do not have
laws that support that.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s journalist Soraya
Chemaly.
And again, just to reiterate, one student
told The New York Times Nikolas Cruz was abusive
towards his ex-girlfriend, was expelled after
getting in a fight with her new boyfriend.
Another student told the Times he had been
close friends with Cruz but cut him off after
he started going after and threatening a female
friend of his.
A math teacher said he was bothering another
female student to the point of stalking her.
George Ciccariello-Maher, respond to this.
GEORGE CICCARIELLO-MAHER: [inaudible] whatsoever.
And, you know, this shooter, who is apparently
a white supremacist, is also and has also
been violent toward women in his life.
This is something that we have known.
This is not a surprise.
These things go hand in hand, because white
supremacy and patriarchy are violent structures
of power that, when frustrated, lead to violent
conclusions.
And yet, when we say this over and over again
in the media, it’s treated as if it’s
the first time anyone has ever heard it.
And all of the data and all the information
that we have out there has everything, you
know, to tell us that this is actually accurate.
And, you know, this is what was said after
the Las Vegas—after the Las Vegas shooting,
when it came out that the shooter had been,
in public, violently aggressive toward his
own partner.
And it happens repeatedly in cases like this.
And it’s really frustrating to have to say
over and over again, you know, that this correlation
exists, that violence toward women, in this
case, also violence toward animals, this sort
of violent outlet of aggression across this
person’s life, has something to do with
feelings of dominance that are also expressed
in what is apparently white supremacist ideology,
as well.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, this issue of the connection
to white supremacy, let me go back to Trevor,
then to George.
Trevor Aaronson, this issue of the link of
a person from a Florida white supremacist
group saying that Nikolas Cruz trained with
them, but now walking it back?
TREVOR AARONSON: Yeah, so, initially, we had
a number of reports, that were first initiated
by some research that was done by the Anti-Defamation
League, that linked Nikolas Cruz to a group
based in Tallahassee called the Republic of
Florida, which is a white nationalist group
that says it’s trying to bring about, you
know, a white-only state of Florida.
And what the leader of that group said, Jacob
Jered, was that Nikolas Cruz had trained with
them and was a member of their group.
And, in fact, in a subsequent interview with
The Daily Beast, Jacob Jered said that they
had actually purchased a weapon for him and
had trained with him in Tallahassee, as well.
Later, on Gab, which is a Twitter-like social
media platform that was set up to provide
a home for white supremacists who had been
kicked off Twitter for their odious views,
Jacob—I’m sorry, Jacob Jered, the leader
of the Republic of Florida, walked that back
and basically said, “Oh, you know, we have
a number of people named Nikolas, and I got
confused.”
And so, it’s hard to know if Jacob Jered
was just using this tragedy as a way of, you
know, getting his organization’s name out
there.
And if that’s the case, you know, it certainly
worked.
Or, you know, it’s also possible that Nikolas
Cruz did have some white supremacist views.
The sourcing on that is a little bit shaky
right now, and it’s hard to know.
I mean, based on some of the comments that
he made against Antifa, for example, I mean,
certainly there was some political ideology
on the right, but at the same time it’s
is a little bit unclear, I think, whether
he was indeed a part of a white supremacist
group or identified with a white supremacist
ideology.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, you have his
friends saying he was Islamophobic, he was
saying whites were superior to blacks and
Latinos.
And then, continuing on this issue of the
connection between this kind of racism and
his misogyny.
TREVOR AARONSON: Yeah.
I mean, getting back to the point I was making
earlier about how, you know, the FBI’s threat
assessment system is designed to establish
these kind of warning signs and piece them
together and put together a profile of who
might be dangerous, and then allocate resources
accordingly, whether that’s dropping by
Nikolas Cruz’s house to interview him and
maybe scaring him straight or to, you know,
build a case to put together a file that might
give you reason to suspect that he could be
dangerous in the future.
But, you know, certainly, the comments that
he made on YouTube and certainly the kind
of racist comments that he had made or—you
know, a threat assessment, for example, could
involve the interviewing of students, of friends,
and that’s the type of process that would
unearth the things that the media has since
unearthed, which is that Nikolas Cruz seemed
to have some right-wing beliefs that may have
bordered on violence.
And, you know, had the FBI investigated this,
as you see them investigate cases of possible
Islamic extremism, I think it’s a fair argument
to make that what the FBI would have known
about Nikolas Cruz would have been much more
significant than what it did when the shootings
happened, which was basically that the FBI
has admitted to knowing very little, if anything,
about Nikolas Cruz at the time of the attack.
AMY GOODMAN: The issue of Nikolas Cruz being
involved with JROTC, with Junior ROTC, George
Ciccariello-Maher, if you could talk abut
your concerns about this?
Also one of the young women who was killed
was also a member of JROTC.
GEORGE CICCARIELLO-MAHER: I think we should,
you know, be very attentive to all of these
factors.
It’s difficult to draw out of his involvement
in what is, you know, a very widespread military
training program.
We should, of course, however, be aware that
these are—you know, these are military training
programs for a U.S. government that’s involved
in mass violence abroad.
And we shouldn’t always be surprised to
see that violence brought home.
I think we should focus very sharply in this
case, though, on this question of white supremacist
organizing.
I know there are a lot of details going back
and forth about it.
I wouldn’t be surprised that the—you know,
the founder of this white nationalist organization
is walking it back out of fear of the scrutiny
that he’s going to receive.
As I understand it, it was also confirmed
by ABC via several classmates that he had
been involved in this group.
And I think we need to be aware of the fact
that the last year has seen a dramatic uptick
in open white supremacist, white nationalist
violence.
We know that these are violent organizations.
We know that they’re breeding violence.
We’ve seen it in Charlottesville.
We’ve seen it when Milo’s supporters have
opened fire, you know, on others.
And supporters of Richard Spencer have encouraged
violence at protests.
And we need to—you know, at the same time,
we’re told that these are just ideas in
the great marketplace of ideas to be debated
and discussed.
But what we need to realize is that you don’t
discuss white supremacy.
You don’t debate it.
You destroy it.
You out-organize it.
And that’s something that we need to be
doing on a much broader level, while we’re
trying to grapple with what’s gone on in
this instance, because we see people being
radicalized.
Of course, if they were, you know, Muslim,
they would be—you know, the question of
where were they radicalized has become a bit
of a meme, and yet we don’t ask this question
when it comes to these radicalized white youth,
who are—you know, who are involved in this
mass violence, who are in discussion groups.
This is the second—if this is true about
his white supremacist ties, this is the second
“alt-right” school shooting in two months,
the last one in New Mexico by someone who
was actively involved in The Daily Stormer,
one of the most violent right-wing, anti-Semitic
websites on the far right.
And this association is direct, and yet we
had Trump eliminating almost all oversight
of, you know, scrutiny toward white supremacist
groups.
Even Obama had been cutting that funding.
And so, we know that the government is not—has
no interest in prosecuting and undermining
white supremacist organizations, and that
organizations on the ground are going to need
to do that themselves.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we’re going to leave
it there.
I want to thank you both for being with us,
Trevor Aaronson, for joining us from St. Petersburg,
with the Florida Center for Investigative
Reporting and The Intercept; George Ciccariello-Maher,
visiting scholar at the Hemispheric Institute
at New York University, speaking to us from
Philadelphia.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we go to Johannesburg,
South Africa.
There’s a new president of South Africa,
Cyril Ramaphosa.
What happened to Jacob Zuma?
Stay with us.
