JUAN GONZÁLEZ: We begin today with news that
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has pledged
to abandon his nuclear weapons if the United
States agrees to formally end the Korean War
and promises not to invade his country.
This comes after an historic meeting Friday
between Kim and South Korean leader Moon Jae-in
in the truce village of Panmunjom.
During the meeting, which was broadcast live
on the Korean Peninsula and around the world,
the two leaders held hands and pledged to
work for peace and replace the 1953 armistice
with a formal truce.
On Sunday, North Korea’s state media said
Kim had vowed to immediately suspend nuclear
and missile tests, and would dismantle its
Punggye-ri Nuclear Test Site.
Some analysts say the site has been unusable
since a massive test last September caused
an earthquake so big that satellites captured
images of the mountain above the site actually
moving.
But a South Korean presidential spokesman
said that while some facilities are not functioning,
others remain in good condition.
He also told reporters Kim had called for
the United States to meet often with the North.
YOON YOUNG-CHAN: [translated] Leader Kim said
that if North Korea meets the United States
more often, builds on trust and promises to
end war and nonaggression, why should we have
nuclear weapons, which make our life difficult?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: This comes as President Trump
has pressed North Korea to dismantle its nuclear
program ahead of a summit with Kim in May
or June, and he recently revealed that now-Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo made a secret visit to
the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, over
Easter weekend.
On Saturday, supporters chanted “Nobel”
as Trump spoke at a rally in Michigan.
TRUMP SUPPORTERS: Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
Nobel!
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: That’s very nice.
Thank you.
That’s very nice.
Nobel.
I just want to get the job done.
AMY GOODMAN: Meanwhile, Trump’s national
security adviser, John Bolton, told Fox News
Sunday Trump should be cautious about talks
with the North Korean dictator.
He was interviewed by host Chris Wallace.
JOHN BOLTON: There’s nobody in the Trump
administration starry-eyed about what—what
may happen here.
But by demonstrating they’ve made a strategic
decision to give up nuclear weapons, it would
be possible to move quickly, as, again, the
Libya case demonstrates.
CHRIS WALLACE: The North Koreans are going
to give up everything they’ve got, but,
in return, the U.S. would agree that we are
not going to allow any nuclear-armed airplanes
or nuclear-armed ships on the Korean Peninsula.
Is that acceptable?
JOHN BOLTON: Well, we certainly haven’t
made that commitment.
And again, I’m looking at the Panmunjom
Declaration, as they call it, in the context
of a series of earlier North-South Korean
agreements.
CHRIS WALLACE: So, you don’t view this as
involving any kind of commitment from the
U.S.
JOHN BOLTON: I don’t think it binds the
United States, no.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we go to Washington,
D.C., to speak with Tim Shorrock, correspondent
for The Nation and the Korea Center for Investigative
Journalism in Seoul.
He grew up in Japan and South Korea.
His latest piece headlined “South and North
Korea Prepare to Discuss an End to the Korean
War: But Washington’s pundit class seems
united against a peace process.”
And he’s in the midst of another piece that
will come out this week.
Tim, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Start off by talking about the significance
of the North Korean leader—for the first
time, a North Korean leader stepped foot in
South Korea.
What took place last week?
TIM SHORROCK: Thank you for having me, Amy.
It was an amazing sight to see Kim Jong-un
step over that border and shake hands with
Moon Jae-in.
This is, of course—you know, he’s the
highest level—he’s the only leader from
North Korea to ever step into South Korea.
And that was a symbolic step, him coming to
the South.
And their declaration, the Panmunjom Declaration,
that was just mentioned, it’s quite an amazing
document, and I really urge our listeners
to download it and read it very carefully,
because, you know, they come out very clearly
for a, you know, complete peace process.
They talk about the complete denuclearization.
They’re committed to denuclearization.
They talk about reconnecting the blood relations
of the people, determining the destiny of
the Korean nation on their own accord.
They set out very important steps for reconciliation,
such as setting up a joint liaison office,
reconnecting railroads and roads that have
been cut off in the past, and moving towards,
you know, a peace regime that involves the
United States and China and settles the Korean
War once and for all.
And it’s really quite a document.
And I think the South Korean people, you know,
were very impressed with what Kim Jong-un
said and what other members of the North Korean
delegation said.
And the whole atmosphere of it was very conducive.
And I note, you know, that Moon Jae-in, the
president, his popularity is up to 85 percent
now, precisely because of this.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Tim, I wanted to ask
you specifically about the South Korean president,
because all the media attention here seems
to focus on what Trump has done or hasn’t
done, but, really, Moon was elected in early
2017, and he has—could you talk about his
own history and why it’s been so important
that he has really boxed in, to a certain
extent, President Trump on what he can or
can’t do vis-à-vis North Korea?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, we all remember the candlelight
revolution, you know, weeks on end, millions
of Koreans into the streets to protest the
regime of Park Geun-hye a year ago, year and
a half ago.
And it was that movement that brought Moon
Jae-in to power.
I mean, his election was a snap election,
because the president was impeached.
She was very right-wing.
She was very oppressive, repressive.
And she was very hard-line toward North Korea.
People want peace with North Korea.
I was in Korea, South Korea, a year ago, and
I got to see Moon Jae-in three times in campaign
appearances in Gwangju.
And I also interviewed him for The Nation
magazine.
And his dream, at the time, was, you know,
to defuse the tension between North and South,
but to really move towards peace between North
Korea and the United States and settle this
nuclear crisis, which was really heightening
at the time.
And, you know, he was being accused at the
time of being—one, being anti-American,
which is ridiculous, and he was accused of
trying to undermine the U.S.-South Korean
alliance.
And what he told me was that, you know, if
he moved toward peace between the U.S. and
North Korea and helped do that, that this
would be good for the United States and good
for Trump.
And that’s the gamble that he took.
And I think he’s won that gamble.
And it was his diplomacy, you know, that got
the North Koreans into the South during the
Olympic Games.
They had very high-level talks then and afterwards.
And I think, you know, as a result of those
meetings, Kim Jong-un invited to meet—Trump
to meet with him.
And that’s what set the stage for all of
this.
So, I think, you know, a huge amount of credit
should go to President Moon, his government
and the people of South Korea, who have backed
this very, very strongly.
AMY GOODMAN: And I believe President Moon
said that President Trump should win the Nobel
Peace Prize for this.
And we heard on Saturday night, when Trump,
again, saying no to attending the White House
Correspondents’ dinner, went to another
Washington—Washington, Michigan—and people
in the audience chanted “Nobel!
Nobel!”
Tim Shorrock?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, we shall see.
I think that the person who might deserve
it most would be Moon.
But, you know, if Trump can get a peace agreement
with Kim Jong-un and there actually is a permanent
peace that’s verifiable on both sides, then
perhaps he might—perhaps he might deserve
such an award.
But I think that, you know, there’s a lot
of negotiations to be done.
And while I think that the—you know, clearly,
there’s questions about how denuclearization
might take place and the whole system of making
sure that does happen, verification and so
on, you know, the North Koreans, as they said,
as you mentioned at the top of the news, they
have said they will—there’s is no reason
to have nuclear weapons if the United States
vows not to attack them and the United States
signs a peace agreement.
So, the real issue also is whether or not
the U.S. can drop its decades-long hostile
policy toward North Korea, which includes
nuclear arms pointed at North Korea, which
includes sanctions and economic embargo, and
which includes attempts to overthrow and have
regime change in North Korea.
That’s a real issue, I think.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Tim, what about the role
of Kim Jong-un?
Here’s a man who was ridiculed in the American
press, mocked.
Trump called him “Little Rocket Man.”
And yet he has managed to maneuver very skillfully
through all of the shoals that his country
has faced, and now is apparently on the cusp
of a major diplomatic achievement here.
TIM SHORROCK: Well, you know, back in the
beginning of 2017, he gave a New Year’s
speech where he said, “This year we’re
going to complete our nuclear force.”
And, you know, they went forward and began
testing all these missiles.
And they had one nuclear test last year.
And at the end of the year, he said, “We
have completed our nuclear force, and we will
stop testing.”
And that’s when he made the offer, you know,
on January 1st, to meet with Moon Jae-in and
to send a delegation to the South.
So, you know, he has played this very craftily.
And he decided that he wanted to speak to
the United States, negotiate with the United
States, from a position of strength.
And, you know, he does have the weapons, though
interesting thing about his program last year
was that they stopped short of actually getting
a weapon onto a missile that can enter the
atmosphere and hit a target.
So, they do not have a nuclear-armed ICBM
that can hit the United States at this time.
They may be two or three years away from that.
So, he stopped testing, and that word got
to the White House through South Korea and
through Americans who meet from time to time
with North Korean officials.
And it was clear that he wanted to talk.
And I think that his party has made some kind
of fundamental decision to kind of shift their
focus now to building their economy and opening
up to the world.
And I think that’s what we’re seeing.
I mean, this is a very young guy.
He’s 34 years old.
He was not responsible for the past agreements
and what happened in the past with the United
States and North Korea.
He’s only been in power a few years.
But he’s clearly made a shift away from
some of the very, very hard-line rhetoric
and statements that were made.
So, that’s—I think it’s a very interesting
time.
And clearly, you know, some of his language
has changed, the way he talks about the U.S.
and South Korea.
When he was in South Korea, you know, he spoke
to the South Korean people on television.
And, you know, people were impressed.
And he actually joked about certain things,
like how bad the roads are in North Korea.
And he actually acknowledged the fact that
there are defectors, there are people leaving
North Korea.
So he’s somebody who seems to be able to
deal with the reality of the situation, and
can talk plainly about what needs to be done
to move forward to a peace process.
And I think that he really does want to fix
and improve the North Korean economy.
And this is the way to do it.
AMY GOODMAN: Let me ask you about the issue
of media coverage of the possible rapprochement
on the Korean Peninsula.
In a recent article in The New York Times
headlined “As Two Koreas Talk Peace, Trump’s
Bargaining Chips Slip Away,” Mark Landler
expressed skepticism that the meeting between
the South and North Korean leaders could be
beneficial to the U.S., concluding, quote,
“The talk of peace is likely to weaken the
two levers that Mr. Trump used to pressure
Mr. Kim to come to the bargaining table.
A resumption of regular diplomatic exchanges
between the two Koreas, analysts said, will
inevitably erode the crippling economic sanctions
against the North, while Mr. Trump will find
it hard to threaten military action against
a country that is extending an olive branch,”
unquote.
Meanwhile, Brookings Institution senior fellow
Michael O’Hanlon had this to say on Friday.
MICHAEL O’HANLON: President Trump’s going
to have to rein in his more ambitious goals
and yet still drive a relatively hard line
and not give away too much for an interim
or partial agreement.
… The denuclearization idea, however, is
a long ways from even getting seriously started,
because we’ve heard this kind of talk before.
We know that North Korea means something else
by the concept of denuclearization than we
think we hear with our Western ears.
And I haven’t seen even any realistic discussion
of what would be the first steps or any kind
of an interim deal along the way.
AMY GOODMAN: Tim Shorrock, your response to
all of these comments?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, Michael O’Hanlon has
been so wrong on so many things, like Iraq
and Afghanistan, for so long, I don’t know
why anybody is listening to him.
But he’s completely wrong.
He apparently has not read this Panmunjom
Declaration, for one thing.
But let me get back to that Times piece.
I mean, you know, I quoted from that—I quote
from that in my next article and my last one
in The Nation.
I also talked about his reporting.
I mean, that statement, that somehow it comes
out that, you know, a peace agreement is bad
for the U.S. national security because it
will prevent Trump from taking military action,
what kind of talk is that for a reporter?
He depends on all the establishment, you know,
pundits and experts in town, rounds them all
up to make this analysis.
It’s just amazing to me to see the Washington
consensus.
I mean, people here in Washington, in the
press and in the pundit class, they make fun
of North Korea for being this totalitarian
state where everyone thinks the same and has
to do what the leader says.
Well, the lockstep groupthink here in Washington
is very similar.
It’s just they all say the same thing.
You can read the same analysis that you just
heard from Brookings, that you just saw in
The New York Times, you can see that, you
know, in Post, in all these hot takes that
appear in the Post, The Atlantic, The New
Yorker.
Everybody thinks the same way in this pundit
class here in Washington.
Nobody takes Korea, South Korea, seriously,
nobody takes North Korea seriously, that South
Korea and North Korea mapped out a procedure,
a plan, to denuclearize and to decompress
and to move toward a peace regime and decrease
the tensions.
And South Korea took steps today, for example,
that they said they were going to end all
hostile acts.
One of those hostile acts is these huge speakers
they have set up in the DMZ to broadcast propaganda
and broadcast K-pop into North Korea.
They’re taking them down today.
They’re taking these steps, one by one,
to move toward this peace that’s been denied
to Korea for so long.
And I think American pundits should be—you
know, applaud South Korea for taking these
steps, and applaud North Korea.
You see these—you see these stories like,
you know, eight months ago, North Korea must
denuclearize, must say they’re going to
denuclearize.
You see this all over.
And then, all of a sudden, they say they’re
going to denuclearize, and then the headline
is “U.S. Wary of North Korea Saying They’re
Going to Denuclearize.”
I mean, you know, give it a break.
You know, open your eyes.
Try to understand what’s actually happening
in North Korea and South Korea.
And the fact is, the United States cannot
control Korea anymore.
The United States has been in Korea militarily
since 1945.
And it’s time to end this colonial-like
relationship the U.S. has with South Korea.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Tim Shorrock, I want to
thank you for being with us, correspondent
for The Nation and the Korea Center for Investigative
Journalism in Seoul.
When we come back, we look at the life and
the legacy of Dr. James Cone, who died this
weekend, the father of black liberation theology
in the United States.
AMY GOODMAN: “Feels Like Rain” by the
great jazz musician, 81-year-old Buddy Guy.
He performed last night, along with Bobby
Rush, about to turn 85, for the last night
of B.B.
King’s in New York.
The legendary jazz venue is closing down.
