This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
Today marks the 40th anniversary of a massive
police operation in Philadelphia that culminated
in the siege of the headquarters of a radical
group known as MOVE, dedicated to black liberation
and a back-to-nature lifestyle.
The group was founded by John Africa, and
all its members took the surname Africa.
It was August 8th, 1978, when police tried
to remove members of MOVE from their communal
home with water cannons and battering rams,
even as some continued to hide in the basement
with children.
This is how an eyewitness described the scene
in the documentary MOVE: Confrontation in
Philadelphia.
I was standing on the porch, 3207—3207 Pearl
Street.
And I could hear—well, it’s only about
20 feet from MOVE headquarters.
I could hear voices.
I could distinguish who was calling.
You know, I could distinguish the kids crying.
You know, very clearly, he was calling out
for help.
And two minutes later, hoses are blasted at
the house to flood MOVE members out of the
basement.
During the siege on MOVE’s house, gunfire
was exchanged, and a police officer named
James Ramp was killed.
MOVE members were beaten by officers as they
were forced out of the home, including Delbert
Africa, who was unarmed and half-naked as
TV news cameras filmed police grabbing him
by his dreadlocks, throwing him to the ground
and kicking and stomping him.
Two years later, nine MOVE members were convicted
of third-degree murder in Officer Ramp’s
death.
They were sentenced to 30 to 100 years in
prison and became known as the MOVE 9.
Well, today we look back at the attack 40
years ago, in 1978, that preceded the 1985
bombing and led to the arrest of those who
became known as the MOVE 9.
We’re joined by Debbie Africa, the first
of the nine to be released from prison.
At the time of her arrest, she was 8-and-a-half
months pregnant with her son Mike Jr.
He was born inside prison.
Then, this past June, on June 16th, after
nearly 40 years behind bars, she was released
and reunited with her son Mike, who is joining
us now, Debbie and Mike joining us from Mike’s
house just outside Philadelphia because Debbie
can’t travel into Philadelphia or come to
our studio.
We’ve done in Part 1 of this interview,
and we left Part 1 where you were describing,
Debbie, the birth of your son, who’s sitting
next to you—and I won’t exactly say towering
over you right now, but he’s clearly taller.
But if you could go back to the day that he
was born in prison, and describe in detail
for us how you did this?
You were determined not to let the prison
know, not to let the officers be involved
with the birth of Mike, named for your husband
Mike Africa, who remains behind bars and is
up for parole in a month.
Yeah, I was determined to not let them know,
because I didn’t want them to do anything
that I didn’t want done.
I didn’t want to be forced to the hospital.
I didn’t want to be force-fed intravenously.
I didn’t want any kind of violation against
my body or him.
I wanted to do whatever I could to protect
him.
And, you know, because of the past, that wasn’t
always—that wasn’t always a city priority.
That wasn’t always, you know, something
that you could depend on, at that point, to
not happen to a MOVE person, a MOVE baby,
a MOVE child.
And so I was determined not to let them know
that, until I was ready for them to know,
so that it could be—he could be safe.
That was the main reason.
How many women were in your cell?
I mean, Mike’s about to turn 40 on September
15th, so this happened almost 40 years ago.
How did you do this by yourself?
You were with, what, another woman in your
jail cell?
Yeah.
Well, Janine was in the room with me, but
I did it by myself, and I did it just with—armed
with the principle of motherhood and just
the teachings of John Africa that had been
given to all MOVE women at that point, because
I wasn’t the first MOVE woman to have a
baby at home.
Sue Africa was the first one, actually, to
have a baby naturally, in the era, that era,
when people were saying that women could not
have babies naturally.
And so, she was the first one.
I believe I was the third.
And so, I had had a baby before, two years
before that.
But anyway—
What did you do with the placenta?
You want to know that on TV?
Well, I’ll put it this way.
We did dispose of it.
You know, we did dispose of it, you know,
but we just flushed it.
Yeah, so—
And what about when baby Mike, who’s sitting
next to you, a grown man now, when this infant
cried?
How did—I mean, you were with him for three
days before the authorities understood what
had happened?
Oh, well, we just—I mean, it was just common
sense to us.
People just started making noise and singing.
Merle stood right in front of my doorstep,
and she just started singing a song or just,
you know, diverting the audio, diverting the
ear, and, you know, sang, talked, just talked
loud whenever he was—whenever we heard the
officers getting close to that area, because
we were locked behind another door, you see?
And there’s 63 cells, and then we were locked
behind a door in isolation, so it was eight
cells there.
So, while Janine was in the cell with me,
you know, she just lay there and watched me,
because she had also had two babies by then—no,
three.
And, you know, she just—I mean, she didn’t—I
did everything myself, because that’s the
way John Africa told us, that we were not—we’re
not cripple.
You know, he’d always explain to us, in
the old days, that having a baby was natural,
it was not sick.
Hospitals were sick, for sick people.
And because John Africa aided us in the principle
of motherhood by showing us that we could
do it, through the example of eating right,
exercising, being healthy, being strong, and
so these were the principles that we adopted.
And as young people, you know, young people
are indoctrinated easily and easily influenced,
so, you know, we were more malleable.
Like I was what?
In my early twenties.
And so, there was no fear.
There was no fear there, because I had not
actually been, you know, real, real, real
and systematically indoctrinated yet, at that
point.
And so, it was easy for John Africa to create
that example through we MOVE women at the
time.
And so, by the time I was arrested in 1978,
I felt pretty confident that I could do it,
you know.
And I was strong enough, and there was nothing
wrong with me.
I was healthy.
And that was the result.
I wanted to ask both of you about the second
major MOVE confrontation, in 1985.
That would have been seven years later.
So, Mike, you would have been 7, and your
mother would have been obviously still in
prison.
That was the the confrontation that the entire
world really was shocked at.
And I want to turn to Ramona Africa, the sole
adult survivor of the 1985 attack on the MOVE
house, in which she was describing what happened
after the bomb was dropped on her house.
In terms of the bombing, after being attacked
the way we were, first with four deluge hoses
by the fire department and then tons of tear
gas, and then being shot at—the police admit
to shooting over 10,000 rounds of bullets
at us in the first 90 minutes—there was
a lull.
You know, it was quiet for a little bit.
And then, without any warning at all, two
members of the Philadelphia Police Department’s
bomb squad got in a Pennsylvania state police
helicopter and flew over our home and dropped
a satchel containing C-4, a powerful military
explosive that no municipal police department
has.
They had to get it from the federal government,
from the FBI.
And without any announcement or warning or
anything, they dropped that bomb on the roof
of our home.
Now, at that point, we didn’t know exactly
what they had done.
We heard the loud explosion.
The house kind of shook.
But it never entered my mind that they dropped
a bomb on us.
But the bomb did in fact ignite a fire.
And not long after that, it got very, very
hot in the house, and the smoke was getting
thicker.
At first we thought it was tear gas.
But as it got thicker, it became clear that
this wasn’t tear gas, that this was something
else.
And then we could hear the trees outside of
our house crackling and realized that our
home was on fire.
And we immediately tried to get our children,
our animals, our dogs and cats, and ourselves
out of that blazing inferno.
That was Ramona Africa, speaking on Democracy
Now!, describing the 1985 police attack on
the MOVE compound.
I remember, by then, I was already a reporter
in Philadelphia.
I covered that event, and I was right there
with my co-worker Linn Washington of the Philadelphia
Daily News, as we watched the bomb being dropped
on the house.
But then the amazing thing is that for over
an hour, as the house burned, the police department
and the fire department, with all the fire
trucks surrounding it, they didn’t turn
on any water to douse the flames.
They actually let the fire spread, and it
ended up destroying an entire city block.
I’m wondering, Debbie, your reaction, when
you were in prison and you saw what was happening
to your comrades in MOVE at the time, and
also, Mike, your reaction, as a young boy,
hearing about what had happened.
I was—we were horrified.
At the time, we were not only in prison, but
we were in a special part of the prison called
the RHU, which is restricted housing area,
also known as the hole.
And so, we couldn’t see it, you know, live,
but we were told about it.
We were told about it by some officer that
just came up and said, “You know, your baby’s
dead.”
We were horrified.
We didn’t not believe it.
We were just—you know, it was just such
a—not only a shock, but it was just so—it
was heartbreaking.
And it was just an anger, you know?
It was angry, because, you know, for us to
be told like that.
Although I didn’t suffer a child being lost
in the house that way, you know, Sue—Sue
was there.
Janet was there, Janine, Consuela.
You know, and all of them had children and
babies in the house.
And so, that was just—you know, it was just
unbelievable.
And, Mike, you were what?
Seven years old now.
It was 1985.
You were born in ’78.
Do you remember that day?
I do.
I do.
I was—at the time, I was living with my
grandmother a few miles away from the house.
And I remember looking up.
I mean, the house, 6221 Osage Avenue, was
a few miles from the house that we lived in,
on 39th and Reno.
And I remember looking up in the sky and seeing
black smoke.
And I didn’t know what it was.
I just remember seeing black smoke, and I
remember seeing a lot of it.
And I remember seeing that it seemed like
it was never going to end.
And I went in the house, and I saw my aunt
and my grandmother.
They were all watching the news.
And when they—as they were watching the
news, I saw my aunt on the news, and she was
talking about it, and she was saying, “You
burned down our house!” and she was going
crazy.
And I said, “That looks like—that looks
like Louise.”
And my other aunt, she looked at me, and she
said, “It is.”
And I saw the house.
I saw our house, that was—and I just started
thinking about the kids and Tomaso and all
the other kids that I was growing up with.
And, you know, it was just—it was just such
a tragic day, and it was so confusing.
I mean, I didn’t understand why this would
happen.
I remember being very afraid of police, because
of them always attacking us and taking us
and putting us in foster homes and always
trying to like comb our hair and ripping our
hair out of our scalp.
And I just remember those bad days.
And May 13th, when that happened, it was just—even
now, just thinking about it, I just—it just—I
was in disbelief.
And I think I still haven’t even really
fully come to grips with what actually happened.
But I do remember that time.
Even now, when I look up, and if I’m doing
something, you know, at the age that I am
now, if I’m driving or running or somewhere
and I see black smoke in the air, although
the confrontational atmosphere of MOVE in
the city of Philadelphia is not the same as
it was in 1985, I still find myself calling
all the MOVE houses to make sure that it’s
not our house that’s on fire.
Has the election of Larry Krasner to be DA
of Philadelphia made a difference for either
of you?
I mean, he was a person who—oh, I just want
to take this moment, as I know this is a horrifying
moment for you, as you both wipe tears away,
thinking about 1985, especially Debbie behind
bars learning about it and Mike a little boy.
But, Mike, Larry Krasner becoming DA, who
for so long represented, oh, everyone from
Black Lives Matter to activists in Philadelphia
challenging the police, now the DA of Philadelphia,
does that encourage you, Debbie?
It actually does, because we did get his recommendation
for parole—I mean, his office, his office’s
recommendation for parole.
And that’s something that we had not gotten
from the previous DA’s office, for so many
years.
And, you know, anything, anything that’s
going to encourage—that’s going to encourage
justice, that’s going to encourage, you
know, a more—a peaceful way about, so to
speak, ending things, you know, is always
encouraging for me.
And so, you know—
I think the point should be made, too, that
MOVE is not against what’s right.
I mean, if—John Africa said, “If the city
can tell us something that’s right, we’ll
accept it.”
He said, “If anybody can tell us something
that’s right, we’ll accept it.
But if they’re going to tell us something
wrong, we ain’t accepting it.
And we ain’t going to be beat into doing
what’s wrong.”
So, the fact that Larry Krasner is in office
and he’s doing things that are positive
and in the way of fairness and justice and
equality, we’re all for it and happy to
have him.
Mike, can you tell us about your father?
You visited your mother and father in jail
for 40 years, going back and forth between
penitentiaries.
Right.
He’s going to be up for parole.
When will—is his hearing?
Same charges as Debbie and the MOVE 9.
We showed this image, a photograph of all
these awards Mike Sr. has won behind bars.
Yeah, yeah, my father is awesome.
That’s the best way that I could describe
it.
My father was my first hero.
My father is Mike Africa.
Oh, man, to be his son is one of the biggest
honors that I’ve ever had to experience.
And just like thinking about him and the kind
of person he is and the effort that he puts
into being right and the love that he has
for his family and, you know, all those—those
are—when I sent the message out there about
these awards, these are just 20 percent or
less maybe of the accomplishments that he
has.
And as far as like—I mean, he’s in everything,
whether it’s music or sports or just academic
achievements in sociology or whatever.
I mean, he has so much.
But more than that, his love for his family
and the understanding and the patience that
he has with dealing with issues, helping me
figure things out and helping to strategize
on his case or in the other people’s case.
I mean, for so many years I’ve talked to
him and said, “Dad, listen, we’ve got
to—I want to help you get this thing or
get that,” or “You need any money?”
whatever.
He’d say, “Yeah, no, send it to your mother.
Make sure your mother has it.
Is the girls up there all right?
I ain’t worried about me, Mike.
Just make sure that we get the women out,
man.
As long as your mom come home, as long as
Janet and Janine come home, I’m all right.
We got this.
If nobody”—he said, “I will do this
prison activity a thousand times, if it meant
that no other MOVE member or no other person
that don’t need to be behind them bars is
not behind those bars.”
I mean, his his energy toward just being right
is just so strong.
And, I mean, he is the reason that I am the
man that I am today, the husband, the father
and all these good things.
You know, just—and he got what he got from
the teaching of John Africa.
So, it just all comes full circle, you know.
And we just want our family to be whole for
the first time ever.
Yeah, that’s the truth, because, I mean,
he puts 100 percent into whatever he does.
And just like the awards that he’s won and—the
awards that he’s won and the achievement
that he’s accomplished while being in prison,
listen, he just—anything he does, he does
100 percent.
You know, I mean, he, as other MOVE people—I
mean, he didn’t do those things just to
win an award or just to win a trophy.
You know, he runs—Mike runs because he is
coordinated to run, because that is what’s
going to make him healthy.
He runs for health.
He runs for fitness.
He runs for his belief.
You know, he plays sports to help him release
energy.
So, these awards are really just being presented
so that people can see that the things that
was said on his previous parole interviews—lack
of motivation for success—are just—it’s
not true, because this is—he’s been doing
this for years.
And so, that’s why these are really—the
point is being made that, you know, MOVE people
are not successfully unmotivated.
We are very much successfully motivated.
And that’s why—that’s the point that’s
being made here.
And, Debbie, I’d like to ask you about another
incarcerated individual, Mumia Abu-Jamal,
who became a MOVE supporter and who was, as
you well know, been accused, also in prison
for the rest of his life, for supposedly having
killed a Philadelphia police officer, who
he has continuously denied having been involved
in the killing.
Could you talk about Mumia and his importance?
Well, I don’t really know—I don’t really
know his case except for what I’ve read.
I just know him as a—when he was a journalist,
you know, when he was a journalist.
And he would come to the prison to interview—you
know, to interview us or to talk, and we just
started getting really close, just because
of his interest in MOVE and in our case.
And so that’s actually how I met him.
He would just come to the prison and do interviews,
especially when we were on trial in the '70s,
late ’70s, early ’80s.
And, you know, but I—like I said, I don't
know the specifics of his case except for
what I’ve read.
But I don’t believe he’s guilty.
That’s all I really can say.
I don’t believe he’s guilty.
I wanted to play for you Mumia Abu-Jamal’s
most recent commentaries.
It’s titled “For Debbie Africa: Freedom.”
For Debbie Africa: Freedom.
Debbie Africa is one of a group called the
MOVE 9, survivors of the August 8, 1978, police
attack on MOVE in Philadelphia.
From that day to less than a week ago, Debbie
has been in a cell, serving out an outrageous
30- to 100-year prison sentence, one of seven
surviving MOVE members.
And like other MOVE members, she served 10
years over her minimum term before release
on parole.
Upon her release, in comments published by
The Guardian of London, she remarked on two
MOVE sisters who were not granted parole,
Janine and Janet Africa.
Debbie said, “Having to leave them was hard.
I was torn up inside, because of course I
want to come home, but I want them to come
with me.
I was in shock when it didn’t happen that
way.”
When Debbie was first arrested, she was 8
months pregnant, and in September 1978 she
gave birth to a healthy baby boy, Michael
Africa Jr.
Fed by her sisters, who smuggled food from
the mess hall, she spent three days with her
son before it was discovered she gave birth,
when the two were immediately separated.
Mike Jr. tells of the first night living with
his mother.
He knocked on her bedroom door, and when she
told him to come in, she was standing there
barefoot.
He looked down at her feet and realized it
was the first time in his life that he had
seen his mother’s feet.
His friend Benny told him that 2-year-old
babies and infants knew more about their mothers
than he, a man almost 40 years old.
But the story is, Debbie Africa, after 40
years behind bars, is free.
May freedom come swiftly for the rest of the
MOVE survivors of August 8, 1978.
From in Prison Nation, this is Mumia Abu-Jamal.
That’s Mumia Abu-Jamal, no longer reporting
from death row, in prison for the rest of
his life in Pennsylvania.
Now, Debbie Africa, one of the MOVE 9, is
the first of the MOVE 9 to be freed.
Two other MOVE 9 members died in prison.
The others, between the ages of 58 and 72,
remain eligible for parole.
Mike Africa, tell us who you were raised by.
You would go from prison to prison, visiting
your mother and father, but who raised you?
The best answer that I could come up with—I’ve
thought about the way to answer this for a
lot of years, and the best answer that I could
come up with is I was a community kid.
Right?
So I was raised—I mean, I have so many different
women, especially women, that I was with for
a year, two years, three years, here and there,
all the way up until I was an adult.
And one of the MOVE brothers, Mo Africa, was
the majority male figure in my life, and his
wife, and staying with them.
And so, I bounced around from house to house
until I was an adult.
In these final minutes we have together from
Mike’s home, where Debbie is staying, Debbie
and Mike, your final thoughts?
My final thoughts—my final thoughts are
just—just free the MOVE 9.
Free the rest of the people that are still
in prison.
Like I said, we were arrested together, tried
together, tried as a family.
So, release us as a family.
And Mike Jr.?
My final thought is the same.
My final thought is the same.
I want my father home, so that we can—you
know, so that he can live out the rest of
his life without having to be restricted to
having a certain amount of water or a certain
amount of food that they give you, or even
though the people there have diabetes, the
prison still serves them food that increases
diabetes.
I want my father home.
I want Eddie home for the same reason, so
that they can drink clean water and so that
they can eat healthy food and so that they
can live the rest of their lives free.
We thank you both so much for being with us,
Mike Africa and his mother Debbie Africa,
Debbie one of the MOVE 9.
On June 16th, after nearly four decades behind
bars, she became the first MOVE 9 member to
be released from prison.
It was on this day 40 years ago, on August
8th, 1978, the police siege happened of the
MOVE home, a police officer was killed, and
the MOVE 9 were arrested.
This is Democracy Now!
Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
