AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: We turn now to the political
crisis in Honduras.
On Monday night, national police in the capital
Tegucigalpa, including elite U.S.-trained
units, refused to impose a nighttime curfew
ordered by the government after days of protests
over allegations of fraud in the country’s
disputed election for president.
This is one of the COBRAS anti-riot squad
speaking in a video posted on Facebook.
COBRAS ANTI-RIOT SQUAD MEMBER: [translated]
This is a message for the violence to end.
There is no need for people to be in the streets
killing each other for something the politicians
can resolve among themselves.
It is not our job.
We are not acting according to any political
ideology.
This is our feeling.
Most of my colleagues are tired of being in
the streets.
Our families have been locked at home for
more than 15 days.
And the problem continues every day.
The crisis continues.
Our call is that all this ends, because we
are not willing to come to the streets and
confront the people or engage or repress the
people, crack down on the people.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: The move by police comes after
at least three people were killed as Honduran
security forces opened fire on demonstrators
Friday night in Tegucigalpa.
Protests erupted last week, when the government-controlled
electoral commission stopped tallying votes
from the November 26th election and after
the count showed opposition candidate Salvador
Nasralla ahead by more than 5 percentage points.
The commission now says President Hernández
has pulled ahead of Nasralla by 42.98 percent
to 41.39 percent, with 99.96 percent of the
votes tallied.
Electoral officials say they will not declare
a winner in the election yet, in order to
allow the filing of challenges and appeals.
This comes as international observers are
calling on the Honduras electoral commission,
which is controlled by President Hernández,
to carry out a recount.
The Organization of American States and the
European Union have supported Nasralla’s
demand for a recount.
This is Marisa Matias, head of the European
Union mission.
MARISA MATIAS: [translated] The count has
not yet finished.
The process is far from over.
That is to say, there’s still some time
for the presidential candidates and for the
parties to put forward their appeals, their
challenges.
This should be done by the Supreme Electoral
Tribunal.
AMY GOODMAN: This comes as the U.S. Embassy
said in a statement it’s, quote, “pleased
Honduran election authorities completed the
special scrutiny process in a way that maximizes
citizen participation and transparency,”
unquote.
Meanwhile, here in New York, people rallied
in Union Square Monday in solidarity with
those supporting Nasralla.
CARLA GARCIA: [translated] My name is Carla
Garcia.
I live in New York.
And I’m standing here today together with
my Honduran community.
It doesn’t matter if you are indigenous,
Garifuna or a person who lives in the city.
We are all facing a fraudulent election where
one person is trying to continue ruling with
his party, trying to continue governing indefinitely.
And the people are saying, “No more.
We want liberty.”
That’s why I’m here accompanying the Honduran
people.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we’re joined by three
guess.
In Honduras, we’re joined by two award-winning
journalists, Allan Nairn as well as Sarah
Kinosian.
Her latest piece for The Guardian is headlined
“Honduras: police refuse to obey government
as post-election chaos deepens.”
And on Capitol Hill, we’re joined by Congressmember
Jan Schakowsky, who is—represents the 9th
District of Illinois.
Her op-ed in The New York Times is headlined
“The Honduran Candidate.”
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Let’s go first to Allan Nairn, who is in
the streets of Tegucigalpa, as Sarah was last
night.
Explain what you’ve watched.
ALLAN NAIRN: Well, Honduras has been in the
midst of an uprising of the poor, joined by
many in the middle class.
It’s essentially a democratic electoral
uprising against the government and the oligarchy,
who are trying to impose Hernández, who is
a protégé of White House Chief of Staff
General Kelly, for another term.
And then something extraordinary happened
last night, where the poor were joined in
this revolt by a big chunk of the security
forces, the police at the COBRA headquarters.
COBRA is an elite unit that is charged with
working on things like counterterrorism, narcotics.
For hours upon end, police from all over,
from many different units, came streaming
into the headquarters to support their rebellion,
their uprising—a refusal to carry out any
more repression.
At one point, according to the police there
who I spoke to, it appeared that about one-fifth
of the entire national police force had gathered
inside the COBRA headquarters.
And reports from all over the country show
that this is happening everywhere, everywhere
else.
This was triggered, in important part, by
a decision by the U.S. State Department taken
on Tuesday, the 28th, to certify that Honduras
was honoring human rights and fighting corruption.
With that certification, that greenlighted
new U.S. aid to Honduras, essentially, in
effect, gave a green light to complete the
fraud, and also gave a green light for state
escalation of what has really become a class
war.
And on Thursday, the 30th, an election technician
working inside the Supreme Electoral Tribunal
sent a private chat message to a friend of
his.
And that message, which I saw, read, ”El
fraude ya se hizo.”
“The fraud has now been done.”
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, I’d like to bring
in Representative Jan Schakowsky.
You’ve been very vocal, especially in the
op-ed piece you had in The New York Times,
about the whole issue of whether President
Juan Orlando Hernández is even—should even
be legally running for re-election, and the
questions you’ve raised, as well, about
this vote.
Could you talk about that?
REP.
JAN SCHAKOWSKY: Well, this is really an illegal
election, according to the laws in Honduras.
In fact, it was the cause of the coup, supposedly,
in 2009, when President Zelaya just wanted
a referendum to see if people wanted to have—make
a change and allow for the re-election of
the president.
What Hernández did was to stack the Supreme
Court and change the rules so that he could
run again.
And now what we’re seeing is that in order
to win the popular election, then it looks
like extensive fraud has occurred.
And it’s just remarkable to me that the
United States of America has continued—two
days after this election, which was under
a cloud to begin with, would recertify that
taxpayer dollars should go to the military,
to the training of the armed forces and the
police in Honduras, that they’re a great
ally of the United States, that they have
not violated human rights and democracy in
Honduras.
So, this is a situation where many of us in
the Congress are saying we want to see a full
recount, and we want to see the passage of
our Berta Cáceres Human Rights in Honduras
Act, that says, “No, no money is going to
go, unless we make sure that human rights
are acknowledged and not abused in Honduras.”
AMY GOODMAN: Sarah Kinosian, you, too, have
been on the streets of Tegucigalpa.
What are the people demanding on the streets
right now?
And the significance of what Allan just described?
You, too, writing about the police going back
to the barracks, saying they will not repress
the people.
Are they calling for a new election?
SARAH KINOSIAN: Yeah.
So, I’ve gotten various answers to that.
Some people are calling for a new election.
But a lot of other people I talk to said,
you know, “What’s the point of having
a new election?
They’ll just commit fraud again, because
the electoral body, the TSE, is controlled
by the ruling party, by Hernández’s party.”
I’ve got a larger amount of people that
are calling for the recount of the 5,000 votes
that apparently were counted after a computer
glitch and which essentially changed the trend
of Nasralla winning.
That’s probably the biggest account of fraud
that people are upset about.
You know, the army—excuse me, the police
last night called for a recount of the votes
from all polling stations, so 18,000.
So, you know, we’ll have to see what happens.
But right now it seems that a recount of the
5,000 votes is the main issue on the table.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And the votes that you’re
talking—
SARAH KINOSIAN: And then—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: The votes that you’re talking
about, how did people cast their ballots?
Were they paper ballots?
Were they on scan machines?
How exactly were the votes cast?
SARAH KINOSIAN: Yeah, so, the way that it—the
way that the voting system works is, so people—I
think that people cast their ballots on paper.
But essentially what happens is, is there’s
a table at each polling station, and there’s
a sheet that tallies all of the votes from
that station.
And there’s different representatives from
the parties at each of the tables.
And the way that it works is, each table sends
in the voting sheet to the electoral body,
but then each of the representatives at the
table also send their sheet to their party
home base in Tegucigalpa.
So what you’re getting now is—so you essentially
have an electoral body count, and you also
have each party that has its own count of
these voting sheets that have tabulated all
votes at a station.
So that is why you’re getting discrepancies
from what was sent to the electoral body versus
what each party says, because they can each
run their own counts from the sheets that
they received from their representatives at
each of the polling stations.
AMY GOODMAN: Allan Nairn, as we have Congressmember
Jan Schakowsky on, how important, in the streets,
is the U.S. Congress to the people of Honduras
right now, as this election rolls out and
the protests against electoral corruption
and a rigged election play out?
How much money has gone to Honduras, and what
are people calling for around that?
ALLAN NAIRN: Well, historically, Honduras
has been essentially an extension of the U.S.
Pentagon and State Department.
The current regime really dates back to the
’80s, when the U.S. was mounting the Contra
attack against Nicaragua, established massive
military bases in Honduras as the point of
attack to go after what U.S. General Galvin
described as “soft targets” in Nicaragua—namely,
civilians.
John Negroponte, who was the U.S. ambassador
to Honduras at the time, presided over the
standup of Battalion 3-16, which was essentially
an army death squad, which did mass assassinations
of Honduran dissidents and clergy, of activists,
etc.
After the 2009 coup, which at the time got
de facto support from Hillary Clinton and
President Obama, the death squads made a reappearance.
And again, in the years since the ’09 coup,
activists in the countryside have been in
danger of assassination.
The case of Berta Cáceres, the environmental
activist, is the most famous, but there have
been dozens and dozens of these.
I’ve talked, by now, to, oh, I’d say more
than 70 soldiers and police in the past five
days.
And the majority of them had been trained
in the U.S.
And also, interestingly, significantly, I
only found one, of all those I talked to,
who is a real supporter of Hernández.
The army is not allowed to vote.
But if you ask them, “Well, how did your
family back home vote?” the overwhelming
majority say their families voted for Nasralla.
And these are from troops and members of the
police.
And if that’s any indication, it gives a
great credibility to the claim by the Nasralla
opposition that they indeed would win in an
accurate count.
The electoral commission, the other day, which
is controlled by the government, came out
and made a statement that essentially echoed
the logic of the U.S. Supreme Court in the
19—in the 2000 Bush v. Gore decision, where
they said—essentially said it would take
too long to count the votes accurately.
The people aren’t—people aren’t standing
for that.
And now the police are refusing, as well.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Allan, if we can, I’d
like to—
ALLAN NAIRN: Last night, I was riding through
the streets—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Allan, if we can, I’d like
to bring in—
ALLAN NAIRN: Yes.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —Congresswoman Schakowsky
once more.
Could you—you mentioned the previous coup
against Mel Zelaya, the continuing problems
in Honduras, which seems to stand out among
other Latin American countries in not being
able to have free and fair elections.
Could you talk about what kind of appetite
there is among the Republicans in Congress
to join with some of the Democrats to take
a closer look at what’s happening in Honduras?
REP.
JAN SCHAKOWSKY: Well, the Progressive Caucus
has really taken the lead on this and has
been very outspoken.
And we are concerned about the fact that this
administration has been such a friend of Honduras
and has been so welcoming to Honduras and
the Hernández government.
We do need some Republican support and Republican
interest.
You know, there’s kind of short bandwidth
right here in the Congress right now, not
so much focusing on these critical issues
of democracy in our Central American neighbors.
So we’re going to be working on that.
But in the meantime, we’re really trying
to raise this issue up so people understand
that people are being—were being murdered
in Honduras, not just over the election, but
be a journalist, be a human rights defender,
be a labor union activist, and your life is
in danger in Honduras under this administration.
And it is true that even in 2009, for about
five minutes, the United States said that
a coup had taken place, an illegal coup.
And it didn’t take long then for that to
be turned around and Honduras once again to
be an ally of the United States, narcotrafficking,
etc.
And yet we have this very, very corrupt, anti-democratic
president right now, and a chance perhaps,
now with the police taking a different stance,
to help restore true democracy in Honduras.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressmember Schakowsky, Reuters
is reporting the State Department has certified
the Honduran government has been fighting
corruption and supporting human rights, clearing
the way for Honduras to receive millions of
dollars in U.S. aid.
They saw a document dated November 28th that
showed Secretary of State Tillerson certified
Honduras for the assistance two days after
the controversial presidential election, that’s
been claimed by an ally of—of course, Juan
Orlando Hernández—of Washington.
The significance of this?
Will you be allowing this to move forward?
And this issue of the continued military support
for Honduras?
REP.
JAN SCHAKOWSKY: Well, we are clearly against.
When I say “we,” those of us who are co-sponsoring
the legislation for human rights in Honduras.
Our demands are that we do not continue funding
until there is some evidence that there’s
actually an end to the human rights violations.
We have put money into the military in Honduras,
into the police, as well, into their training.
The elite forces have been trained in the
United States of America.
How dare the secretary endorse Honduras and
continued funding two days after an election
that he knew at the time—he had to have
known—was very controversial?
So we’re in great protest of what is happening.
And so, you know, we’ve been involved in
this for a long time, in the murder of the
highest-profile human rights and indigenous
people—person, activist Berta Cáceres.
And we’re going to continue this fight and
say, “No, this is not some kind of great
guy,” as John Kelly calls him.
This is someone, as president of Honduras,
who is trying to actually collapse democracy
there and take over that country in a very
autocratic way.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I’m wondering, Sarah
Kinosian, can you talk about the opposition?
Because this was an alliance of political
parties to the current president that were
backing Nasralla.
Could you talk about that coalition?
SARAH KINOSIAN: Yeah.
In its simplest form, Salvador Nasralla had
a party, the Anti-Corruption Party.
He has paired with Mel Zelaya of the Liberal
Party—or, LIBRE party, excuse me.
And they formed together, and Salvador really
needed the votes of Mel Zelaya.
What I am hearing is that alliance, while
it did give Salvador Nasralla the support
that he needed to get this far with his support,
it’s also presented problems because a lot
of people are not distinguishing between Nasralla
and Mel Zelaya.
So what you’ll hear from a lot of Hernández
supporters is two things: One, we’re going
to have this—you know, either way, if it’s
Zelaya or Juan Orlando, they’re going to
try to keep staying in power because of 2009,
or you hear this repeated line that the Hernández
government is really trying to push out, which
is Mel Zelaya is allied with Venezuela.
And so you hear that concern a lot.
If Nasralla wins, then Mel Zelaya will really
be the one in power, and we’re going to
end up like Venezuela.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Allan Nairn, what do you
expect to see on the streets today as you’re
out there speaking to people?
ALLAN NAIRN: Well, it’s possible that the
revolt of the security forces will spread.
On Sunday night—Sunday afternoon and Sunday
night, I spoke to many soldiers, and a number
of them were suggesting that they might defy
orders.
And I found it hard to believe at the time.
In his street rally on Sunday, Nasralla made
a direct call to the security forces to refuse
to continue repression, to lay down their
arms.
It was reminiscent of—
AMY GOODMAN: We have 15 seconds.
ALLAN NAIRN: —what Archbishop Romero did
in Salvador before he was assassinated.
We’ll see how the army reacts now.
And I think more people will take to the streets.
This is really in the hands of the U.S.
If the U.S. tells the Salvadoran army to cut
it out, if they tell Hernández to allow an
honest count, they will comply, because they
are clients of Washington.
And this goes back, directly back, to the
White House, to General Kelly, as Representative
Schakowsky said.
It’s in Kelly’s hands.
He can bring this to a peaceful, democratic
conclusion, if he chooses.
AMY GOODMAN: We have to leave it there.
ALLAN NAIRN: If not, there will be more bloodshed.
AMY GOODMAN: Journalist Allan Nairn and Sarah
Kinosian in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and Congressmember
Jan Schakowsky.
