AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report,
I’m Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show looking
at the Justice Department’s recent indictment
of 13 Russians and three companies in connection
with efforts to influence the 2016 presidential
election.
The indicted are accused of orchestrating
an online propaganda effort to undermine the
U.S. election system.
The indictment claims the Russians spread
negative information online about Hillary
Clinton and supportive information about Donald
Trump, as well as Bernie Sanders.
After the indictments on Friday, some analysts
compared the Russian interference to Japan’s
1941 attack on the U.S. naval base at Pearl
Harbor.
But others have warned not to overstate what
Russia accomplished.
On Thursday, I sat down with the prize-winning
Russian-American journalist Masha Gessen,
a longtime critic of Russian President Vladimir
Putin.
Her recent book, The Future Is History: How
Totalitarianism Reclaimed Russia, it won the
National Book Award in 2017.
Gessen recently wrote a piece for The New
Yorker magazine headlined “The Fundamental
Uncertainty of Mueller’s Russia Indictments.”
I began there, asking her about these indictments.
MASHA GESSEN: So, you know, for somebody who
actually has read the indictment in its entirety,
and, actually, the Russian reporting that
is almost entirely repeated in the indictment,
it’s really hard to square that with the
way that it’s been portrayed as, you know,
a sophisticated, bold effort.
I think H.R. McMaster is correct in saying,
yes, there’s “incontrovertible” evidence
of Russian meddling, but to call it bold,
to call it sophisticated and to imply that
we now know that it actually had an influence
on the outcome of the election is absurd.
It was not bold.
It was not sophisticated.
And it—we don’t know, and probably never
will know, whether it had any impact.
AMY GOODMAN: Let’s go to the deputy attorney
general, which surprised many, that he was
the person who spoke on Friday, Rod Rosenstein,
the man very much under attack by President
Trump, who said there’s no evidence—this
is Rosenstein—said there’s no evidence
that the alleged interference influenced the
outcome of the election.
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROD ROSENSTEIN: The
indictment charges 13 Russian nationals and
three Russian companies for committing federal
crimes while seeking to interfere in the United
States’ political system, including the
2016 presidential election.
The defendants allegedly conducted what they
called 'information warfare' against the United
States, with the stated goal of spreading
distrust towards the candidates and the political
system in general.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Masha Gessen, talk about
what you found in reading the indictment,
looking at how people are responding in Russia
and here.
MASHA GESSEN: So, I am really fascinated with
what it tells us about our imagination about
the Russian imagination.
So, Russia imagines America and the American
political system as like this unassailable
monolith that they are throwing stuff at just
to try to make a dent, whereas the United
States is starting increasingly to imagine
Russia as all-powerful, as incredibly sophisticated,
as capable of, you know, sending out some
really absurd tweets, in sub-literate English,
and somehow changing the outcome of the election.
And that projects such a belief in the fragility
of the system and the basic instability of
it and in the gullibility of voters who read
something that’s not even comprehensible
English and suddenly change their vote.
I mean, the working theory of the investigation—right?—is
that Russians influenced the election by influencing
American public opinion.
And so, we’re asked to believe that a significant
impact on American public opinion could be
produced by, you know, the Bernie the Superman
coloring book tweet.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain.
MASHA GESSEN: Well, among the Facebook ads—you
know, a lot of them were truly absurd.
They’re like caricatures of American political
propaganda.
For example, there was a coloring book of
a sort of buff Bernie, with tweets going out
saying that it was suitable for all ages,
and that was supposed to sort of advance the
Sanders candidacy to detract from Hillary
Clinton’s candidacy.
There was the Satan arm-wrestling Jesus ad,
where Satan is supposed to be Hillary and
Jesus is supposed to be Trump, and you have
to vote the right way.
And we’re asked to believe that that had
a measurable impact on a billion-dollar campaign?
AMY GOODMAN: Well, you write about all the
different reactions, from the vice president
of Facebook, Rob Goldman, what he said, what
Trump said.
And take it from there.
MASHA GESSEN: Well, so, Rob Goldman wrote
that he has seen all the Russian ads and tweets,
which—ads and posts, which, of course, we
haven’t, right?
We know that Facebook turned them over to
the congressional investigators, but we’ve
only seen a small selection of them.
And I suspect that what we’ve seen are the
ones that make any sense at all, right?
Because there’s also just this giant amount
of internet static that’s produced.
And so, Rob Goldman posted—tweeted, “I’ve
seen all the Russian ads.
Their goal was not to elect Trump,” I think—am
I quoting this correctly?
AMY GOODMAN: Let me go to what the Facebook
vice president, Rob Goldman, said, as he took
to Twitter, writing, “Very excited to see
the Mueller indictment today.
We shared Russian ads with Congress, Mueller
and the American people to help the public
understand how the Russians abused our system.
Still, there are key facts about the Russian
actions that are still not well understood.”
And then, in a subsequent tweet, Goldman wrote,
“Most of the coverage of Russian meddling
involves their attempt to effect the outcome
of the 2016 US election.
I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can
say very definitively that swaying the election
was 'NOT' the main goal.”
President Trump quoted the latter statement
in a tweet the next day.
MASHA GESSEN: Right.
So, swaying the election was not the main
goal.
And I think—
AMY GOODMAN: Just creating—
MASHA GESSEN: I mean, this is conjecture on
my part, but also based on what I know about
what the Russian trolls themselves are saying,
because they have been interviewed at this
point by Russian journalists.
And, you know, their goal was to create a
mess, to screw with us, right?
And I think that what Rob Goldman is probably
looking at is a huge mess of incomprehensible
sort of messaging.
Incomprehensible messaging is a very important
part of Russian propaganda.
I mean, it’s not—you know, this is not
an imaginary phenomenon, right?
Creating a cacophony—
AMY GOODMAN: It’s not unimaginable here,
either.
MASHA GESSEN: But creating a cacophony, creating
confusion, creating the sense that nothing
means anything anymore is definitely important,
right?
But that is different from saying that their
goal was to sway the outcome of the election
and that we can say with any amount of certainty
that that worked and that’s how we got Trump.
AMY GOODMAN: And it’s also served another
purpose, for example, when it comes to these
large megacorporations, like Facebook and
Twitter.
They’ve been hauled before Congress, before
the British Parliament, and they’re saying,
“How could you have allowed this to appear?”
And in the end, they’re being pressured,
basically, these corporations, to censor what
is out there.
MASHA GESSEN: Yeah, I mean, I don’t think
that the agenda of holding Facebook accountable
publicly is such a bad agenda.
You know, I think that a conversation about
what Facebook is—is it a public resource,
even though it’s a privately owned corporation?
Is it a media company?
It is certainly not just a platform, as Facebook
has claimed repeatedly.
I think that is a really important question.
I just think it’s been asked in the wrong
way, right?
It’s been asked—you know, when we saw
Senator Al Franken badgering the Facebook
lawyer and screaming, you know, “They were
Russians!
You know, how could you not see that these
ads were bought for rubles?”
Well, why are we starting at a place where
we assume that selling advertising for rubles,
that there’s something necessarily sinister
and horrible about it?
Right?
And that is—I don’t think that moves forward
a conversation about how something that has
de facto become a public resource, but is
privately owned, functions in society.
AMY GOODMAN: Russian-American journalist Masha
Gessen wrote a piece in The New Yorker magazine,
“The Fundamental Uncertainty of Mueller’s
Russia Indictments.”
We will come back to this discussion in a
minute.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Sabre Dance” by Yuri Ahronovitch
and the London Symphony Orchestra.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we continue our conversation
with Russian-American journalist Masha Gessen
about the recent indictment of 13 Russians
and three Russian companies for interfering
in the 2016 U.S. election.
One of the Russians indicted last week by
the Justice Department, Russian billionaire
Yevgeny Prigozhin, who owns the Internet Research
Agency, the Russian troll farm that was involved
in the Russian election meddling, his nickname
is reportedly “Putin’s cook.”
According to The Washington Post, he’s also
believed to control the Russian mercenaries
who attacked U.S. troops and their allies
in Syria this month.
I asked Masha Gessen to talk more about him.
MASHA GESSEN: Right.
So, the Russian state and the Russian government
is a mafia state.
And so, the easiest way to think about it
is it’s a clan—right?—with a patriarch
in the middle.
Who nominally owns what doesn’t make a whole
lot of difference, right?
Because—so, they created this troll farm.
Someone had to—it had to be a private company.
Someone had to nominally own it.
There’s very little doubt that it’s getting
funding from the Kremlin, right?
So, it’s inside the clan, right?
Whether Prigozhin, as a person, is actually
particularly important in this game, you know,
none of us can say, right?
But we do know a fair amount about how that
company functioned, right?
Again, there’s been like great Russian reporting
on what they were doing.
And a lot of that reporting is regurgitated
in the indictment, with, apparently, some
inaccuracies introduced in translation.
AMY GOODMAN: Wait, explain that, because it’s
an important point.
You’re basically saying they’re taking
these Russian reports.
MASHA GESSEN: I didn’t find anything in
the indictment that wasn’t in the Russian
report.
The Russian investigative report that was
published by RBC in October was terrific.
Actually, they published two reports, one
right after another.
They really sort of got into this company.
The interviewed people who told them, you
know, what they were told to do.
They were very explicitly told to mess with
the election, right?
They were not told to support one candidate
over another.
They were told to create a lot of static.
They were told to mirror a lot of things.
They talked—these so-called trolls talked
about organizing offline demonstrations, right?
So those stories about how they would find
real U.S. persons, actual U.S. persons, and
sometimes offer them money, sometimes offer
them other incentives, to organize a demonstration
here or there, right?
But again, you know, we’re looking at a
cacophony, cacophonous messaging.
And, of course, my favorite part is that after
the election, they went on and immediately
organize an anti-Trump rally and a pro-Trump
rally.
And that sort of sums up the way they worked.
AMY GOODMAN: And the people themselves—I
mean, you had these almost laughable stories
of Russians getting visas.
Some were denied, and some weren’t.
And they came to the United States.
And, of course, this was during Obama’s
time.
MASHA GESSEN: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: And they traveled the country.
And talk about the purple state strategy and
learning the lingo.
MASHA GESSEN: Right.
So, yeah, so they traveled about, collecting
intelligence, and the indictment quotes that
they got this incredibly important information,
which is focused on the purple states, like
Colorado, Nevada and—I can’t remember
what the third one on the list was.
But it was just something that you would get
from any—the simplest analysis of American
elections.
You don’t actually have to travel to the
United States and talk to actual U.S. persons
to get this kind of insight.
I mean, to be fair, most intelligence is like
that.
Most intelligence is obvious to somebody who
knows anything about the topic, right?
It’s a lot of—especially Russian intelligence.
It’s a lot of stuff that’s based on open
sources, lots of obvious stuff.
It’s a lot of static and a lot of people
just trying to report that they learned something
when they actually learned nothing.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, if this was American,
it would be marked “highly classified.”
MASHA GESSEN: Right, exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: And then, perhaps, Jared Kushner
wouldn’t be able to read it, if he loses
his security clearance.
But let me ask you about what Charles Blow
said in The New York Times.
In a “piece”:”Attacking the Woke Black
Vote,” headlined “Attacking the 'Woke'
Black Vote,” Charles Blow writes, “One
thing that’s clear to me following the special
counsel’s indictment of 13 Russians and
three companies for interfering with our election
is that the black vote was specifically under
attack, from sources foreign and domestic.
And this attack appeared to be particularly
focused on young black activist-minded voters
passionate about social justice: The 'Woke'
Vote.
The tragic irony is that these young people,
many of whom already felt like the American
political system was failing them, were encouraged
to lay down one of the most powerful political
tools they have, thereby ensuring an amplification
of their own oppressions.”
And he’s saying they were encouraged basically
not to vote.
I mean, you have, for example, Blacktivist,
which turns out to be, you know, a Russian
troll, etc.
MASHA GESSEN: You know, I think this is tragic,
because I think that instead of engaging with
what actually happened in the 2016 election,
among American citizens and American activists
who were making real, tough decisions about
whether to vote and how to vote, we’re now
focusing on the Russians, right?
I mean, I remember listening to an interview
with Michelle Alexander, the wonderful African-American
activist, a few weeks before the election,
and how painful it seemed for her to talk
about the election and how she said that she
was going to have a really difficult time
voting for Hillary Clinton, and she wasn’t
going to say unequivocally that she was going
to vote for Hillary.
And I was listening to that interview, and
I thought, “Oh, my god, she is going to
lose.
She is so clearly going to lose, right?”
And she was not going to lose because Russians
were telling young African Americans to stay
home.
She was going to lose, in part, because there
were very good reasons for young African Americans
and old African Americans to stay home, because
there was a very visceral memory of her position
on prison reform and welfare reform and the
incredibly racist rhetoric around her in the
1990s.
And she hadn’t addressed it in any kind
of convincing way.
And to trivialize that tragic rift by saying
that the Russians did it is just a huge disservice
to our political conversation.
AMY GOODMAN: Also, in terms of the noise that’s
out there, I mean, in social media, the amount
of people in the United States—and, of course,
this is outside, this is foreign influence,
but I’m sure there were many others who
were doing the same thing—I mean, how significant
was this?
MASHA GESSEN: So, I mean, the answer is we
don’t know.
We don’t know how significant it was.
From the information that is publicly available
right now, if you look at what they were doing,
if you look at how effective what they were
doing was—and what I mean is, you know,
how effective in sort of social network metrics
terms, right?—most of their posts and ads
got fewer than average views, because they
weren’t very good.
They had a couple of runaway successes, but,
basically, most of their money was wasted,
by social network standards, right?
We’re talking, according to the indictment,
about a budget of a little over a million
dollars a month, right?
So, let’s say they did this for a year.
They spent—let’s say, you know, they spent
$15 million—in a campaign in which one side
spent a billion dollars, right?
What do we have to imagine to say, with the
kind of certainty with which we’ve been
saying it, that Russians swayed the election?
I mean, granted, the election was won by 77,000
votes in three counties, and so anything,
you know, the weather, could have swayed the
election.
But to point the blame at Russia specifically,
I think, is misleading.
And again, it just detracts from the conversation
we should be having, which is about how Americans
elected Trump.
