AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report, as we turn now to
the 2018 Teacher of the Year.
When Mandy Manning received her award at the
White House on Wednesday, the press was barred
from her speech, and President Trump did not
mention who she teaches: immigrant and refugee
children.
MANDY MANNING: Over the next year, I want
students to know I am here for refugee and
immigrant students, for the kids in the Gay
Straight Alliance and for all the girls I’ve
coached over the years, to send them the message
that they are wanted, they are loved, they
are enough, and they matter.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s 2018 Teacher of the
Year Mandy Manning.
While she was at the White House, Manning
handed President Donald Trump a stack of letters
from her refugee and immigrant students.
Manning also wore six politically themed buttons
as she accepted her award from President Trump,
while billionaire Education Secretary Betsy
DeVos looked on.
Manning’s buttons featured artwork from
the 2017 Women’s March, a rainbow flag and
the slogan “Trans Equality Now!”
This is President Trump presenting her her
award.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: To Mandy and all of
the amazing educators here today, your tireless
dedication doesn’t just inspire your students,
it inspires all of us.
And I can tell you, it very much inspires
me.
We honor you and every citizen called to the
noble vocation of teaching.
Now it is my privilege to present Mandy with
the National Teacher of the Year award.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we’re joined by Mandy
Manning, who has returned from Washington,
D.C., to Washington state, to her home in
Spokane.
There, she teaches English and math to refugee
and immigrant students at the Joel E. Ferris
High School.
She was named 2018 National Teacher of the
Year by the Council of Chief School State
Officers.
Welcome to Democracy Now!, Mandy, and congratulations.
MANDY MANNING: Thank you.
Thanks very much.
AMY GOODMAN: So, can you talk about your message
at the White House, what took place on Monday?
You were with the secretary of labor, the
secretary of education.
You were with the president of the United
States.
MANDY MANNING: Mm-hmm.
So, it actually was on Wednesday afternoon.
And the White House really did a good job
of honoring us.
We had a reception, and we had an opportunity
to be on a panel with Secretary DeVos and
Secretary of Labor Acosta.
The four finalists sat there, and we got to
speak about some very, very important issues
facing education, like school safety and the
opioid crisis.
And, of course, I spoke about my students,
my immigrant and refugee students at the Newcomer
Center here.
We had a reception, and then the presentation
of the award was next.
And I spoke to the audience and gave my remarks,
and then we had a short intermission, which
is where I had my opportunity to hand the
letters to the president from my students.
And I also asked him if he would be willing
to come to Spokane and meet my students, my
immigrant and refugee students, to see how
amazing, dedicated, focused and what productive
members of our community they are as future
citizens of our United States.
AMY GOODMAN: The press was barred from recording
your speech?
MANDY MANNING: I didn’t know that until
after, after the ceremony, when I spoke with
a reporter afterwards.
That’s when I found out that my remarks
were not witnessed by the press.
AMY GOODMAN: That they were prevented from
being in the room.
Well, I didn’t think it would be particularly
subversive to play a clip of your speech at
the White House, but apparently it is, so
we’re going to play it from a recording
made by a friend of yours on their cellphone.
This is a clip.
MANDY MANNING: I am honored and humbled to
be the vehicle through which my students may
tell their stories.
I am here for David, a future IT specialist
who hopes to one day be able to attend university.
I am here for Tamara, who is currently studying
pre-med at Eastern Washington University.
I am here for Safa and Tara, both future elementary
school teachers.
I am here for Safa—I mean, for Solomon and
Gafishi, who believe that the United States
is the place where they have found the center
of their lives, where they can have dreams
and hopes to be someone.
You see, my students are immigrants and refugees
brand new to our nation.
I teach in the Newcomer Center at Ferris High
School in Spokane, Washington.
And all of the students who come through my
classroom have three things in common: They
are just learning English.
They have escaped trauma to find new lives
in our nation, and they are focused and determined
to be productive citizens of our United States.
And most importantly, they succeed.
AMY GOODMAN: The speech no one saw but those
in the room, like, oh, the education secretary,
DeVos, the labor secretary, Acosta.
President Trump, I don’t believe was there
at that point.
But again, the press barred from being in
the room and recording that speech.
Mandy Manning, you were talking there about
your students.
Talk about the countries they come from, as
you teach at the—what’s known as the Newcomer
Center.
President Trump did not mention, in his awarding
you the Teacher of the Year award, that you
teach refugee and immigrant students.
MANDY MANNING: Yes.
So, I teach in the Newcomer Center, which
is a specialized English-language development
program for brand-new immigrant and refugee
students.
So these are the students who just came to
the country, like one to three months prior
to starting school here in the United States.
And they also know very little English.
So, my students come from all over the world.
They come from Iraq, Afghanistan, several
countries in Africa, such as Uganda, Sudan,
Eritrea, Rwanda, Tanzania—all over.
I have Syrian students.
I also have current students from Burma-Myanmar.
I’ve had students from Micronesia, Malaysia,
Chuuk island in Micronesia, the Marshall Islands,
students from El Salvador—all over.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Mandy, can you talk about
the pins you wore as President Trump recognized
you as the Teacher of the Year?
MANDY MANNING: Sure.
So, I teach—I not only teach immigrant and
refugee students, but I also have worked closely
with the Gay Straight Alliance.
I was a co-adviser before becoming the Washington
state Teacher of the Year.
And I also coach girls’ basketball.
And on my girls’ basketball team, I have
had a trans boy, who had to, you know, be
on the girls’ basketball team.
But these pins represent my students.
And I wanted them to know 100 percent that
as I stood there in this White House, that
I am there for them.
I am there to be the vehicle through which
they can tell their stories, and I want to
represent them.
And so, that’s what my pins represented.
And the one from the Women’s March is the
one that represents the DREAMers and the DACA
immigrants.
AMY GOODMAN: And you were also speaking—this
past Wednesday is in the midst of the teacher
walkouts and strikes around the country.
Can you comment on these?
MANDY MANNING: Well, at the heart of every
teacher is their students.
And in many states and in many areas, we are
underserving many of our students.
And sometimes it takes that collective voice,
where teachers come together, to ensure that
they have the supplies that they need and
the equipment and also the compensation to
be the very best that they can be for their
students.
And so, sometimes we don’t have a choice.
When we want what’s best for our students,
we have to come together with that collective
voice, because that’s when we can make change.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you endorse these strikes
and walkouts, oh, from West Virginia to Oklahoma
to Arizona?
MANDY MANNING: I believe that, yes, anything
that we can do to ensure that our students
have what they need, because that’s—you
know, that’s what teachers want.
We want what’s best for the students.
AMY GOODMAN: And, you know, the last time
we saw a televised event that involved teachers
and students at the White House was after
the Valentine’s Day massacre in Parkland,
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School,
February 14th, where both students and staff,
teachers, were gunned down.
There, they told President Trump directly—some
of them said—one, the husband of a teacher,
said, “No, we don’t want teachers to be
armed.”
President Trump and Vice President Pence went
to the NRA convention on Friday, right after
giving you that award on Wednesday.
There, people were not allowed to bring in
guns to the NRA meeting, the National Rifle
Association meeting.
Your thoughts on guns in the schools?
MANDY MANNING: Well, of course, I can only
speak for myself, but I will never and do
not ever want to carry a gun in the classroom.
The most important thing in my classroom is
the relationships that I build.
And I strongly feel that if we had guns in
our schools, and particularly if I carried
a gun, it would dramatically impact the feeling
in my classroom and my ability to connect
with my students.
And I just—I think that it’s an idea that
is a temporary Band-Aid to make people feel
like that might be—make us feel more safe.
But in reality, if we bring more guns into
the school, I personally would feel less safe.
Plus, you know, the relationships that we
build and the connections in the community
would be so deeply impacted.
So, I would never, ever carry a gun in my
classroom.
AMY GOODMAN: Did you get a chance to discuss
this with Secretary of Education DeVos or
Secretary of Labor Acosta—guns in the schools,
the strikes, the walkouts?
MANDY MANNING: We did have an opportunity
to speak about guns and school safety.
But we really focused on the fact that in
order to have safe schools, we need to have
connected schools, which means students need
to feel connected to their peers, they need
to feel connected to their teachers, and they
need to feel like their school represents
them and is a safe place for them.
And so that was the focus of our discussion,
that the key to school safety is ensuring
that teachers can do the things that they
need, and have the latitude in their classrooms
to meet the needs of the students within their
individual classrooms—
AMY GOODMAN: Mandy—
MANDY MANNING: —and that schools need to
be places—go ahead.
AMY GOODMAN: Go ahead.
“And schools need to be places…”
MANDY MANNING: That meet the needs of the
community within which they reside.
AMY GOODMAN: Could you end by sharing a letter
from one of your students?
You asked them to write letters to President
Trump?
MANDY MANNING: Yes.
And they wrote just beautiful letters.
So I did—I chose one from a student, and
I will leave his name off, but from a student
from Iraq.
So, he says, “Dear President Trump.”
Oh, he put his name in here, so I’ll say
it.
“Dear President Trump, My name is Yusif,
and I am from Iraq.
In January 2017, you won the presidency.
I should have arrived in the U.S.A.; however,
because you signed the immigration ban, I
had to wait until March.
My mother was already here in Spokane, Washington,
and I had not seen her in four years.
When I graduate from college, I will be a
DJ.
And if you want to learn more about me and
my mom’s story, you can watch our video
on YouTube.
Search 'Maha Al'Majidi’ and click on the
video called 'Iraqi refugee reunites with
her son.'
Sincerely, Yusif.”
So, the letters are just beautiful.
And some are very supportive of the president.
Most of them say “thank you” and how much
they appreciate being here the United States.
And, of course, some—I was just listening
to the show, your show, a little bit earlier,
and some do speak about his language about
people from Africa and how that hurts, and
it encourages other people to use that same
kind of language.
And it does not make for positive connections
within our community.
So, the students were great.
They had great insights into our nation.
And they were very respectful and kind.
AMY GOODMAN: Mandy Manning, when President
Trump called country—called Africa, which
he called a country, Africa, Haiti, other
countries “s—hole countries”—I mean,
you’re an English teacher.
You teach refugees and immigrants.
What did you tell your students that day?
MANDY MANNING: I told them that we love them,
that we know their value and that we can see
that this is a place for them to come to have
hope and dreams and be someone, and that we
want them here and that they are lovely, beautiful
human beings who make the United States a
richer, more beautiful country.
AMY GOODMAN: Mandy Manning, we want to thank
you for being with us, English and math teacher
who teaches refugee and immigrant students
from everywhere, from Iraq to Syria to Burma,
at the Joel E. Ferris High School in Spokane,
Washington.
She was just named the 2018 National Teacher
of the Year by the Council of Chief School
State Officers.
Last Wednesday, President Trump presented
her with the award during a ceremony at the
White House.
This is Democracy Now!
Stay with us.
