AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan González.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We turn now to the ongoing torrent of sexual
abuse allegations by women against powerful
men.
On Tuesday, President Donald Trump rushed
to the defense of Alabama Republican senate
candidate Roy Moore, pointing to Moore’s
denials of multiple accusations of sexual
assault and harassment against teenagers.
Trump also said voters should reject his Democratic
opponent, Doug Jones.
PRES.
TRUMP: We don’t need a liberal person in
there, a Democrat.
Jones, I’ve looked at his record.
It’s terrible on crime.
It’s terrible on the border.
It’s terrible on the military.
I can tell you for a fact, we do not need
somebody that’s going to be bad on crime,
bad on borders, bad with military, bad for
the Second Amendment.
REPORTER: Mr. President, is an accused child
molester better than a Democrat?
PRES.
TRUMP: Well, he denies it.
Look, he denies it.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: While speaking with reporters,
Trump was asked if he had a message for women.
REPORTER: Mr. President, what is your message
to women?
This is a pivotal moment in our nation’s
history.
PRES.
TRUMP: Women are very special.
I think it’s a very special time because
a lot of things are coming out and I think
that’s good for our society and I think
it is very, very good for women.
And I’m very happy a lot of these things
are coming out.
And I am very happy — I’m very happy it’s
being exposed.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: At least nine women have stepped
forward to say they were sexually harassed
or assaulted by Roy Moore as children, and
The New Yorker reports Moore was banned from
a local mall and a YMCA in Alabama because
he repeatedly badgered teenage girls.
Moore’s lawyer denies the ban existed.
Trump himself has been accused of sexual harassment
and assault by at least 16 women.
A leaked Access Hollywood video from 2005
recorded Trump boasting about sexually assaulting
women, saying, “When you’re a star, they
let you do it, grab ’em by the —.”
AMY GOODMAN: Meanwhile, CBS News, PBS and
Bloomberg all said, Tuesday, they are firing
TV icon Charlie rose and canceling distribution
of his programs.
Three more women who worked at CBS have also
stepped forward to accuse Rose of sexual harassment,
bringing the total number of his accusers
to at least nine.
Rose is accused of groping women, making lewd
phone calls, walking around naked or in untethered
bathrobe.
The latest charges come from three female
employees at CBS, one of whom says Rose whispered
a sexual innuendo while touching her inappropriately
at a work event.
On Tuesday, ”CBS This Morning” co-hosts
Gayle King and Norah O’Donnell addressed
sexual misconduct allegations against Charlie
rose.
NORAH O’DONNELL: This is a moment that demands
a frank and honest assessment about where
we stand and more generally the safety of
women.
Let me be very clear.
There is no excuse for this alleged behavior.
It is systematic and pervasive.
And I’ve been doing a lot of listening and
I’m going to continue to do that.
This I know is true.
Women cannot achieve equality in the workplace
or in society until there is a reckoning and
a taking of responsibility.
GAYLE KING: I am really struggling because
how do — what do you say when someone that
you deeply care about has done something that
is so horrible?
How do you wrap your brain around that?
I am really grappling with that.
That said, Charlie does not get a pass here.
He doesn’t get a pass from anyone in this
room.
We are all deeply affected.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Gayle King and Norah
O’Donnell.
In news from Capitol Hill, California Congress
member Jackie Speier says her Democratic colleague,
John Conyers of Michigan, was not one of two
sitting members of Congress who she knows
to have engaged in sexual harassment.
Congressman Conyers reportedly paid out $27,000
to settle a sexual harassment claim in 2015
with a former staffer who alleged she was
fired because she rejected his sexual advances.
Speier said, Tuesday, she knows of at least
two other lawmakers who’ve engaged in sexual
harassment — one Democrat and Republican.
Earlier this month, Speier accused an unnamed
colleague of exposing their genitals and said
victims had their private parts grabbed on
the House floor.
Speier has introduced the Me Too Congress
bill to reform sexual harassment policies
on Capitol Hill.
Among other reforms, the bill would end a
mandatory cooling-off period before accusers
can file sexual harassment claims.
When they go to a little-known office, first,
they are told they have to get therapy for
30 days and then they have to start a mediation
process where the lawyer represents the member
of Congress.
The overall process takes about 180 days.
Well, for more, we are joined in Indianapolis
by Jennifer Drobac, a professor and expert
in sexual harassment law at Indiana University’s
Robert H. McKinney School of Law.
The author of, “Sexual Harassment Law: History,
Cases and Theory,” most recently, “Sexual
Exploitation of Teenagers: Adolescent Development,
Discrimination, and Consent Law.”
Professor Drobac, thanks so much for joining
us.
Let’s begin with Roy Moore.
President Trump’s comments yesterday rocked
the country.
He had refrained from saying whether he would
support Roy Moore, but clearly, an implicit
endorsement yesterday when he said judge Moore
had denied the charges against him that were
brought now by at least nine women, one of
them as young as 14.
Can you talk about both what Roy Moore is
accused of, what sexual harassment law means
in this case, and President Trump’s implicit
endorsement saying the Democrat cannot get
in to that Senate seat in Alabama, should
not win?
JENNIFER DROBAC: OK, so let’s start with
Roy Moore.
The problem with Roy Moore is these allegations
don’t fall under typical anti-discrimination
law.
These women, young girls, really, were not
his employees.
He was not their teacher.
And so sexual harassment law doesn’t technically
cover it.
It’s really more personal injury law.
But that law doesn’t capture the systemic
nature of discrimination against women.
So, what he did at the time was illegal, possibly
criminal, but it really did not fit under
what we understand today as sexual harassment
law.
The president’s comments yesterday are appalling,
shocking, and yet, sadly, not very surprising
given his history.
So, we can be disappointed and shocked, but
I think this only goes to the idea that we
all need to step up and take responsibility
where our leaders are not.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Jennifer Drobac, I wanted
to ask you, your reaction to this deluge of
sexual harassment complaints that have surfaced
now in the last few weeks, given the fact
that many companies and corporations over
the last few years have really stepped up
what they call sexual harassment training
to their employees, and yet we’re still
continuing to see more and more of these cases
come to light now.
JENNIFER DROBAC: Right.
Well, the problem is, is that you can say
that we take these things very seriously,
but if companies don’t really do anything
other than a superficial training that key
executives may not participate in and that
other executives are rolling their eyes over,
this really does not address the problem.
Key executives need to demonstrate with their
action that they won’t tolerate this behavior
and that they are committed to creating a
safe workplace that promotes productivity
and values the dignity of all workers.
As far as what we’re seeing here, I think
it is a confluence of events starting with
the behavior that’s been clearly engaged
in for a long time by these men.
And occasionally, it’s women, but mostly
it is overwhelmingly by men.
And you see Roger Ailes, Bill Cosby, Harvey
Weinstein, on and on.
Then you also have the president during the
campaign.
He admits in a recorded conversation that
he’s a grabber.
And that is at least illegal behavior, possibly
criminal.
And then what happens?
He then proceeds to confirm the two fears
that women have.
First, women came forward and said, yes, he
did this to me.
So, what does he do then?
He calls them all liars, thereby confirming
the first fear, that women won’t be believed.
Second, he then threatened to sue them all.
That confirms the second fear women have,
is that they will be retaliated against.
So, when you have the president of the United
States, now the most powerful man in the world,
engaging in this kind of behavior and then
excusing it by a man running for the Senate,
a man who was formerly of the Alabama Supreme
Court — twice — then it sends a message
that women aren’t believed, will be retaliated
against, held in their place.
Then you have the #metoo campaign where we
learn how pervasive this behavior is and how,
really, no woman can avoid it.
And that the consequences are real.
And that confluence of events is now changing
our consciousness.
And while the circumstances themselves are
very sad, the consciousness is a good one.
And I think we all need to take this to the
next level and look forward as to how we’re
going to specifically address these issues
in the workplace, in schools, and out on the
street.
AMY GOODMAN: Jennifer Drobac, I wanted to
turn now to Charlie Rose, and this latest
news.
So, now we have — CBS News has fired Charlie
Rose, the host of ”CBS This Morning,”
correspondent with “60 Minutes.”
PBS, Bloomberg, canceling contracts, dumping
his programs, as more women step forward accusing
him of sexual harassment, bringing the total
number of accusers between The Washington
Post citing eight and now three women coming
forward from CBS.
Rose is accused of groping women, making lewd
phone calls, walking around naked in an open
bathrobe.
One of the women, the CBS staffer, said Rose
whispered sexual innuendo in her year while
touching her inappropriately at a work event.
The Washington Post sites one former intern
for Charlie Rose, named Reah Bravo saying
Rose repeatedly walked around naked in front
of her, repeatedly groped her, including one
time when he “grabbed me by my hair, holding
a fist at the base of my scalp.”
Another time Bravo says they were traveling
on a small private plane when he got out of
his seat and lay on top of her, pressing his
body onto hers.
Other women accuse Rose of forcefully touching
or trying to touch them without their consent.
One woman describes being in the midst of
a job hiring process with Rose, having already
been told salary and job title, when he took
her out to his Bellport, Long Island estate.
After sitting by the pool late at night, he
returned naked in an open bathrobe, proceeded
to force his hands down her pants.
According to The Post a number of people at
the Charlie Rose show reportedly knew about
Rose’s alleged sexual harassment, including
the long time producer, Yvette Vega.
The Post spoke to over twenty people for the
article.
At least a dozen more women, apparently, have
come forward to The Post since the article
was published yesterday.
Well, yesterday, a TMZ photojournalist briefly
spoke to Charlie Rose outside of his apartment
in New York City.
TMZ PHOTOJOURNALIST: Mr. Rose?
CHARLIE ROSE: How are you?
TMZ PHOTOJOURNALIST: Do you want to say anything
to those accusers, that’s accusing you?
CHARLIE ROSE: What?
TMZ PHOTOJOURNALIST: Do you want to say anything
to those accusers, the people that’s accusing
you of all these wrongdoings?
CHARLIE ROSE: It’s not wrongdoings.
AMY GOODMAN: He said, “it’s not wrongdoings,”
although he did issue a statement — a print
statement — where he did apologize.
Now, Jennifer Drobac, if you can talk about
sexual harassment law here in the workplace
and also, now, talk about the liability of
these networks.
His offices, his studio at Bloomberg, CBS,
apparently more people are now coming out.
And PBS as well.
How far does the liability go?
JENNIFER DROBAC: The liability extends to
the company.
Unfortunately, under current title VII law,
you typically cannot sue the perpetrator.
Under some state sexual harassment laws, you
can.
For example, in California, you can sue the
alleged perpetrator.
But, I think the most important thing to understand
is that there are, I think, three types of
perpetrators.
The first are the clueless.
In this day and age, it’s hard to imagine
there are still these people around, but there
are some people who honestly don’t appreciate
that their behavior — and it’s usually
fairly mild behavior — and that is behavior
that constitutes really sexual jokes, banter,
offensive remarks that shouldn’t be said
in the work place.
Those people are clueless.
And if you tell them that their behavior is
offensive, inappropriate, they typically feel
remorse and want to make amends.
The second type are the careless.
They really don’t care.
They know their behavior is inappropriate.
And as soon as they’re caught or reprimanded,
they understand that they need to change their
behavior if they want to keep their jobs.
And so, they will.
They don’t change their minds, but they
change their behaviors.
Finally, there are the, what I call corrupt
predators.
And those are most of the people we’re talking
about now.
They either know that they are engaging in
seriously, often violent or illegal and criminal
behavior, and they simply don’t care or
they can’t help themselves.
Their egos have now gotten so big that they
think they can do anything.
And again, this is describing some of the
people we’re talking about here.
So employers, if the person engaged in this
behavior is a supervisor, employers are strictly
liable unless the complainants have taken
action per company rules to let them know
that this behavior is going on.
In other words, the company is liable for
what the supervisor is doing in most cases.
Alternatively, if it’s coworker harassment
or if the company is the — if the perpetrator
is not in a position of authority and is a
coworker, companies are liable if they knew
or should have known.
And really, in these circumstances, these
men were operating, people knew they were
operating.
Companies are going to be liable.
So, while they may have policies and procedures,
again, if key executives are letting rainmakers
and powerful men engage in this behavior so
they can keep them at the company, that’s
going to be a problem for these companies.
And it’s a problem for all of us because
it decreases productivity.
It makes women unsafe.
And it creates an environment that simply
cannot continue.
AMY GOODMAN: Jennifer Drobac, we want to thank
you for being with us, professor and expert
in sexual harassment law at Indiana University’s
Robert H. McKinney School of Law.
Author of “Sexual Harassment Law: History,
Cases and Theory” and most recently, “Sexual
Exploitation of Teenagers: Adolescent Development,
Discrimination, and Consent Law.”
