AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show with an update on
a case that could shape the future of free
speech and the right to protest in the United
States.
Final arguments are underway today in Washington,
D.C., for the first trial of the nearly 200
people arrested during President Trump’s
inauguration.
As demonstrators, journalists and observers
gathered in Northwest D.C. after the inauguration,
on January 20th, some separated from the group
and broke windows of nearby businesses and
damaged cars.
Police officers then swept hundreds of people
in the vicinity into a blockaded corner in
a process known as “kettling,” where they
carried out mass arrests of everyone in the
area.
The first so-called J20 trial could go to
a jury as early as today, and involves six
people, including one journalist, Alexei Wood,
a freelance photojournalist.
The defendants face multiple felony and misdemeanor
charges, including multiple counts of destruction
of property.
Evidence against the defendants has been scant
from the moment of their arrest.
Earlier this week, Superior Court Judge Lynn
Leibovitz threw out the felony charge of inciting
a riot for the six people on trial now, meaning
they now face up to 50 years in prison instead
of up to 60.
This comes as police conduct on Inauguration
Day has come under scrutiny by the ACLU, and
the chief detective in this case is a police
union official who tweeted that police showed
great restraint during the inauguration.
Well, for more, we go to Washington, D.C.
We’re joined by Jude Ortiz, a member of
the organizing crew of Defend J20 and the
Mass Defense Committee chair for National
Lawyers Guild.
He’s been in court throughout this first
J20 trial.
Jude, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Explain what has happened so far and the significance
of the judge throwing out the charge.
JUDE ORTIZ: Right.
Thank you so much for having me on again.
So, since I was on last, the prosecutor has
rested their entire case with all the so-called
evidence against the defendants, and then
the defense has also put on their witnesses
to—like as part of their right to have witnesses
come and testify on their behalf.
That process for the defense was very short,
about only about half a day in court.
And then, now it’s into the like final arguments
stage.
So the prosecutors had their argument first,
and then each of the defense attorneys for
the defendants are putting on their arguments.
This morning at 9:30, there will be the final
two defendants, will have their closing arguments,
and then the prosecutor will do a rebuttal.
Then there will be some more kind of like
legal housekeeping to do, before it goes to
the jury.
So, the judge throwing out the inciting a
riot charge was a huge development in the
case.
It’s something that after the prosecutor
rests their case, defense attorneys will almost
always file a motion to have the charges dismissed.
In D.C., it’s called a motion for judgment
of acquittal.
And it’s a formality, for the most part.
It’s rarely ever successful.
So it was really notable that one of the most
significant charges against the defendants,
not only in this trial bloc, but also in the
case as a whole, was found, in this case,
at least, to have no evidentiary basis at
all.
So, basically, the judge said that the state
did not meet the burden of proof, and that
charge therefore was dismissed, and the jury
will not have to deliberate on that one at
all.
AMY GOODMAN: So, but explain what that means,
because we’re talking about numerous cases
that will follow this one.
Does this judge preside over all of these
cases if the inciting to riot remains in the
other cases?
JUDE ORTIZ: At this point, the judge is assigned
to all the other cases.
It’s important to note that there’s another
case that is scheduled for this coming Monday
for seven defendants, but that one probably
will not be happening on Monday, because the
jury will still be deliberating on this case.
So, it’s unclear when the second trial will
begin.
It’s looking like it might be in January.
And then, on March 5th of next year, all the
way through October of next year, are all
the remaining trials.
And starting in May, there’s a trial scheduled
for every single week.
But the judge has indicated that her rotation,
her job assignment, is switching from criminal
court to family court as of January 2nd, so
there will be a new judge or judges beginning
in 2018.
AMY GOODMAN: Why do you see this case as so
significant for free speech in the United
States?
JUDE ORTIZ: So, on January 20th, the police
rounded up everyone who they can get a hold
of in this vicinity.
The police commander who testified at the
beginning of the trial, or towards the beginning
of trial, was very clear, both in his testimony
as well as recordings from the police radio,
that they were interested in the protest—it
was an anti-fascist, anti-capitalist march—and
they responded to that kind of preemptively
by having around a hundred riot cops and their
like lieutenants and sergeants, whatnot, there
at Logan Circle, where the protest was scheduled
to depart from and begin.
And that commander said that rather than doing
what is typical in D.C., where they do rolling
road closures to facilitate the exercise of
free speech, instead they showed up with numerous
vans full of riot police, and then they followed
the march and began, pretty much immediately,
to start to crack down on the march.
That commander repeatedly used the word “anarchist”
to describe everybody who was there.
And that officer—or, that commander and
other officers talked about everybody being
like one group with nefarious intent.
So, from the outset, because of the alleged
politics of the march and of the people who
were there, the police responded in this very
heavy-handed manner that culminated in them
rounding everybody up and mass-arresting people.
And the prosecutor has continued that by going
forward with these charges against everyone.
So, when that is the kind of method of operations,
for the police going hand in hand with the
prosecutor, that sends a very chilling message
to anybody who’s interested in going out
in the streets and voicing dissent, especially
dissent to Trump, dissent to the rise of fascism,
dissent to white supremacy, heteropatriarchy,
like all these other like very devastating
systems of oppression.
AMY GOODMAN: Jude, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Qureshi, the second-ranking prosecutor, who
made closing arguments, said, in those arguments,
a street medic was guilty by being present,
and asked, “What do you need a medic with
gauze for?
She was aiding and abetting the riot.
That was her role,” Qureshi said.
Respond to that.
JUDE ORTIZ: So, that’s an entirely ludicrous
claim.
Medics have been at protests across the country
for decades to be able to provide first aid
type of care to people who are injured in
various ways.
One of the most notable ways people get injured
at protests, as your listeners and viewers
know, is by actions from the police.
On January 20th, there was a massive amount
of pepper spray deployed by police on people,
sometimes directly in the face, sometimes
on the side or from behind.
And we saw this in trial through body cam—body-worn
camera videos.
There’s also a lot of body-worn camera videos
of police knocking people down from behind
with their batons.
One of the officers who testified ran his
bike directly into a protester.
And so, there’s all these different ways
that the people who are out there like in
the streets can get injured very easily.
There’s also the elements to deal with.
In January, it was very cold, for the January
20th inauguration protest.
Lots of different reasons why you’d have
medics there in order to like render aid to
people who get injured.
That prosecutor said that the supplies that
were there kind of show that the medics, in
general, were kind of like prepared for war,
which is a—it’s as insulting as it is
ludicrous to say that people who were out
there in the streets were prepared for war,
especially when you saw the Department of
Homeland Security helicopter video showing
all the police operations that were happening
there on Inauguration Day, how the police
took this like paramilitary approach, that
was also supported by the National Guard in
order to like corral people and use chemical
and projectile weapons against people.
So, if there was any kind of warlike conditions,
that was coming from the police and from the
government, and not from people who were there
to render aid.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to ask you about some
of the videos submitted as evidence in this
case by federal prosecutors.
This includes video by the Canadian YouTuber
Lauren Southern, who the Southern Poverty
Law Center describes as, quote, “tiptoe[ing]
at the precipice of outright white nationalism.”
Southern was there on January 20th, Inauguration
Day, and was kettled during the protest, but
was allowed to leave without being arrested.
Prosecutors also submitted video evidence
from the right-wing militia group Oath Keepers,
who infiltrated protest planning meetings
and secretly recorded them.
Prosecutors also presented video from the
discredited far-right group Project Veritas,
just one day after The Washington Post reported
Project Veritas had tried to dupe them with
a false story of sexual misconduct by a woman
undercover pretending to be a victim of Roy
Moore.
Go into this and why this matters, Jude Ortiz.
JUDE ORTIZ: It’s appalling to see so much
of the state’s—the prosecution’s case
and their so-called like evidence coming from
overtly far-right sources.
So, the Project Veritas video that you mention,
it did come out in the courtroom as like a
main piece of evidence, exactly like one day
after that story broke.
And one would think that that would kind of
discredit or like cast into doubt like the
kind of truthfulness or the usefulness of
that evidence.
The prosecutor and the police officer who
was testifying about it gave no indication
that the source of it was at all even a question
mark or some cause of concern.
The state, through various witnesses, the
detectives who like testified about the video
and whatnot, admitted that they did no kind
of forensic investigation or examination of
the tape to make sure that it wasn’t doctored
in some way.
Project Veritas, of course, is notorious for
doctoring in the editing of their videos.
And they were presented to the jury as one
of their main pieces of evidence, and especially
with the idea of conspiracy.
And so, when so much of the so-called evidence
against these defendants and the defendants
at large depends on this kind of so-called
like investigative work of far-right actors,
it really shows how the state itself, but
with their police investigators, undercover
cops infiltrating political protest planning
meetings, the undercover and plainclothes
police who were present on the march and like
in the streets that day—all of these different
like state actors were not able to find the
evidence that would substantiate the charges
the prosecutor has been so ferociously pursuing,
and so they have to supplement that and really
kind of create the evidentiary base through
drawing on the far right.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask you about the
main detective working full time on the J20
case, Greggory Pemberton.
On Inauguration Day, January 20th, he tweeted
D.C. police officers used a, quote, “inspiring
amount of restraint” and showed “professionalism.”
Last November, he also tweeted about, quote,
“disingenuous 'activists' who peddle lies
and falsehood.”
During the J20 trial, defense lawyers played
this clip of an interview Pemberton gave to
the far-right media outlet One America News
Network, praising President Trump.
GREGGORY PEMBERTON: He certainly has a message
of law and order, and he really is appealing
to a lot of police officers.
… Police officers want to hear that someone
is going to come in and not allow this divisive,
vitriolic rhetoric of this false narrative
that all police officers are inherently criminal
racists that are out here committing crimes
against the citizens, and that they’re going
to come in and put a stop to that.
AMY GOODMAN: Jude Ortiz, as we wrap up, can
you respond to the significance of his involvement
with the case and what he’s saying here?
JUDE ORTIZ: Yes.
The detective, Pemberton, has claimed that
he has looked through hundreds of hours of
videos, hundreds of times, since January 21st.
It’s been his full-time job, his only assignment.
He was able, through that review, to present
various compilation boards of photographs,
as well as videos and PowerPoints, to give
to the jury for their deliberations, that
claims to have documentation of the location
of each of the defendants all throughout the
march, and presenting this as if that’s
something that, like, being present like in
the streets is a sign of guilt and is evidence
of guilt of all these charges.
So it’s a tremendous amount of work that
is like put in for these like very politically
motivated way—or, reasons.
And those political motivations are pretty
clear when you look at his Twitter feed, with
all of the far-right and pro-Trump things
that he has promoted, like through retweets
and through likes and through his own comments
on Twitter.
He claimed on the stand that that was only
in the kind of exercise of his position as
a board member of the police union.
But whether that’s true or whether it’s
his own personal opinions, those opinions
that are put forward are very much in favor
of like right-wing causes and very much against
liberal or progressive, like radical-left
causes and movements.
And he’s even done very inflammatory and
insulting things, like saying “black lies
matter”—L-I-E-S—instead of “Black
Lives Matter,” and discounting that entire
movement, that has been so prominent in responding
to police violence and brutality across the
country.
AMY GOODMAN: Finally, shortly after winning
the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump
tweeted his thoughts on dissent.
He tweeted, “Nobody should be allowed to
burn the American flag–if they do, there
must be consequences–perhaps loss of citizenship
or year in jail!”
Your final comment, Jude Ortiz?
JUDE ORTIZ: I think comments like that show
the kind of concerted effort and nature of
repression of social movements in the United
States.
I want to clarify that: I mean like left social
movements.
The right social movements, that have become
more prominent and public under Trump, have
been facilitated by the state.
We’re seeing that in places like Charlottesville.
We’re seeing that in places like St. Louis
and all across the country.
People need to recognize like how things are
shifting, and be ready to be out in resistance,
to dissent and to not be scared away.
And this case is a very important part of
that.
AMY GOODMAN: Jude Ortiz, I want to thank you
for being with us, member of the organizing
crew of Defend J20 and the Mass Defense Committee
chair for the National Lawyers Guild.
He’s been in court throughout this first
J20 trial.
And we’ll keep you updated on this and other
trials as they go on.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, the movement to impeach
President Trump, where does it stand, from
Congress to counties, cities, towns across
the United States?
Stay with us.
