AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
This week marks five months since Hurricane
Maria battered the island of Puerto Rico.
The island is still facing a massive recovery
effort.
While the official death toll is just 64,
it’s believed more than 1,000 people died
since the storm struck September 20th.
More than a quarter of the island remains
without power, marking the longest blackout
in U.S. history.
Wide swaths of the island were recently plunged
back into darkness after an explosion and
fire at an electrical station, sparking fears
about the vulnerability of the Puerto Rican
electrical system.
Meanwhile, the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, known as FEMA, is facing criticism
after it was revealed only a fraction of the
30 million meals slated to be sent to the
island after Hurricane Maria were actually
delivered.
FEMA approved a $156 million contract for
a one-woman company to deliver 30 million
meals.
But in the end, FEMA canceled the contract,
after she just delivered 50,000 meals, in
what FEMA called a logistical nightmare.
Well, on Friday, Democracy Now!’s Juan González
and I spoke to the mayor of San Juan, Carmen
Yulín Cruz.
I started by asking her what the situation
on the island is, five months after Hurricane
Maria hit.
MAYOR CARMEN YULÍN CRUZ: We are facing putting
together a massive recovery effort.
And that is part of the problem.
It doesn’t seem—wheels are spinning, but
things don’t seem to get off the ground.
The botched effort continues to be deciphered.
Fifty-five percent more—increase in the
suicide rate, which tells you the mental state
where people are at because of the dire situations
and living conditions that we’re still in.
As you mentioned, 25 percent of the island
is still without power.
And just last night, Judge Taylor Swain denied
the administration’s request for an emergency
loan for our power authority.
So the government is now saying that employees
are going to be let go, laid off, and that
we’re going to go to program blackouts.
So, for many people, it will mean going back
to September 20th, at least for a few days
during the week.
Our power grid is still very unstable, even
those of us that have electricity.
Just in San Juan this past Sunday, a massive
community of San Juan just got electricity
for the first time, but things come and go.
So we’re facing a privatization on the energy
front.
We’re also facing privatization of the educational
point.
The local government of Puerto Rico has introduced
the concept of charter schools and has said
that it’s going to privatize schools.
It almost seems like the perfect storm for
disaster economics or what they call disaster
capitalism.
Everything seems to be out there for sale,
while those essential services, that do more
than provide services—they are sort of the
equalizers of our society—are all put on
sale.
Still, the money from FEMA is not coming.
The municipalities are facing a dire need
of cash in order to continue to provide services
and make payroll.
For San Juan, the situation is a little better,
but we are still in a very delicate financial
situation.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Mayor, I’d like to ask you
about the role of the oversight board imposed
by Congress.
I saw on their site that they issued a bunch
of letters to the governor on February 5th,
basically saying that the governor’s plan
for what was going to happen with the water
authority was not sufficient, that they wanted
a 17 percent cut in costs, because the water
authority is projecting a 17 percent loss
in water revenues as a result of the storm.
They told the government that its overall
financial plan was not sufficient in terms
of cuts.
Amazingly, I saw that they wanted the government
to plan to create a debt—a budget reserve,
extra cash in the budget, while cutting other
services.
I’m wondering how you see the role of the
oversight board, which is supposed to be helping
Puerto Rico’s economy right itself.
MAYOR CARMEN YULÍN CRUZ: Well, you know,
I have been against the oversight board from
the beginning, just because it’s anti-democratic.
Seven people that were not selected by our
democracy—and we’re in Democracy Now!—are
now making the final decisions.
I may have very different views than the governor
of Puerto Rico about how he has handled this
crisis, about how he supported the Trump administration
in their botched effort and said they were
doing a great job.
But he is the governor Puerto Rico.
He was elected in a democratic manner.
So, one of the things that is important about
the legislation put forward by Senator Warren
and Senator Bernie Sanders, with Nydia Velázquez
and Luis Gutiérrez, is that it puts in the
hands of Puerto Ricans the recovery of Puerto
Rico.
And if one thing was proven, it’s that you
cannot put the standard operating procedures
of FEMA and other organizations and just put
them on the ground here in this small island
nation in the Caribbean and say that things
are going to work as they have worked in other
places before.
So, the fiscal control board is here for one
thing.
And that thing is to get the bondholders to
get paid.
Now, initially, the governor, when he was
campaigning, said that the Puerto Rican government
had to pay.
And now, in this new fiscal plan, which is
really an austerity plan, the governor submits
it to the fiscal control board, and the fiscal
control board says, “No, we want more.
We want more taxation.
We want more privatization, because we want—we
want less education,” because the fiscal
control board is taking about $500 million
away from our largest public educational system,
the University of Puerto Rico, and is taking
away moneys from the municipalities.
So, the fiscal control board is here for one
thing, and it is to ensure that bondholders
get every single penny that they can.
Now, should you pay for the loans that you
made?
You should pay for some part, but that should
not come on the shoulders and stomping on
the hopes and the livelihood of the Puerto
Rican people.
This is why Senator Gillibrand has also put
together legislation, and basically it’s
a Marshall Plan for Puerto Rico, which is
something that I have been very keen on advocating
for.
You know, the United States did it in World
War II for Europe.
So, let us just wipe out the entire debt and
begin again, but let us make sure that Puerto
Rico still have access to capital markets.
AMY GOODMAN: We started this conversation
by saying it’s been five months since Hurricane
Maria hit.
That’s the longest U.S. blackout in history,
with what?
Is it—do you agree with these figures?
Are a quarter of the island still without
electricity, not even to mention the latest
blackout?
What are the facts and figures on the ground,
including what you understand the number of
people killed—officially 60-something, our
numbers are something like a thousand?
MAYOR CARMEN YULÍN CRUZ: Yeah.
Let me start towards that.
In October, I was in a visit in the United
States, and I used the numbers that the central
government of Puerto Rico was given.
The central government of Puerto Rico was
saying, in September, we had 991 cremations
or deaths.
That’s about more—500 more than we have
ever had.
And it sort of continued that way in October.
So, it is more than a thousand people that
have died, because you have to count not only
the people that died directly while the storm
was taking place, but the people that have
died because they don’t have oxygens in
their homes or because there were no oxygen
tanks at the hospitals, or the people that
have died because of the botched effort, because
their own diseases were, let’s say, made
even worse.
They didn’t have their diabetic medication,
their insulin and so forth.
So, if you look at the suicide rate, which
has gone up 55 percent, you know that more
than a thousand people have died.
So I think that one of the important things
that should come out of this devastating humanitarian
crisis is that we should look at the way that
we define a crisis and a situation of dire
need.
That’s number one.
Number two, yes, it is about 25 percent.
The problem is that you may have an urban
area where five houses in one street are lit
up, and the other five houses are not lit
up.
And that creates what the government is calling
and PREPA is calling bolsillos, pockets.
And those pockets really are very unequal.
And it seems to be that the majority of the
people that now don’t have electricity,
which also impacts in them not having water,
because a lot of the pumps—Yabucoa, which
is the town where Maria came through, the
mayor was telling me that he has 16 generators
that he is paying for, that are put in various
water pumps in order to ensure that the people
of Yabucoa have power, enough to move the
water.
So it creates an escalated situation.
The issue is, the fiscal control board put
together another petition this morning, very
early in the morning, for a much lower amount
of loan.
But if you don’t have electricity, if you
don’t have an appropriate grid, you will
not be able to jumpstart the economic motor
of Puerto Rico.
So one of the things that we continually ask
for and I continually advocate for is a waiver
on the Stafford Act.
Why?
The Stafford Act, that controls FEMA or gives
life to FEMA, tells us that we need to build
everything the exact same way as it was before.
Well, yes, we need to pull back the electrical
grid, but we also need to set the platform
to transform and move from our addiction to
fossil fuel to other sources of renewable
energy.
I am calling—and I will use your platform
to do this—I am calling on any company in
the United States that wants to provide and
wants to build solar panels in Puerto Rico.
Why?
Because now you have a tax in the United States,
that when you import—thanks to Donald Trump—that
when you import solar panels from outside
of the United States, you pay a 30 percent
tax.
So come to San Juan.
We will make sure that it’s worth your while,
because we have the legal tools in order to
say we will put a waiver on the property tax
that you have to pay, and we will put a waiver
on the municipal taxes that you have to pay.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Mayor, to follow up on that
issue of the electrical generation, my sister,
who lives in Cayey, is one of the many Puerto
Ricans who only recently got power back on.
Last weekend in Cayey, they finally got electricity.
But in the weeks before that, she says that
there were private companies—in the days
before that, private companies going door
to door trying to convince the residents of
her neighborhood to basically sign on to a
private electrical generation system.
So, apparently, the governor and the PROMESA
board both agree on the issue of privatizing
electricity.
But can you talk about what the private electrical
companies have already started doing in terms
of creating not solar, but their own privatized
versions of PREPA?
MAYOR CARMEN YULÍN CRUZ: Yes.
And this is—we also have to own up and take
a look at what we have done that was not appropriately.
The central government of Puerto Rico waited
60 days in order to invoke APA and have all
these private companies from the United States
come and work here.
We in San Juan have been working closely with
the New York Power Authority.
And they have been doing—you know, it’s
almost breathtaking when people see them in
the street, and they say—because you know
that behind them comes electricity, and behind
electricity comes an ability to at least have
some semblance of a normal life and providing
a good life for your family and for your community.
This has not been the case in other towns.
I always remind people that don’t look at
what is happening in San Juan and think that
that is the exact same thing that is happening
across Puerto Rico.
As you move further from the metropolitan
area, things are still—I just got off the
phone with a woman in Morovis, a teacher in
Morovis, where in a couple of locations during
the past few weeks, from San Juan, we have
sent them powdered milk and water, because
the children don’t have powdered milk and
water in their schools.
So, it is important that people know that
things are different.
There have been been mayors—the mayor of
Comerío—that have talked about, “Look,
let me help.
What can I do, from the standpoint of a municipality,
to ensure that you can do your job?”
And what they have been told—and this is
a quote from the mayor of Comerío, Josian
Santiago—what they have been told is “Look,
you cannot open this road for us to go up
the hill and do the work that we need to do,
because the Army Corps of Engineers has subcontracted
that.
And the Army Corps of Engineers is waiting
for the company that they have subcontracted
to bring their agreement to Puerto Rico to
get the job done,” to which the mayor has
said, “But I have the equipment.
I can get it done right now.”
And they’ve said, from PREPA, “Well, we’re
sorry, but we have to wait, because we already
subcontracted that.”
The private companies are starting to leave
by mid-March.
But yesterday, just yesterday, the Army Corps
of Engineers said that they no longer could
comply with their goal of having 90 to 95
percent of the island nation of Puerto Rico
energized by February, that they were thinking
that that could happen perhaps by March, but
it would be better off if they said by April.
So what they promised first by December, which
the governor and the Army Corps of Engineers
had a tit-for-tat regarding that, then they
promised for February, and now they’re saying,
you know, it’s most likely in April.
So this keeps pushing back any opportunity
that we have.
Now, what does this create?
It creates desperation amongst people, so
that people, when you ask them in the street,
“Are you in favor of privatization of the
electrical company?”
they say yes.
Now, when you ask them—and the governor
of Puerto Rico made a terrible statement yesterday.
When asked in New York, “Why would anybody
buy PREPA, the Puerto Rico power authority?”
he said, “Well, there’s a lot of space
for making profits, because the Puerto Rican
people are used to paying high prices for
energy,” so as telling those that were listening,
“Look, you may lower the cost of production
of energy, leave the price at a very high,
and this gap will be yours.”
If that’s not disaster economics and if
that is not setting the stage for the commercialization
of services, that are there to promote equality
amongst people, I don’t know what it is.
AMY GOODMAN: We’ll continue with Carmen
Yulín Cruz, the mayor of San Juan, Puerto
Rico, talking about privatization, FEMA, President
Trump and more, coming up.
