AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And I'm Nermeen Shaikh.
Welcome to our listeners and viewers around
the country and around the world.
We begin today’s show in Beijing, where
President Trump is in talks with Chinese leader
Xi Jinping, following a lavish welcome on
Wednesday that was billed as a “state visit-plus”
and included the first state dinner for a
U.S. president inside the Forbidden City.
The welcoming ceremony outside Beijing’s
Great Hall of the People was broadcast live
on state television—unprecedented treatment
for a visiting leader.
Trump used the talks to call on China to sever
ties with North Korea.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: The United States
is committed to the complete and permanent
denuclearization of North Korea.
So important.
China can fix this problem easily and quickly.
And I am calling on China and your great president
to hopefully work on it very hard.
I know one thing about your president: If
he works on it hard, it will happen.
There’s no doubt about it.
They know.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Before arriving in Beijing,
Trump used an address to the National Assembly
in Seoul, South Korea, to deliver a stern
message to China, North Korea’s biggest
trade partner.
North Korean state media responded in a statement
Wednesday, saying the United States should,
quote, “oust the lunatic old man from power”
and withdraw its hostile policy “in order
to get rid of the abyss of doom.”
Meanwhile, on Wednesday, China insisted it
is already fully enforcing U.N. sanctions.
This is Chinese President Xi Jinping.
PRESIDENT XI JINPING: [translated] Regarding
the Korean Peninsula nuclear issue, we reaffirm
that we are staunchly committed to realizing
the denuclearization of the peninsula and
upholding the international nuclear nonproliferation
system.
Both sides will continue to strictly enact
all U.N. Security Council resolutions.
And at the same time, we are committed to
continuing to solve the North Korean nuclear
issue through dialogue and talks.
AMY GOODMAN: During President Trump’s China
visit, the leaders of the world’s two largest
economies discussed their trade deficit.
On the campaign trail, Trump bashed China’s
trade policies, once accusing China of “raping”
the United States.
This is Trump then.
DONALD TRUMP: We have a $500 billion deficit,
trade deficit, with China.
We’re going to turn it around.
And we have the cards.
Don’t forget, we’re like the piggy bank
that’s being robbed.
We have the cards.
We have a lot of power with China.
When China doesn’t want to fix the problem
in North Korea, we say, “Sorry, folks, you’ve
got to fix the problem,” because we can’t
continue to allow China to rape our country.
And that’s what they’re doing.
AMY GOODMAN: So that was President Trump on
the campaign trail, when he was, well, just
candidate Trump.
On Wednesday in Beijing, he struck a more
conciliatory tone.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Right now, unfortunately,
it is a very one-sided and unfair one.
But—but I don’t blame China.
After all, who can blame a country for being
able to take advantage of another country
for the benefit of its citizens?
I give China great credit.
But in actuality, I do blame past administrations
for allowing this out-of-control trade deficit
to take place and to grow.
AMY GOODMAN: Roughly $250 billion in deals
with U.S. companies are expected to be announced
during Trump’s visit.
Human rights activists and even Trump’s
fellow Republicans have urged him to use his
trip to challenge China over its crackdown
on dissidents and call for the release of
political prisoners.
Senator Marco Rubio and Congressman Chris
Smith issued a statement urging him to raise
the forced isolation and ongoing surveillance
of the wife of the late Nobel laureate Liu
Xiaobo.
Since arriving in China, where Twitter is
banned, Trump has tweeted at least five times.
A White House official said Trump would, quote,
“tweet whatever he wants.”
Trump is on a five-nation tour in Asia and
has already visited South Korea and Japan.
He goes next to Vietnam, where he’s expected
to meet with the Russian president, Vladimir
Putin, and then on to the Philippines.
We’re going now to Beijing, China, where
we’re joined by Joanna Chiu, China correspondent
for Agence France-Presse.
Joanna, it’s great to have you with us.
Can you talk about the significance of Trump’s
trip to China and also talk about the reaction
of the Chinese people to the American president?
JOANNA CHIU: Right.
So, thanks for having me.
It seems like Trump’s visit, his first visit
as president to China, has gone without a
hitch.
As you said, he had a very lavish welcome.
He was the only foreign leader in recent history
to dine in the Forbidden City palace.
And today, he just had—he’s wrapping up
another state dinner with President Xi, where
he showed a video of his granddaughter, Arabella,
singing in Mandarin Chinese.
And that went over well.
So, as far as we can tell, the visit was successful.
And Trump and his counterpart seem to have
reached some consensus on some of the big
issues that have been points of tension between
the two countries.
I think a highlight was trade.
We were—some reporters were surprised at
the tone that Trump gave during his remarks
today.
While it was softened from what he was like
during the campaign trail, it was quite tough.
At the same time, he also lavished a lot of
praise on Xi Jinping, and the two leaders
seemed very comfortable around each other.
So, it seems like it went well.
As you said, human rights wasn’t brought
up as a focus.
Neither was the climate.
So, it seemed like the talks focused on trade
and on what China and the U.S. could do on
the North Korean nuclear peninsula issue.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And—
JOANNA CHIU: As far as the reception from
the Chinese—mm-hmm?
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Sorry, Joanna, I wanted to
ask you, just to put this into some context:
Why is it that China has granted Trump such
an extraordinary—in fact, unprecedented—welcome,
including a state dinner in the Forbidden
City, the first time a U.S. president has
received such treatment?
JOANNA CHIU: Yeah, so reporters did ask that
question yesterday to the Foreign Ministry
in Beijing, and they said that it’s what
a host country should do.
They said that Trump received a similar lavish
welcome from the Japanese before he came to
China.
So that’s how they addressed why he got
this big welcome.
AMY GOODMAN: And explain what the Forbidden
City is.
JOANNA CHIU: So, the Forbidden City, it’s
right in the center of Beijing.
It’s right in the center.
It’s where emperors for different dynasties
had their center of power.
So it’s a very symbolic place.
And it’s unprecedented that they would shut
down the whole thing—it’s a big tourist
attraction—to host the president and Melania.
AMY GOODMAN: To say the least, it’s a different
tone that he is adopting.
I mean, it’s not just tone.
He talked about China “raping” the U.S.,
on the campaign trail, fiercely went after
China, and now said it’s not actually China’s
fault.
He understands why a country would take advantage
of another country on behalf of its own people.
He blamed past administrations—clearly,
the Obama administration.
Can you talk about your thoughts?
To a good deal of applause when he said that.
JOANNA CHIU: Yes.
Yeah, that was quite an unexpected and cheeky
statement.
It wasn’t as harsh it was—he was like
earlier, but it was quite tough.
And people were applause—people were clapping,
but in a quite an awkward way.
They were surprised by the tone he had.
AMY GOODMAN: In fact, Trump had repeatedly
attacked China, at one point saying, “I’m
going to instruct my treasury secretary to
label China a currency manipulator.”
So, what do the trade talks mean right now?
What is Trump trying to get?
Trump, who seems to be at his weakest level
in this year, in terms of popularity in the
United States—
JOANNA CHIU: Well, he’s trying to reduce
the trade deficit that the U.S. is currently—
AMY GOODMAN: —and President Xi has consolidated
power.
JOANNA CHIU: —running with China, at as
much as $350 billion.
And the $250 billion in the U.S.-Chinese business
deals that were signed today, analysts say
that they’re not going to do much to reduce
this really big trade deficit.
AMY GOODMAN: I was just asking that question
about Trump at his lowest popularity in the
United States now, at a time when President
Xi has consolidated power.
And if you can talk about President Xi in
China, how he is seen, and what this—him
being at his point of greatest strength right
now is all about?
We’re talking to Joanna Chiu, who is the
China correspondent for Agence France-Presse.
We’re going to—
JOANNA CHIU: Hello?
Can you hear me?
AMY GOODMAN: Yes, Joanna, we can hear you.
I was just asking about the—
JOANNA CHIU: Hello?
AMY GOODMAN: Can you hear me now, Joanna?
We’ll go to a break, and we’ll come back.
We’re talking to Joanna Chiu in Beijing,
China.
She is the China correspondent for the Agence
France-Presse.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Run or Hide” by Run River
North.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
We’re speaking about President Trump’s
visit to China right now, part of his five-Asian-nation
trip.
He’s headed on to Vietnam, where he may
be meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir
Putin, and then to the Philippines.
We’re joined in Beijing, China, by Joanna
Chiu, who’s the China correspondent for
Agence France-Presse, for AFP, and Rajan Menon,
professor of political science at the Powell
School at the City University of New York,
senior research fellow in the Saltzman Institute
of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University,
as well.
Professor Menon, let me put that question
to you, about Xi at his greatest strength
right now, the president of China, and Trump
at his weakest point in popularity and how
he’s seen within his own party.
The elections just took place, a referendum
on Trump, and he lost badly.
RAJAN MENON: Good morning, Amy.
There is quite a contrast.
As you know, last year, there was a party—last
month, there was a party congress in China.
Xi came out in a very powerful position.
There is now something called “Xi Jinping
Thought.”
Contrast that with Mr. Trump, the last I looked,
his popularity ratings around below 40 percent.
The Russia controversy continues to dog him.
There’s no legislation that he’s gotten
through Congress.
So it is a significant contrast, no doubt.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And, you know, on Tuesday,
Trump told—when he was speaking in Seoul,
he said that the U.S. stands ready to attack
North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
The question is—and now he’s just been
in China—how much leverage does China have
on North Korea?
And what does Trump expect from China?
RAJAN MENON: To hear Mr. Trump say it and
the American foreign policy establishment
say it, you would think that if Xi Jinping
picked up the phone and called Kim Jong-un
and said, “I want you to dismantle your
nuclear facilities,” he would do that.
That is a complete myth.
For one thing, there’s an enormous amount
of bad blood between North Korea and China.
And the tougher China is and we are on North
Korea, the more likely they are to hang on
to their nuclear weapons.
That’s the first thing.
The second thing is that the Chinese already
voted for the very tough U.N. sanctions in
August and September.
Ninety-six percent of North Korea’s trade
is with China, but the Chinese don’t want
to asphyxiate, to choke the regime to death,
for fear that it will collapse.
That collapse would have immediate consequences
for them economically and strategically.
For one thing, in the long term, they, the
Chinese, cannot exclude the possibility that
a collapse in North Korea would mean, down
the line, a unified Korean Peninsula aligned
to the United States.
AMY GOODMAN: Joanna Chiu, you’re speaking
to us from Beijing.
You’re covering extensively President Trump’s
trip.
How is North Korea seen in China?
JOANNA CHIU: So the Chinese see North Korea
as their neighbors.
And generally, the Chinese have a pretty favorable
view of people they share a border with.
There is a lot of concern about all this nuclear
rhetoric.
And China has said repeatedly, in response
to criticism from the U.S. and other international
bodies, that it completely, faithfully implements
the U.N. Security Council resolutions, including
sanctions.
And these sanctions, as you know, has increased
in the past year.
What we don’t know, because there are no
independent checks at the borders, is how
well China really is reinforcing these sanctions.
For example, just anecdotally, I visited the
border with North Korea a couple months ago,
and people there told me that they still get
gold and silver from North Korea, even though
it’s been long banned under the U.N. sanctions.
And just a few weeks ago, I went to some North
Korean restaurants in Beijing and asked about
their business, and they said every day they
get seafood imports from North Korea to Beijing.
And that’s also against the sanctions.
So, it’s unclear how well China is enforcing,
but definitely China is saying they’re doing
all they can.
And their tone is that they should not be
the ones who shoulder all the blame.
They want the U.S. to reduce its more inflammatory
rhetoric against Kim Jong-un and his regime,
in order to bring all parties back to the
negotiating table.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And, Joanna, could you, very
quickly—you’ve been writing about this.
The human rights situation in China now under
President Xi Jinping?
JOANNA CHIU: Well, it’s quite severe under
Xi Jinping’s first five years as president.
We have seen an unprecedented crackdown on
people in civil society, from lawyers to bloggers
to journalists to primary school teachers.
It’s ironic that Trump is tweeting while
he’s inside China’s firewall, but people
in China have been arrested just for social
media posts they put on Chinese websites that
are a little bit critical of their government.
And recently, just this week, on Tuesday,
a really famous veteran pro-democracy writer,
Yang Tongyan, he passed away of brain cancer
on medical parole.
So he was still in police custody.
And this is the pattern that we’ve been
seeing, that dissidents are being jailed and
then—
AMY GOODMAN: Joanna Chiu, speaking to us from
Beijing, China.
We just lost her satellite, lost it at the
bottom of the hour, China correspondent for
Agence France-Presse.
Rajan Menon’s still with us, professor of
political science at Powell School at City
University of New York.
If you could continue what she was saying,
this issue of human rights in China right
now?
It’s very interesting that here is President
Trump lauding President Xi in China while
at the same time the Trump administration
has just cracked down on Cuba and made it
extremely difficult for individuals to visit
Cuba, reversing the thaw in relations that
President Obama had initiated.
RAJAN MENON: There is a very big contrast
between the tone and the demeanor that Trump
struck in South Korea and in Japan compared
to China.
He clearly does not want to do anything at
all to embarrass Mr. Xi.
He did not meet with dissidents.
He didn’t bring up the issue of human rights.
He soft-pedaled, as you noted, as you noted
earlier, the trade deficit.
And so, I would say, from the Chinese standpoint,
this summit has gone very well for them.
Less so, I think, for Mr. Trump.
AMY GOODMAN: And the significance of President
Trump going to Vietnam tomorrow?
And if they work out the framework—I think
that’s the terms they’re using—he will
be meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir
Putin, in Vietnam.
RAJAN MENON: Correct.
Well—
AMY GOODMAN: And the role Vietnam—Russia
could also play with North Korea?
RAJAN MENON: Correct.
The Russians can play a role, but much less
of a role than China.
As I pointed out, 96 percent of the trade
that North Korea does is with China.
But the Russians do have a residual influence.
But much more importantly, Russian and Chinese
views are closely aligned.
But it is to China that he’s looking.
AMY GOODMAN: Finally, the significance, from
your perspective, of this trip that President
Trump has made?
I mean, we know that when President Xi was
in Florida, he made a deal with Trump’s
daughter, with one of his advisers, Ivanka
Trump, giving her exclusive copyrights on
various of her products being sold in China.
The significance of any kind of business deals
being made?
We know Trump famously, yesterday, in the
middle of his address to the South Korean
Assembly, where he was talking about taking
on North Korea—and, of course, the threat
of war with North Korea is more extreme than
it’s ever been—he talked about his golf
course in Bedminster, New Jersey.
RAJAN MENON: There are business ties between
the Trump Corporation and the Chinese.
You mentioned Ivanka Trump.
The Trump Corporation itself has about 123
trademarks.
There is a building in New York, of which
Mr. Trump is part owner, where the Chinese
National Bank has lent about $950 million.
So there are such ties.
I think that those are not the things that
are driving Trump.
I think he wants some progress on the trade
front.
He wants some progress on the North Korean
front.
He’s gotten, really, not very much of either.
AMY GOODMAN: Is there anything you’d like
to add, Professor Menon, on the significance
of this overall Asia trip that he’s taking?
RAJAN MENON: Yes.
One of the things that was interesting to
me is that he was much tougher on the Japanese
when it came to the trade deficit.
Now, their trade deficit with the United States
at the end of last year was about $70 billion.
With China, it was $350 [billion].
That is five times as much.
Yet he treated the China pretty much, as you
pointed out, with kid gloves.
He was much tougher on the Japanese.
He told the Japanese, “Why do you just import
cars into the United States?
Why don’t you just make them here?”
Well, the Japanese make 4 million units of
vehicles here, and they have about 24 manufacturing
plants.
So the contrast between how he—
AMY GOODMAN: In the United States.
RAJAN MENON: Correct.
So the contrast between how he dealt with
the Japanese on the trade issue and the Chinese,
I thought, was very telling.
AMY GOODMAN: Also selling billions of dollars
of weapons on this trip.
RAJAN MENON: Correct, correct.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you for
being with us, Rajan Menon, professor of political
science at the Powell School at the City University
of New York, senior research fellow at the
Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies
at Columbia university.
When we come back, a humanitarian crisis in
Yemen—cholera, famine, war.
We’ll speak with a woman who founded a news
agency there but had to leave because of death
threats and now reports in exile about her
home country.
And we’ll talk about what’s happening
in Saudi Arabia, as the prince consolidates
power, as many people are arrested, and Saudi
Arabia continues to bomb, with U.S. support,
Yemen.
Stay with us.
