AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: We turn now to look at America’s
staggering opioid epidemic, the secretive
family making billions from the crisis, and
how Congress undermined efforts to restrict
the flow of pain pills that have led to tens
of thousands of deaths.
President Trump’s Commission on Combating
Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis has said,
quote, “America is enduring a death toll
equal to September 11th every three weeks.”
But this week, his nominee for drug czar,
Republican Congressmember Tom Marino, had
to withdraw from consideration, after a Washington
Post/60 Minutes investigation found he led
a drug industry-backed effort to pass a law
that weakened the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration’s
ability to crack down on addictive opioids
and keep them off the black market.
The Ensuring Patient Access and Effective
Drug Enforcement Act passed in 2016.
It made it nearly impossible for the Drug
Enforcement Administration to intervene in
cases where large, suspicious shipments of
opioids are delivered to pharmacies bound
for the black market.
The drug industry lobbied heavily to win passage
of the bill, contributing $1.5 million to
its 23 congressional co-sponsors.
Marino alone accepted nearly $100,000 in campaign
cash from the industry.
This is Joe Rannazzisi, who ran the DEA’s
Office of Diversion Control, which regulates
and investigates the pharmaceutical industry,
speaking to 60 Minutes about the measure.
JOE RANNAZZISI: If I was going to write a
book about how to harm the United States with
pharmaceuticals, the only thing I could think
of that would immediately harm is to take
the authority away from the investigative
agency that is trying to enforce the Controlled
Substances Act and the regulations implemented
under the act.
And that’s what this bill did.
BILL WHITAKER: The bill, introduced in the
House by Pennsylvania Congressman Tom Marino
and Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee,
was promoted as a way to ensure that patients
had access to the pain medication they needed.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressman Marino has said he’s
proud of his work on the 2016 law, which passed
without opposition in the House and Senate,
was signed by President Obama.
Meanwhile, calls are growing to look at the
major pharmaceutical companies who fueled
the opioid crisis.
A new investigation by Esquire magazine reveals
how the Sackler family, owners of the company
that invented OxyContin, downplayed the risks
of the drug’s addiction and exploited doctors’
confusion over the drug’s strength.
The piece in Esquire is headlined “The Secretive
Family Making Billions from the Opioid Crisis.”
It begins, “You’re aware America is under
siege, fighting an opioid crisis that has
exploded into a public-health emergency.
You’ve heard of OxyContin, the pain medication
to which countless patients have become addicted.
But do you know that the company that makes
Oxy and reaps the billions of dollars in profits
it generates is owned by one family?”
For more, we’re joined by Christopher Glazek,
the reporter behind the investigation.
Christopher, welcome to Democracy Now!
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Thank you.
AMY GOODMAN: So, the name Sackler is famous
in the art world, because it’s hard to go
into a museum where you don’t see an atrium
named, whether we’re talking about the museum—the
Metropolitan Museum, the Tate in London—I
mean, all over.
Why don’t you explain how we know the name,
and how we don’t know the name when it comes
to OxyContin, and how significant OxyContin
is when it comes to the opioid epidemic?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yeah, well, the Sackler
family is very interesting, because, in some
ways, it’s extremely public, and then, in
other ways, it’s extremely private.
So, you’ll see their name on university
campuses.
Almost every Ivy League school has an institute
or a museum named for the Sacklers.
As you mentioned, there’s—
AMY GOODMAN: Like where, in universities?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Oh, like at Yale, at Tufts,
at Columbia, at NYU, at Cornell, at King’s
College London, at Edinburgh, at Sussex.
I mean, the list really goes on and on and
on.
And in the museum world, too.
I mean, there’s named rooms or wings for
the Sacklers at the Guggenheim, at the Louvre,
at the Tate, at the Met.
You know, so people know the Sackler name.
But the Sacklers themselves are rarely interviewed.
They basically never give interviews.
They’re rarely seen in public.
And almost nobody in the world, in the art
world or in the world of higher education,
understands that the major source of their
fortune is OxyContin.
And one reason for that is that the Sacklers
never put their name on their company, never
put their name on their product.
So, you know, as you mentioned, I mean, the
reason I wanted to do the piece, we have an
opioid crisis in this country, and more than
200,000 people have died from prescription
drugs since OxyContin was released in 1996,
and w have an accountability crisis also.
You know, we tend to think of big social problems,
like drug epidemics, as the product of these
large, impersonal forces that are hard to
understand.
And there’s some truth to that.
But that can also distract from the fact that
a lot of social problems also have their origins
in actions taken by individuals.
So, that was something I wanted to shine a
light on.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, how did you learn, come
to learn, of the Sacklers’ involvement in
this?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Well, it’s very interesting.
So, you know, I had read quite a bit about
Purdue Pharma, which had manufactured OxyContin
and which, in 2007, had to plead guilty to
criminal charges for what was called criminally
misbranding a prescription drug.
And they had to pay a huge fine, and three
of their top executives went down.
And there had been a ton of writing about
that, but almost no writing about the fact
that the company was actually 100 percent
owned by one family, and that family filled
more than half of the board seats and actually
supplied top executives for the company.
You know, one thing that kind of emerged is
that when they signed onto this huge settlement,
which got a ton of press in 2007, it seemed
like the top leaders of the company took the
fall, because the CEO at the time had to plead
guilty to a misdemeanor.
But he wasn’t the CEO during the period
covered by the settlement or during the crucial
period of OxyContin’s promotion and marketing.
During that period, the top executive was
actually a member of the Sackler family who
owned the company.
And yet the Sackler name appeared nowhere
in the guilty plea.
It was like a hundred pages.
It appeared all over this other document that
was attached, which was a nonprosecution agreement.
And so, basically, the government said, “We’re
not going to prosecute any of these 200 entities
related to the Sackler family.”
AMY GOODMAN: So, Christopher Glazek, tell
us the story of the Sackler family, their
rise, the rise of OxyContin.
Go back decades.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Sure.
So, the Sacklers were basically three brothers
from Brooklyn who were—came from a Jewish
immigrant family.
And they got their start, really—I mean,
the eldest brother, Arthur Sackler—in medical
advertising.
So he was a really important pioneer in the
field of medical, and specifically pharmaceutical,
advertising.
He was one of the first people ever inducted
into the Medical Advertising Hall of Fame,
actually.
So, basically, when he came on the scene in
the '40s, there really wasn't much pharmaceutical
advertising.
There were these door-to-door salesmen.
They were called “detail men,” and they
would basically try to push their drugs on
doctors.
What Arthur realized is that you could use
print advertising to reach a much larger number
of doctors more efficiently.
And he was actually the first person to convince
the Journal of American Medicine to insert
a color brochure advertising a particular
drug, which, at that time, was an antibiotic—and
then actually got involved in this big scandal
about overprescription of antibiotics, you
know, another public health problem.
His big, huge first influx of cash came with
Valium, because he was the one who designed
the marketing campaign for Roche, which was
the manufacturer, and he made Valium the most
widely prescribed drug in America.
AMY GOODMAN: What was his trick there?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: So the trick, basically,
was that, you know, Valium—there was another
drug that had already been on the market that
was the same as Valium.
It was called Librium.
I mean, almost indistinguishable.
And so it was like this big question: Well,
how are we going to market this one?
Librium had been marketed pretty narrowly
for a specific anxiety function.
His idea was to take Valium, a new drug with
a new name, and market it for every kind of
problem.
And so he kind of—they played with this
concept called “psychic tension,” which
was purported to be the source of indigestion,
of depression, of sleep problems, of restless
leg syndrome.
And so—
AMY GOODMAN: It was the word before “stress.”
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yes, right.
It was kind of like what we now think of maybe
as stress.
You know, so he was, in this way, able to
vastly expand the range of potential patients
and indications, and, in that way, made the
first $100 million drug.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And what kind of use did Valium
have versus Librium?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: So, I mean, it was used
by people who were suffering kind of what
are called “somatic problems,” so different
kind of physical manifestations which may
or may not have their root in something related
to anxiety.
Valium was just narrowly targeted—or, sorry,
Librium was narrowly targeted to people who
had like a specific kind of anxiety issue,
which at that time was not quite the thing
that it is today.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So Valium was prescribed much,
much more than Librium—
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yes.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: —or Librium.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yeah, way, way, way more.
And it became, actually, the most prescribed
medication of all time, you know, at that
time.
AMY GOODMAN: And so, move on from there.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Right.
So, Arthur also became a huge art collector,
kind of established the family’s foothold
in the art world.
And throughout his entire life, he had actually
passed on jobs and businesses to his younger
brothers.
So he was involved in the purchase of this
really tiny pharmaceutical company in 1952
which was called Purdue Pharma, which was
on its last legs.
It had basically been a kind of patent medicine
peddler.
It had this drink called Gray’s Glycerin
Tonic, which was—you know, in the patent
medicine era, it was also marketed for all
kinds of purposes—if you have a headache,
if you have sex problems, if you have whatever
problem.
So, they bought this kind of shell, financially
troubled shell.
And for years and years, Purdue Pharma didn’t
really—wasn’t a major player in the pharmaceutical
world.
It had one really good product, which was
Betadine, which it acquired in the ’60s,
which was a disinfectant.
And they kind of had this great fortune of
acquiring the rights to Betadine just as the
Vietnam War was amping up.
So the government had bought huge quantities
of Betadine to treat wounded soldiers.
But still, you know, a midget in the pharma
scene.
Then they got into the pain business, and
that’s when the real money started flowing
in.
And they developed—you know, so the kind
of company lore is that there was a doctor
in London—because some of the family members
moved to London—and who was associated with
the hospice movement.
And they said, “You have a time-release
asthma pill that isn’t really selling very
much.
What if you made a time-release morphine pill?”
And they said, “You know, we have these
hospice patients who have these IVs, and it’s
hard to give them enough pain medication to
sleep through the night.”
And so, he said, you know, “A time-release
morphine pill could really be transformational.”
So they made this, and it came out in the
United States in 1984 as MS-Contint, which
is kind of the predecessor of OxyContin.
And it was targeted exclusively at the cancer
market.
And really, it was an amazing drug.
It helped cancer patients sleep through the
night without needing to redose.
And, you know, addiction didn’t matter if
you’re a terminal cancer patient.
There was a problem with MS-Contin: Its patent
was going to expire in the '90s, and the company
didn't have anything to replace, and that
was really the company’s, you know, golden
goose.
So, basically, younger relatives of Arthur’s
at the company, other executives at the company
were brainstorming: What can we do about MS-Contin
having its patent expire?
And they said, “Well, what if we created
a new time-release pain pill, but we don’t
use morphine, we use another derivative of
the poppy plant, oxycodone, and we create
a time-release oxycodone pill, and instead
of marketing it to cancer patients, we market
it to 30 million back pain patients, we market
it to people with menstrual problems, we market
it to people with toothaches?
So, what if we take this powerful drug that
we know works for this one purpose, but then
kind of give it to everybody?”
And that was the billion-dollar idea, the
$14 billion idea, that gave the Sacklers what
is likely the largest fortune in pharmaceutical
history.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, one of the problems
with the term—I mean, I realized, myself,
when I was reading your piece, that there’s
a lot of confusion between oxycodeine, oxycodone
and the OxyContin.
So, could you explain what that distinction
is and whether the name itself was chosen
so that precisely this confusion could be
created?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Exactly.
So, you know, I talked to employees at the
company, you know, and there’s some reference
to this also in some internal company documents.
OxyContin and MS-Contin—one’s morphine,
one’s oxycodone—they’re basically the
same.
They’re kind of—like Librium and Valium,
they’re virtually indistinguishable.
But morphine had a stigma, which is that people
thought if you’re on morphine, that means
you’re dying.
And ordinary doctors, general practitioners,
family practitioners, they weren’t going
to prescribe morphine.
Like that sounded like some really serious
stuff.
Oxycodone, though, had a very different brand,
because it was in Percocet and Percodan.
And so, thousands of doctors, you know, ordinary
doctors, general practitioners, would prescribe
Percocet for injuries.
And so they were familiar with it, and they
were comfortable with it.
But Percocet has a very small dose of oxycodone
in it.
As you allude to, there was another confusion:
People thought that “oxycodone” sounded
like “codeine.”
And codeine is another weak opioid.
Doesn’t sound like morphine.
Morphine sounds strong.
So, they were basically playing on this misconception
that doctors had, and they acknowledged this
when they had to plead guilty, that doctors
thought that oxycodone was weak, even though
it’s actually more powerful than morphine.
AMY GOODMAN: So let’s turn to a joint investigation
between 60 Minutes and The Washington Post
on the opioid crisis.
This is Joe Rannazzisi, who ran the DEA’s
Office of Diversion Control, which regulates
and investigates the pharmaceutical industry,
speaking with CBS correspondent Bill Whitaker.
JOE RANNAZZISI: That’s out of control.
What they want to do is do what they want
to do and not worry about what the law is.
And if they don’t follow the law in drug
supply, people die.
That’s just it.
People die.
… This is an industry that allowed millions
and millions of drugs to go into bad pharmacies
and doctors’ offices, that distributed them
out to people who had no legitimate need for
those drugs.
BILL WHITAKER: Who are these distributors?
JOE RANNAZZISI: The three largest distributors
are Cardinal Health, McKesson and AmerisourceBergen.
They control probably 85 or 90 percent of
the drugs going downstream.
BILL WHITAKER: You know the implication of
what you’re saying, that these big companies
knew that they were pumping drugs into American
communities that were killing people.
JOE RANNAZZISI: That’s not an implication,
that’s a fact.
That’s exactly what they did.
AMY GOODMAN: Whistleblower Joe Rannazzisi,
speaking with CBS correspondent Bill Whitaker.
In another part of the interview, he talks
about pain clinics.
JOE RANNAZZISI: Pain clinics, overnight, popping
up off an entrance ramp or an exit ramp on
an interstate.
Then, all of a sudden, there’s a pain clinic
there.
BILL WHITAKER: Had you ever seen anything
like that before?
JOE RANNAZZISI: Never.
In fact, it was my opinion that this made
the whole crack epidemic look like nothing.
These weren’t kids slinging crack on the
corner.
These were professionals who were doing it.
They were just drug dealers in lab coats.
BILL WHITAKER: You know what a chilling picture
that paints?
JOE RANNAZZISI: I do, because I watched them
get arrested, and I was the one who approved
the cases.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that is Joe Rannazzisi, who
ran the Drug Enforcement Administration, the
DEA’s Office of Diversion Control, which
regulates and investigates the pharmaceutical
industry, speaking with CBS correspondent
Bill Whitaker.
Of course, he became a whistleblower.
Christopher Glazek, talk about the significance
of what this man said.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Well, you know, the opioid
epidemic has many different actors in different
parts of the chain.
And this investigation focused on the distributors,
who are basically the people who carry the
opioid pills from the manufacturer and give
it to specific pharmacies.
And there’s been a lot of litigation focused
on them.
Some thought that, you know, they knew, that
they had had reason to know, that certain
pharmacies maybe were involved in diversion.
And they have this ongoing struggle with the
DEA about what’s appropriate to seize and
under what circumstances.
In my view, what you want to do when you look
at the opioid crisis is look at where the
real profits are.
And it’s actually not with the distributors.
It’s really with the manufacturers.
And, you know, people kind of think they’re
following the money.
And McKesson and Cardinal are these huge,
giant companies.
But you really want to follow the margin,
because that’s going to tell you who’s
controlling a market and who’s kind of like
a minor toll taker.
And the fact is that the manufacturer, Purdue
Pharma, which really created this market,
created all this business for Cardinal and
McKesson, etc., they had much more detailed
information about where pills were going.
They knew down to the prescription level,
you know, what doctors were prescribing what.
The distributors didn’t know that.
The distributors—all distributors knew was
about pharmacies.
So they really are just one part of this giant
chain.
But Purdue had the aerial vision of the entire
thing.
And they—
AMY GOODMAN: Where is Purdue based?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: It’s based in Stamford,
Connecticut.
AMY GOODMAN: Mm-hmm.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yeah.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, one of the things that
you point out in the piece is that part of
the money, the money that the Sacklers made
from Purdue and selling OxyContin, in a foundation
they have called the Richard and Beth Sackler
Foundation—could you talk about where they
chose to donate some of that, the money from
that foundation?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: For sure.
You know, we live in a billionaire democracy,
and billionaires exert tremendous control
not only over business, but also over the
arts and higher education and over politics.
And, you know, different members of the Sackler
family have very different political leanings.
Richard Sackler, who was the top executive
during the time that OxyContin was mainly
promoted, has given money to a variety of
anti-Muslim groups.
He’s actually given money to several groups
designated hate groups by the Southern Poverty
Law Center.
He’s also given money to this organization
called True the Vote, which was the original
source for Trump’s claim that 3 million
illegal immigrants voted in the election.
You know, if you go what appears to be his
Facebook page or his YouTube page, he seems
to have some affection for Geert Wilders in
the Netherlands and kind of Brexit types,
so a lot of kind of—he also seems to be
a gold bug, very concerned about inflation
and things like that.
Other members of the Sackler family are not
right-leaning.
Some are them are quite left-leaning, actually.
But Richard’s foundation, you know, and
the money that came from OxyContin has gone
to a number of causes that raise some eyebrows.
AMY GOODMAN: So, what is happening with OxyContin
now?
Talk about the number of deaths a day.
Talk about the bill that passed last year
and was signed off on by the president—not
by President Trump, but by President Obama—that
now has led to Congressman Marino, who was
the choice to be the drug czar, having to
withdraw, under Trump.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Right.
So, basically, what that legislation did is
it hampered the ability of the DEA to seize
suspicious shipments.
And, you know, I actually—it’s quite a
complex issue.
Whether it really is the most important aspect
of the opioid crisis is something that one
could debate.
It does seem pretty galling, though, that
Trump nominated Marino, who was so involved
in this legislation, to be the drug czar.
Like you don’t want the fox guarding the
chicken coop.
So, that did seem pretty outrageous, and it’s
a great thing that that has been exposed and
brought to light.
But the key point about the opioid crisis
is that what triggers addiction—you know,
people talk a lot about diversion, the black
market, drug dealers.
That’s part of it.
It’s kind of a small part.
Most people become addicted to OxyContin by
just taking it as prescribed.
So, really, it’s the number of prescriptions,
who is driving the prescriptions, and the
total volume of opioid that’s circulating
through the market.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, one of the—you cite
a piece, an L.A. Times investigative piece,
which concludes that the American market for
OxyContin is actually diminishing.
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yes.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So could you explain why that
is, and then how this drug is now being marketed,
quite successfully, abroad?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Yes, exactly.
So, you know, OxyContin has run into a lot
of regulatory problems in the United States
and a lot of bad press.
And, you know, kind of borrowing from the
Big Tobacco playbook, it’s like when you
run into problems in your home market and
you’ve got all these lawsuits, maybe it’s
time now to go abroad.
And that seems to be what the Sackler family
is doing.
They have all these international companies
that are related to Purdue which sell pain
products abroad.
And, you know, the CDC, in this country, actually
issued this warning last year, basically saying
that we’re not sure that opioids are good
for long-term pain at all, that maybe opioid
use is not an effective treatment for chronic
pain, because it changes your pain threshold
and, over time, it becomes less and less effective.
So, I mean, this was like a really—you know,
a kind of death blow for the chronic pain
market here.
But now you have the company going abroad,
kind of reprising all of its greatest hits
from the ’90s.
They released a study in Colombia saying that
we believe that more than 40 percent of the
population suffers from chronic pain.
AMY GOODMAN: In May, a dozen members of Congress
sent a bipartisan letter to the World Health
Organization that warned the Sackler-owned
drug companies were preparing to flood foreign
countries with legal narcotics.
The letter mentions the Sacklers by name,
notes they own Purdue Pharma, and reads, quote,
“Purdue began the opioid crisis that has
devastated American communities.
… Today, Mundipharma is using many of the
same deceptive and reckless practices to sell
OxyContin abroad.”
Mundipharma, owned by the Sacklers.
And the L.A. Times reporting the company circulated
a press release in Colombia that suggested
47 percent of the population suffered from
chronic pain.
Your final comment on all of this, Christopher
Glazek, and where it goes now?
CHRISTOPHER GLAZEK: Well, the big question
is complicity, and it’s a really tricky
question.
You know, is Tufts University complicit in
the opioid epidemic because they’ve taken
huge amounts of money from the Sacklers?
You know, is a third-generation Sackler heir,
who maybe is a documentary filmmaker or restaurateur—do
they have some burden or complicity to address
here?
And I think that’s a complicated question.
But the solution to complexity is not secrecy.
And what we’ve seen again and again is that
people who have taken Sackler money, and the
Sacklers themselves, have concealed their
connection to OxyContin.
And that cannot be the solution to the problem.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to leave it there,
Christopher Glazek, journalist, editor, whose
new exposé was just published in Esquire—we
will link to it—”The Secretive Family
Making Billions from the Opioid Crisis.”
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we go across the pond to
London to talk about what’s happening south
of us in Guantánamo.
Stay with us.
