AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show in Puerto Rico, where,
six weeks after Hurricane Maria devastated
the island, millions of residents are still
living without safe drinking water and electricity.
Health experts say the storm’s massive damage
to Puerto Rico’s water system is threatening
to cause a public health crisis, as more and
more people are exposed to contaminated water.
On Thursday, the White House finally agreed
to release FEMA disaster aid with more flexibility
to try to help rebuild Puerto Rico’s devastated
power grid and other infrastructure.
The shift in aid disbursement was necessary
because of Puerto Rico’s massive debt crisis,
which both severely limits the island’s
ability to prepare for the storm ahead of
time and to respond fully in the days afterward.
According to an investigation by Puerto Rico’s
Center for Investigative Journalism, quote,
“The permanent disaster [of Maria] has been
largely due to the slow and inefficient deployment
of the emergency response due to a fatal combination
between the lack of liquidity of the government
of Puerto Rico and its municipalities and
the federal government’s inaction,” unquote.
For the last year, Puerto Rico has been controlled
by an unelected fiscal control board, imposed
by the U.S. Congress, whose role is to enact
austerity measures to ensure the bondholders
of Puerto Rico’s debt are repaid.
Well, over the weekend, Democracy Now!
was in Puerto Rico.
We traveled around three hours into Puerto
Rico’s mountainous highland region in the
interior of the island in order to look at
the ways austerity has exacerbated the crisis
caused by Hurricane Maria.
We begin our journey in a town called Lares,
about two hours west of the capital San Juan.
I began there by asking Democracy Now!’s
Juan Carlos Dávila, who grew up in Puerto
Rico, to tell us about the history of this
town called Lares.
JUAN CARLOS DÁVILA: So, the motto of this
town is “Lares, Ciudad del Grito,” which
translates to “Lares, City of the Scream.”
That is in reference to the revolution of
1868 here in the town of Lares, where Puerto
Rican revolutionaries gathered to overthrow
the Spanish forces from here and declare the
Puerto Rican independence.
The colonial administration, that continues
to administer the colony, are saying that
the motto is too subversive, that “Ciudad
del Grito” is too subversive, so they have
tried things like “Lares, City of the Beautiful
Women” or “Lares, City of the Open Skies,”
so that to, in a way, try to erase the history
of Lares.
AMY GOODMAN: Let’s go over to the street
of Pedro Albizu Campos.
JUAN CARLOS DÁVILA: Pedro Albizu Campos is
a revolutionary leader of Puerto Rico, who
was president of the Nationalist Party, a
Harvard graduate.
And he—
AMY GOODMAN: I think he was the first graduate—Puerto
Rican graduate of Harvard Law School.
JUAN CARLOS DÁVILA: So, yeah, Pedro Albizu
Campos is a very important figure in Puerto
Rico.
He stood for the independence of Puerto Rico.
He fought valiantly against United States
imperialism.
So, here, the important thing about Pedro
Albizu Campos being here in Lares, and his
street here in Lares, is that he represents
the continuation of that struggle of the revolutionaries
fighting against the Spanish forces.
And for that, he was in jail, and he was tortured.
And many believe he—
AMY GOODMAN: He was in prison for decades.
JUAN CARLOS DÁVILA: Yeah, he was in prison
for many years.
And he was—and it is believed that he was
tortured, and they experimented with radiation
on him.
AMY GOODMAN: In Lares, we meet up with Martin
Cobian, a professor at the University of Puerto
Rico and a member of the Center for Transdisciplinary
Studies in Agroecology.
We head about an hour further into the mountains,
to a region called Las Marías.
MARTIN COBIAN: Hurricane Maria, you know,
devastated, very much so, the highlands.
But in a very—from another perspective,
it also uncovered what was already a national
crisis.
Remember that we’ve been under austerity
measures for—I don’t know how long.
I mean, it’s, you know, as far as I can
remember.
It feels like we’ve been under austerity
forever.
And one of the areas most, you know, hardest
hit has been—have been 
the highlands, not only in the terms of, you
know, the type of economies that municipal
money used to bring, in terms of employment
and so on and services that people used to
have access to, and they’ve lost them, but
also in terms of just people leaving, migrating,
because, you know, it’s just untenable to
sustain a livelihood.
So that is, for example, in Las Marías, where
is the place that we’re going now, are two
of the most—I think they’re one and two
or within the five poorest municipalities
in Puerto Rico and also the ones that have
lost most population over the last five to
10 years.
AMY GOODMAN: So, in a sense, Maria not only
exposed the fault lines and the weakness of
the situation here, but it exploded those
fault lines.
MARTIN COBIAN: Yes, that’s exactly it.
AMY GOODMAN: As we’re driving through the
mountains, we reach a part of the road where
the hurricane has swept away the earth below
the pavement, which is something we had to
be very careful about everywhere we drove.
We talked to a man whose house itself was
precariously balanced between the road and
what is now a cliff, the earth swept away
below.
RESIDENT: [translated] Yeah, it’s the main
road.
If you want to go to Marical, you can take
it.
You can cross it now, but it’s dangerous.
And if it stays like this, the road will fall
off the precipice.
AMY GOODMAN: We keep driving with Martin.
MARTIN COBIAN: One of the main, if not the
sole, income for most of this area is agriculture.
And most of the agriculture in Puerto Rico
has been, you know, destroyed or has been—you
know, sustained heavy damage.
So this is a big concern, because the type
of agriculture that you find here is a lot
of—a lot of it is coffee production.
And, you know, for coffee to grow, you you
need—it needs at least three to four years
before you start producing.
So you had a lot of trees that were adults
and that were producing, and they were sustaining,
you know, a small—from large to small peasant
economies.
And that has been destroyed.
The devastation is immense.
It’s immense.
I have a lot of friends, small peasant farmers,
that—you know, they lost everything.
And many of them are actually thinking of
quitting and moving to the city or actually
migrating.
AMY GOODMAN: We’ve just arrived in Las Marías,
and we are coming to a place where doctors
are coming to meet with people, bringing water.
We passed an oasis, an oasis, where people
gathered to get fresh water.
And now we’re going down to the field, where
the doctors are.
What kind of doctor are you?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: A general practitioner.
AMY GOODMAN: Uh-huh.
And your full name?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Jose A. Ramirez.
AMY GOODMAN: And your name?
DR.
STEVEN ROMAN: Steven Roman, and I am internal
medicine.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you tell us what you were
doing today?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Well, today, we came here.
We’ve been doing clinics since the hurricane.
Every Saturday, we’ve been doing clinics.
AMY GOODMAN: What are people’s major complaints?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Their medicine.
They are unable to get their insulins, are
unable to see their doctors, and pains and
so and so, you know.
DR.
STEVEN ROMAN: Hypertension.
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Hypertension, diabetes and stuff
like that.
Right now we’re doing the statistics on
how many deaths we had, during and after Hurricane
Maria.
We had—I know we had one gentleman who died
of a heart attack in his car, and another
one after the hurricane with a landslide.
Mudslide came and took his machine—he was
working on trying to clear roads—and it
buried him.
Other than that, we got a problem with oxygen,
problem with home care and stuff like that,
and the oxygen and all the stuff.
DR.
STEVEN ROMAN: And I went to that—the people
need to know that in Puerto Rico, there are
more than 50 cases of leptospirosis, that
are death patient, that no survive.
AMY GOODMAN: People die as a result of leptospirosis.
DR.
STEVEN ROMAN: Yes, die.
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: And it arose from bacteria from
the urine, mice urine.
People eat the food without cleaning and washing
it or anything.
And they’ll eat that, and they’ll get
sick from it.
And usually the outcome is really bad.
AMY GOODMAN: How would you say the state,
FEMA—how would you rate how they responded?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Compared to George a couple
years back, they’ve been a lot—they’ve
been slow.
It’s been slow.
Politics in the States, you know, have been
affecting us here in Puerto Rico.
You know, there’s a lot of—a lot of misgivings
and stuff like that.
We haven’t been receiving the help as soon
as we needed it.
AMY GOODMAN: What did you make of President
Trump saying that the people of Puerto Rico
want everything done for them?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Well, the first thing, it’s
not people of Puerto Rico, it’s U.S. citizens.
We are U.S. citizens.
That’s the first thing.
It’s not people of Puerto Rico.
It’s U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico.
They want help.
AMY GOODMAN: Would you say their treatment
of you during Hurricane Maria and after was
the treatment of a colony?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Yes.
Yes, it was.
We are not—Florida, look at Florida.
Look at—
DR.
STEVEN ROMAN: Texas.
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Look at Texas.
You know, they got treated really quick.
They took him to—in the states, and to throw
paper towels out.
They should have flown him in a helicopter
to see how it was around here.
AMY GOODMAN: You’re saying that President
Trump threw rolls of paper towels.
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Yes, yes, yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think if you voted for
president of the United States, the president
of the United States would treat you differently?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Yes, because it’s 3.5 million
people, and we all have at least two in the
Senate, and we have at least five representatives.
Five.
And that’s a big vote, you know.
And the thing is, the parties don’t see
us—you know, they don’t see.
And we could affect the parties in the states,
too.
Right now, you have 70,000 people who left
to Florida.
Most of them do vote.
Most of them do like politics.
Most of them will vote.
And that will change the politics of Florida
in a couple years to come.
AMY GOODMAN: Did you hear about bodies being
incinerated in the morgues and those bodies
not being counted?
And did that happen around here?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Well, the thing is, I certified
around eight here in town.
Eight.
So it was 50, 40-something deaths.
I certified eight after Hurricane Maria.
Two of them were during the hurricane or after,
the day after the hurricane.
And the other ones were after, a couple days
after, a week or so after the hurricane.
I heard that—that’s why they ask for statistics.
I’m writing the statistics down in case
when they come back to ask for it, so I can
give it to them.
AMY GOODMAN: So eight people have died since
the hurricane.
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: That I certified.
That I certified.
AMY GOODMAN: Can there be others?
Are there other doctors?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Yes, there’s probably a lot
more.
AMY GOODMAN: Did the Jones Act being enforced,
in the time the waiver wasn’t in place,
prevent, for example, medicines from getting
in?
DR.
JOSE RAMIREZ: Right now, insulin is—you
know, my patients tell me it’s really difficult
for them to get insulin.
See, the thing is, if the United States doesn’t
help us stimulate our economy right now, you
know—I mean, we’re afraid.
They might sell us, you know, like—there
was a joke a couple years back that they wanted
to give Greece to the United States, and give
us to the European Union.
You know, and this is kind of a—you know,
it makes you think what the United States
thinks about us, you know?
You know, are we just a colony, what we are?
Do they want to help us or what?
You know.
AMY GOODMAN: After we leave Dr. Jose Ramirez
at the pop-up health clinic in Las Marías,
we head to another neighborhood nearby, where
residents are gathering to wait for a delivery
of aid.
Along the way, we come across a caravan of
more than a hundred volunteers, all church
members, who are traveling across the island
distributing food and water.
PEBBLES MORALES: My name is Pebbles Morales.
MARCO RIVERA: Marco Rivera.
PEBBLES MORALES: He’s the pastor, Marco
Rivera.
Well, we come directly from the food bank.
We’re going all around different cities
from the country, where we see that there’s
like special needs and stuff.
And we’re distributing food.
That’s what we’re doing.
AMY GOODMAN: What place was in the most need
that you have been in?
PEBBLES MORALES: Right now, like I think it’s
pretty equal, like in every part we’ve been
through.
MARCO RIVERA: Fajardo, Luquillo, Ceiba
PEBBLES MORALES: Fajardo, Luquillo, Ceiba.
MARCO RIVERA: San Juan.
PEBBLES MORALES: San Juan.
MARCO RIVERA: Manatí, Vega Baja, Vega Alta,
Morovis, Ciales, Adjuntas, toda la isla.
PEBBLES MORALES: All those cities, yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: The whole island.
PEBBLES MORALES: All around.
AMY GOODMAN: We continue driving with University
of Puerto Rico professor Martin Cobian.
MARTIN COBIAN: Something that we have seen
in Puerto Rico is that the communities have
had to organize to survive, you know, in the
middle of Maria and all the havoc that has
been created.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER: [translated] We’re
asking for calm this afternoon, knowing that
they’re coming from really far away and
don’t really know the route, but they are
going to arrive.
They are going to arrive.
AMY GOODMAN: We arrive at the community gathering
where hundreds of people, mainly women and
children, are waiting for supplies to arrive.
ROSA ROSADO: [translated] My name is Rosa
Rosado.
We’re here in the neighborhood of Bucarabones
in Las Marías, in a small community called
La Josefa.
We’re gathered together in a group of families,
and we’re waiting, because we still don’t
have any electricity.
We have to take advantage of these moments.
Whenever they’re going to bring us things,
whatever they are, we have to take advantage
of it.
We’ve seen that when we want our leaders
to pay attention to us—because we feel a
little isolated—sometimes we have to demand
their attention.
My daughter’s school, La Hosto, is a shelter
now, and I don’t think that the school will
reopen soon.
For a school bus, the streets and highways
are terrible.
They’re horrible.
So, as a parent, I wouldn’t dare send her.
No, no.
That said, I understand that the children
need psychological support.
It’s true.
They need something to orient them, because
young people have never experienced anything
like this before.
There are many children in this community.
My daughter is 13 years old, and she needs
help, because she’s in special education.
CARMEN VEGA: [translated] My name is Carmen
Vega.
Everything here was destroyed.
It’s not easy to be struggling like this,
washing everything and doing everything by
hand.
There are sick children, sick elders.
That’s how it is here.
In terms of health, the worst was that my
father vanished.
He died.
So that hasn’t been easy for us.
But we’re alive.
We have to thank God that we are alive.
ROSITA RUIZ: [translated] My name is Rosita
Ruiz.
I want to say hello to my son, who lives in
Philadelphia.
I don’t know if this will reach there.
My son, Eliomar Justiniano, I’ve only been
able to communicate with him twice since the
hurricane, but I send him greetings from here.
I want to tell him that I love him.
He knows the situation that’s happening
here, and he’s worried.
But thank God, we’ve been blessed throughout
all of this, because he saved our lives, and
my home wasn’t damaged.
But emotionally, although we haven’t suffered
physically, this affects us emotionally and
mentally.
Because my husband now is taking care of me
and he’s disabled also, in my condition
and with my husband being disabled, because
he has a disability, he understands that he
has to take care of all the work at home.
It hasn’t been easy.
Understand this: It affects us emotionally,
because we’re alone.
Our children are not with us.
I have one son in Philadelphia and another
in Mayagüez.
We’re depending only on this neighborhood
where we live.
We don’t have any other family.
The only support is from the church and our
neighbors, our friends.
We are all extending our hands to each other.
In other words, we’re all helping each other,
because we are all suffering the same.
And honestly, we’re thankful to God that
we can help each other.
ANTHONY JUSTINIANO: [translated] My name is
Anthony Justiniano, and I’m Rosita Ruiz’s
husband.
A lot of people have been affected by the
storm, and they’ve had to leave for many
different reasons.
One is that they’ve lost their jobs.
Another is that, although there’s some aid—it
does arrive—when it arrives, people sometimes
need things urgently to survive.
Education is on hold.
The children have not been able to return
to their schools because of the transportation
issues.
It’s not as easy to travel as it was before
the hurricane came.
But we’re still fighting.
If they could bring some form of psychological
help, so people could strengthen themselves
during all this—even though we’re serving
God, we have internal emotions that affect
us as human beings, because we’re all human
beings, and we need psychological support
to help us and strengthen us to face all this.
It’s really important.
ANTONIA FELICIANO: [translated] My name is
Antonia Feliciano.
I live in 44-09 in a section called Pariachi.
Since I moved there, there’s been no electricity.
I’ve been living there for 28 years.
My husband died recently, waiting for the
light, waiting for the light, and it never
arrived.
The thing is, I live far from the community,
because the section in which I live, Pariachi,
is two kilometers away from Bucarabones, where
we are now.
This stretch has never had electricity.
It was in the mayor’s hands, and he kept
telling us that they were going to put in
electricity, but it never arrived.
I am an elderly person.
I’m 75 years old.
And I use insulin and medicine that needs
to be refrigerated.
So, whenever my neighbor has electricity,
I put my medicines in his home.
ELBA IRIS DUMONT: [translated] We’ve been
waiting here since 1 p.m., waiting, and now
it’s 4:25 in the afternoon.
We’re waiting for them to bring us food,
water, everything, because in this moment,
anything that they bring us would be good.
The hurricane was horrible.
My house is on the side of the road, and the
part of the road that leads to my house collapsed.
When I go home, I feel so depressed, and I
cry, because the road has collapsed.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER: [translated] And we will
be grateful that when they arrive, for all
of us to please get in order, as you know
how to do.
We’re asking for calm, OK?
They need the cooperation of each and every
one of us.
So, then—not now, but then—we will form
a line.
AMY GOODMAN: It’s now been six weeks since
Hurricane Maria, the worst storm to hit Puerto
Rico in 90 years.
Millions still lack clean water and electricity.
Special thanks to Sam Alcoff, Laura Gottesdiener,
Juan Carlos Dávila and Denis Moynihan.
When we come back, we look at the president’s
tax plan.
He says it’s a Christmas gift for the American
people.
Others say it’s a gift for America’s elite.
We’ll look at how the world’s elite benefits
from global capitalism, with former Greek
Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis, joining
us in our studio.
His new book, Adults in the Room: My Battle
with the European and American Deep Establishment.
Stay with us.
