AMY GOODMAN: “Come Ye” by Nina Simone.
Nina Simone was inducted into the Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame this weekend, 15 years after
she died.
AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: We turn now to an environmental
activist and young black mother in Detroit
who may be forced to give birth behind bars,
after standing her ground during a frightening
encounter.
Since she was 19 years old, Siwatu-Salama
Ra has fought for environmental justice.
She campaigned against the Marathon oil refinery
and the Detroit Renewable Power trash incinerator.
She represented Detroit at the Paris climate
summit.
She’s also worked to engage kids and educate
young mothers about nutrition.
Now, at age 26, she has been sentenced to
a mandatory two years in prison, following
an incident in which she brandished her unloaded—and
legally registered—handgun while defending
her mother and 2-year-old daughter.
AMY GOODMAN: In this video provided by her
support team, Siwatu and her mother describe
the verbal dispute between Siwatu and a neighbor.
They say the neighbor confronted Siwatu, ramming
Siwatu’s car, which at the time contained
Siwatu’s toddler, with her own car.
Fearing for her, her child and her mother’s
lives, Siwatu brandished a gun—she is a
licensed concealed gun owner—hoping to prevent
the neighbor from running them over.
The weapon was not loaded.
SIWATU-SALAMA RA: She had come to our house
upset, very upset, very angry.
She started yelling at me, screaming at me,
cursing at me.
In the midst of this, I’m asking this woman
to leave, right?
I’m asking her to leave, just go, you know,
and she wouldn’t.
And so the next thing that she did was ram
her car into my car.
Plus, my baby was in the car.
She was in the car playing.
That shocked fear in me, and I jumped and
got my baby out of the car.
So, she’s literally going back and forth
with this car, putting it in reverse and fixing
herself to come at us again and go after my
mom.
My mother, who was also standing very close
to me, wasn’t able to run.
RHONDA ANDERSON: She’s using her car as
a weapon.
When I could not move, that’s when I was
the most frightened.
She was so close to hitting me that I can
feel the car on my clothes.
SIWATU-SALAMA RA: That’s when I made the
decision to reach for my firearm, that was
unloaded, with no bullets.
I was afraid.
And I told her, “You have to leave now.”
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Even though no shots were
fired and no one was harmed in the incident,
Siwatu was convicted of one count of felonious
assault and given a mandatory 2-year minimum
sentence.
She is now fighting to be released before
the birth of her second child in June.
SIWATU-SALAMA RA: Something that we’re fighting
against is the way the world views what black
fear looks like.
I think that if I was somebody else, maybe,
just maybe, they would have identified with
when I said I was afraid.
My name is Siwatu-Salama Ra.
I’m a mother.
I’m an organizer.
I’m a daughter.
I’m a wife.
I have dedicated my life to serving others,
my entire life.
And so, I’m not thinking of myself when
I heard that verdict.
I could do it.
But I thought of my children.
That’s the pain, to have my first son and
to not be with him for the first two years.
Let me have this baby on the outside with
my family, with my community.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, for more, we go to Detroit,
where we’re joined by attorney Victoria
Burton-Harris, who’s seeking Siwatu’s
release during the appeal of her case.
Also in Detroit is Amy Doukoure.
She is a staff attorney for the Michigan chapter
of CAIR.
That’s the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
Today she’s filing a civil rights lawsuit
over how Siwatu has been treated in prison.
And in Los Angeles we’re joined by Patrisse
Khan-Cullors, co-founder of Black Lives Matter,
founder of Dignity and Power Now and a fellow
at MomsRising.
She was one of the first to call attention
to the case in a story for The Grio headlined
“Black Lives Matter co-founder seeks justice
for pregnant mom incarcerated by Stand Your
Ground law.”
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Let’s begin with Victoria Burton-Harris.
Lay out what happened.
I think a lot of people are scratching their
heads right now.
Talk about the day that the last incident
took place and what transpired next.
How did the Detroit police get involved?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: Thank you for having
me.
This tragic story, it started on a Sunday
evening in July in Detroit at Siwatu’s family
home, where her mother, sister, brother and
nieces resided.
Siwatu and her mother were sitting on the
front porch when the complaining witness dropped
her daughter off.
And her daughter attended school with Siwatu’s
niece.
They were the same age.
Prior to this Sunday evening in July, the
two teen girls, Siwatu’s niece and the complaining
witness’s daughter, they attended school
together, and there was testimony at trial
that the complaining witness’s daughter
beat up Siwatu’s niece in the girls’ bathroom.
And so, after that incident, the family naturally
said, “This young lady is not a friend of
yours.”
And so, when her mother dropped her off at
the house, Siwatu and her mother sat on the
front porch and looked each other, very puzzled
and confused, and wondered why this young
woman was just at their home, why was she
just dropped off here.
So, Siwatu went inside the house, asked her
niece if her mother knew that this young lady
was at the house visiting.
Siwatu called her sister herself and found
out from her sister that there was no permission
given for this young lady to be at the family
home that day visiting, and therefore Siwatu
informed the young lady that she needed to
call her mother to come back and pick her
up.
The young lady protested.
She did not want to go home.
Siwatu’s niece protested, as well.
She didn’t want this young lady to go home.
Apparently these two teen girls had patched
up their issues, as children do.
However, the family didn’t think it was
appropriate for this young lady to be there.
And so, the mother arrived about 10 minutes
later to pick the child up.
She was very upset, irate even.
She pulled back up to Siwatu’s family’s
home.
She started yelling, using profanity.
She was very angry.
She started demanding answers.
“Why can’t my child be here?
These girls have made up.
Your niece has come to my home over the last
two weeks.
I don’t understand.”
And she testified at trial that she thought
she had a right to be on that property and
to demand answers as to why her child was
not welcome there.
And that’s where this incident started.
Siwatu asked this woman to go.
She had had her—her child had gotten in
the car.
So there was no reason for this woman to still
be on the property or in front of that house.
And the woman refused to leave.
After Siwatu asked her to leave multiple times,
the woman became even more upset.
She wasn’t getting answers to the questions
that she had, and so she decided at some point
to escalate the situation and drive her car
into Siwatu’s parked car on the street in
front of the house.
And inside that parked car was Siwatu’s
2-year-old daughter.
She was in the driver’s seat behind the
steering wheel playing with the wheel—the
car was off—and doing what children sometimes
do on the summer days.
And so, when this woman rammed her car into
the driver side door of Siwatu’s car, Siwatu’s
tone completely changed.
It went from, you know, “Bye.
Leave.
Please leave,” to “Oh, my god!
You’re crazy!
What’s wrong with you?”
She retrieved her child, passed her child
to someone else so that she could be safe.
And she again went back to, you know, “You
have to leave.
Please leave.
Go.”
By this point, Siwatu’s mom had come off
the front porch, and she was again asking—or
she also was asking this woman to leave.
“Please, just go.”
Mom was attempting to de-escalate the situation.
The woman then decided she was going to attack
Siwatu’s mom, and started using her car,
as Siwatu’s mom testified at trial, as a
battering ram, and started going forward and
then reversing, going forward and then reversing,
and she almost hit Siwatu’s mom.
At that moment that she almost hit Siwatu’s
mom, Siwatu became even more afraid.
And that’s when she went to her parked car,
retrieved her firearm and pointed it in the
direction of this woman and said, “You need
to leave.”
The woman still did not leave.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Now, let me ask you—at some
point, clearly, the woman then went to the
police department, and this is clearly a dispute
that escalated into really dangerous territory.
The key thing here is: What was the response
of the police department?
Did they interview all of the people involved
to find out who was in the right or who was
in the wrong?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: I really wish that
they would have.
Siwatu, after she pointed this firearm at
the complaining witness and her daughter,
the complaining witness snapped three photographs
and said, “Oh, you’re a CPL holder.
I have something for you.”
She snapped the three photographs and immediately
drove to the nearest police station, and she
gave a false report.
In this report, she did not mention that she
attempted to hit Siwatu’s mother.
In this report, she neglected to mention that
she even hit Siwatu’s car, which she later
admitted to doing in a subsequent police report.
The police listed this complaining witness
and her daughter as the victims in this case,
victim one and victim two.
And Siwatu was noted as the aggressor.
Siwatu made—
AMY GOODMAN: After having interviewed them
both?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: No.
So, Siwatu made a police report a few hours
after the complaining witness and her daughter.
And my this moment, or by this time, she has
already been deemed the aggressor.
And it was testified at trial by the investigating
officer, the officer in charge, that their
practice is, when a report is made and someone
is noted as the aggressor, they are not allowed
to speak to that person.
There is no interview that is had with that
aggressor.
So, when Siwatu made a police report, she
was never considered a victim.
Her police report went nowhere, because it
was made second.
She was already, by the time she made her
police report, again, deemed to be the aggressor.
So no one followed up with Siwatu.
No one did an interview with Siwatu.
Siwatu was not called back to the station
two weeks after she made her report, like
the complaining witness and her daughter were,
to give a written statement.
Siwatu had one opportunity to provide her
version of the events, and that was when she
made her report a few hours after this mother
and child.
And the next thing that she knew, she was
being contacted by the police, not for an
interview and follow-up, an investigation,
but because SWAT was outside of her home to
arrest her.
AMY GOODMAN: Two weeks later?
Was this two weeks later?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: This was a few weeks
later, yes.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’d like to bring in Patrisse
Khan-Cullors, a co-founder of Black Lives
Matter.
Your response, why you felt this was so important?
And to your knowledge, has the NRA stepped
in to defend Siwatu because she stood her
ground?
PATRISSE KHAN-CULLORS: You know, when I heard
about this case, the first thing I felt was
an immense amount of grief.
I was thinking about what this young black
woman was feeling like, sitting in a jail
cell, pregnant.
She hadn’t been convicted yet.
And I felt like it was incredibly important
that Black Lives Matter get behind this issue.
We’ve seen this time and time again—black
women not to be seen as victims, but end up
inside jails, end up inside prisons, end up
pregnant, being shackled.
At this point, Siwatu has had to endure so
much, has had to face so much.
And this woman, who clearly was out of order,
out of line, who is clearly racist, gets to
be free.
Once again we’re seeing this.
And so, the work of Black Lives Matter has
been to really uplift the story and follow
the lead of folks in Detroit.
But this was an incredibly important opportunity
for us to talk about how black women are criminalized.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you fear, Patrisse Khan-Cullors,
that if she gives birth in jail in June, that
she will give birth in shackles?
PATRISSE KHAN-CULLORS: She will.
She’s been shackled several times, at doctor’s
visits, shackled so badly that she can’t
feel her—her legs go numb.
This practice of shackling has been stopped
in some states, but obviously not all.
And so, yes, she will be shackled while giving
birth, unfortunately.
And it’s devastating for any person who’s
pregnant and giving birth to have to go through
anything but the labor, anything extraneous
outside of the labor.
So, to be shackled is just disturbing and
barbaric.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Amy Doukoure of the Council
on American-Islamic Relations, why has your
organization gotten involved?
And what is the nature of the civil rights
lawsuit you’re filing?
AMY DOUKOURE: Sure.
So, Siwatu is a practicing Muslim woman.
And since she’s been in jail, she hasn’t
been accommodated for her religion.
She requested a hijab, or a traditional Islamic
head covering, so that she could make her
five daily prayers.
However, as of today, she still hasn’t received
the head covering that she needs to pray.
She also has not been given food accommodations.
And some of the food that’s served at the
prison has pork product in it.
And as Muslims, we can’t eat pork products.
So she’s had to abstain from eating meals
at times, and protein, while she’s six,
seven months pregnant, resulting in weight
loss to her, because the prison just has not
accommodated her religion appropriately.
AMY GOODMAN: If you could to talk—
AMY DOUKOURE: So, we’re—
AMY GOODMAN: So, what are you asking for,
Amy?
AMY DOUKOURE: What we’re really asking for
is we’re asking for the Michigan Department
of Corrections to follow the policy directives
that they already have in place.
There are policy directives that require them
to provide religious meal accommodations for
people that are being housed in their facilities,
to allow them to have appropriate materials
necessary for the reasonable practice of their
religion, including, for Muslim women, a headscarf,
a prayer rug and a Qur’an.
And these policies are already in place for
a reason.
They’re just, in this case, not following
them.
AMY GOODMAN: Victoria Burton-Harris, Siwatu
was convicted.
Can you explain what happened in the trial?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: Well, to a certain
point.
As you all know, Siwatu had a jury trial,
and a jury of her peers decided the facts
of this case.
And they do so in seclusion in a jury room,
and we are not allowed to go in that room
while they’re deliberating.
And this particular jury did not want to speak
with the defense attorneys after they rendered
their verdict.
So, we’ll never really know how they decided
the facts of this case and how this verdict
was reached.
But I can tell you that we spent five days
trying this case over two weeks.
When we initially started picking a jury,
which jury selection lasted about two days—or
it took place over the span of two days—the
jury pool was told that this was going to
be a two-day trial.
The jury pool that we had, a lot of them were
unable to sit for jury duty and were unable
to be selected, simply because even a two-day
trial posed a hardship to some of those folks.
We had one juror in particular who needed
to drive her Uber in order to provide proper
income or adequate income to pay her bills.
And so, that’s important to note, because
it did not take two days.
It took five days to try this case.
And so, I believe that that fact alone was
considered in their deliberations.
During the trial, there was very little evidence
other than the testimony that was provided.
We told the jury that this is not a trial
that you would see on television.
There was no fingerprint evidence.
There was no DNA evidence.
There was simply the word of this complaining
witness and her daughter versus the word of
my client and her mother and her niece.
There were civilian officers who testified—each
officer who took the report from my client
and from the complaining witness.
Any officer in charge testified.
So—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Victoria—
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: So—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Victoria Burton-Harris, we
have just less than a minute, but we wanted
to get your response to the issue of why you
want her out by June and the situation with
her pregnancy.
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: Prison is no place
for a pregnant woman.
It’s hard enough to carry a child, to carry
a child full term.
And Siwatu did not carry her first child to
term.
She had an early pregnancy, or she had an
early delivery date with her first child.
She had serious complications with that pregnancy.
And she’s currently showing signs and symptoms
of the same complications now with the second
pregnancy.
And so, we are working diligently to get her
released on an appeal bond, so that she can
deliver her child safely at home.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Victoria, we just have 15
seconds, and I want to ask—the jury was
not told that she faced a mandatory minimum
of two years in jail.
The judge had no leeway here.
Is that right?
VICTORIA BURTON-HARRIS: That’s absolutely
correct.
There was actually a jury instruction read
to the jury that said you are not to consider
the penalty for the charges, that, you know,
that is for me to decide.
And that’s actually not true.
Most of the time, the judges have the discretion.
But with mandatory sentences, they do not.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we want to thank you all
very much for being with us—Michael Brune,
head of the Sierra Club, has also called for
the release of Siwatu—Victoria Burton-Harris,
Siwatu’s lawyer, Amy Doukoure of CAIR, the
Council on American-Islamic Relations, and
Patrisse Khan-Cullors, co-founder of Black
Lives Matter.
We’ll link to your piece, Patrisse, also
a fellow at MomsRising.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
I’ll be speaking in Lincoln, Nebraska, Friday
night.
