AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González, as
we talk about the latest news right now.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, those allegations were
not being made against disgraced—
SUMMER ZERVOS: [He repeated my words back
to me]—”Get real”—as he began thrusting
his genitals.
He tried to kiss me again, with my hand still
on his chest.
And I said, “Dude, you’re tripping right
now,” attempting to make it clear I was
not interested.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Those allegations were not
being made against disgraced Hollywood movie
mogul Harvey Weinstein, but against now-President
Donald Trump.
That is Celebrity Apprentice contestant Summer
Zervos describing her 2007 encounter with
Trump in which she says Trump kissed her on
the lips, pressed his body against hers and
groped her breasts, all without her consent.
Zervos was among a series of women who accused
Trump of sexual assault during the 2016 presidential
campaign.
Trump, in return, called her and the other
women liars.
She has now subpoenaed Trump’s presidential
campaign for all documents relating to her
and any other women who have accused Trump
of unwanted sexual contact.
On Monday, Trump was asked about the subpoena
at an impromptu White House news conference.
This is his response.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: All I can say is it’s
totally fake news.
It’s just fake.
It’s fake.
It’s made-up stuff.
And it’s disgraceful, what happens.
But that happens in the—that happens in
the world of politics.
John?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Meanwhile, in New York City,
police detectives are probing two credible
allegations of sexual assault against Hollywood
movie mogul Harvey Weinstein.
The allegations are separate from a 2015 case
brought against Weinstein after an NYPD sting
operation caught him on tape confessing he
groped Italian model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez.
At the time, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus
Vance Jr. declined to prosecute the case against
Weinstein.
One of Weinstein’s lawyers at the time donated
$10,000 to Vance’s election campaign only
days after the district attorney dropped the
case.
The New York City charges come as Scotland
Yard is investigating five sexual assault
charges by three women in Britain.
More than 40 women now, including some of
Hollywood’s biggest stars, have come forward
with allegations of rape, sexual assault or
sexual harassment against Weinstein.
Weinstein’s legal team is continuing to
fall apart after learning the extent of the
allegations against their former client.
This includes entertainment lawyer Charles
Harder, who threatened to sue The New York
Times for their report on Weinstein’s history
of sexual harassment.
Harder has a history of taking on the media,
and successfully filed a $140 million lawsuit
against Gawker on behalf of Hulk Hogan that
led to the outlet’s bankruptcy.
Harder is the third lawyer to leave Weinstein,
following Lisa Bloom and Lanny Davis.
Bloom told Good Morning America that not only
was Weinstein’s behavior illegal, but that,
quote, “there was misconduct for a period
of years,” end of quote.
One lawyer to join Weinstein’s team is one
of Hollywood’s biggest criminal attorneys,
Blair Berk, who has represented actors like
Mel Gibson.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, last week’s report that
Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein was also
a sexual predator has reignited a dialogue
on sexual assault in many ways.
And one of them became a trending topic on
Twitter this weekend, when women began posting
messages on social media to show how commonplace
such misconduct is, by using the hashtag #MeToo.
A flurry of messages appeared Sunday on Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram, after the actress Alyssa
Milano shared a post in which she revealed
she had been sexually violated and included
a screenshot of the idea that, quote, “If
all the women who have been sexually harassed
or assaulted wrote 'Me too.'
as a status we might give people a sense of
the magnitude of the problem.”
Milano then wrote, quote, “If you’ve been
sexually harassed or assaulted write 'me too'
as a reply to this tweet.”
While many reports suggested Milano began
the “Me Too” movement, she didn’t.
It was actually started about a decade ago
by our next guest, the activist Tarana Burke.
She says she began “Me Too” as a grassroots
movement to aid sexual assault survivors in
underprivileged communities, where rape crisis
centers and sexual assault workers weren’t
going.
Tarana Burke is now a program director at
Girls for Gender Equity.
In Washington, D.C., we’re joined by Soraya
Chemaly, who’s a journalist who covers the
intersection of gender and politics, director
of the Women’s Media Center Speech Project.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
We’re going to begin right now with the
woman who started “Me Too” in 2007.
Tarana, talk about how this has taken off
and why you started it back in 2007.
What I want to say is, Alyssa never claimed
she started it.
TARANA BURKE: No, right.
AMY GOODMAN: It’s the rest of the media—
TARANA BURKE: Right, right.
AMY GOODMAN: —that is talking about her
starting it.
TARANA BURKE: Right.
And it makes sense to me, right?
Because that’s how media works.
I have been working with young people for
more than 25 years.
And I worked in the South in 2007.
And as a survivor of sexual violence myself,
as a person who was struggling trying to figure
out what healing looked like for me, I also
saw young people, and particularly young women
of color, in the community I worked with,
struggling with the same issues and trying
to find a succinct way to show empathy.
Right?
We use a term called “empowerment through
empathy.”
And “Me Too” is so powerful, because somebody
had said it to me—right?—and it changed
the trajectory of my healing process once
I heard that.
And so, because the rape crisis centers in
the community I was working didn’t go out
to the schools, they didn’t do outreach,
and I’m an organizer by training, it made
sense to me that you have to bring—you know,
you have to bring it to people.
People are not going to seek it out.
And so, “Me Too” was about reaching the
places that other people wouldn’t go, bringing
messages and words and encouragement to survivors
of sexual violence where other people wouldn’t
be talking about it.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And your response now that
we’ve had—it’s almost a succession of
one big name after another being accused of
sexual assault—Bill Cosby, Roger Ailes,
Bill O’Reilly, Donald Trump and now Harvey
Weinstein?
TARANA BURKE: R. Kelly, yeah.
No, it’s not a surprise, right?
And I think that—you know, I say all the
time, I’m never surprised at these allegations.
For every R. Kelly or Bill Cosby or Harvey
Weinstein, there’s, you know, the owner
of the grocery store, the coach, the teacher,
the neighbor, who are doing the same things.
But we don’t pay attention until it’s
a big name.
And we don’t pay attention 'til it's a big
celebrity.
But this work is ongoing, because this is
pervasive.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to bring Soraya Chemaly
into this conversation, of the Women’s Media
Center Speech Project.
Talk about this latest—these revelations,
these rolling revelations, against Harvey
Weinstein, because of The New York Times exposé,
followed by The New Yorker exposé.
The New Yorker exposé is only there because
the author went to NBC, Ronan Farrow, and
he worked on it with them for months, and
then they killed it, which is leading to,
to say the least, enormous questions within
NBC—what was their connections to Weinstein?—putting
a lot of pressure on the president of NBC.
Talk about this, when this will even be reported,
and the level of the women who have to make
the charges for this to get this kind of attention,
these A-list stars.
SORAYA CHEMALY: I think this is a very good
example of the way overlapping systems of
fraternity work to silence stories like these.
We know that it takes a tremendous outpouring
of, really, trauma from women, working together
in a campaign like “Me Too,” to make people
sit up and pay attention.
But what we’re really talking about is making
people believe what women are talking about,
because we have a very deep-seated distrust
of what women say.
And when women say it, it’s very easy to
dismiss and trivialize.
And part of that process of stereotypes and
myth making comes directly from media.
And media frames questions, decides which
questions to ask, how to report, what language
to use, and also whose voice matters and whose
experience matters.
So, in an instance like this, we see very
clearly that a person with extreme power and
status in one industry was probably leveraging
that power and status across industries, able
to tap people possibly in the criminal justice
system, people in the media system.
And again, this, I think, is really common.
It’s not rare.
It’s just that we’re seeing it at a very
high level.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And could you talk about this
in the context of a president, in a presidency
which itself, Donald Trump, has been repeatedly
accused of sexual harassment?
SORAYA CHEMALY: So, I think that what was
most interesting in the wake of the Trump
tape that was released a year ago was the
difference in responses between men and women
to what happened.
And we saw a huge gap in understanding and
empathy, honestly, during the debate that
followed immediately after that tape was released.
The tape was released, and millions of women
were traumatized and shared stories with the
#NotOK hashtag, very much like they did now.
But when the debate happened in the immediate
wake of that, there was a large-scale analysis
done by Facebook of what people were talking
about, what was important to them, and it
involved looking at millions of comments and
posts from around the world, but especially,
I believe, in the United States.
And it showed that, for women, what Trump
was saying and what it represented was a priority.
It was either number one or two on the list
of top five.
But, for men, it didn’t make the list at
all.
And I think that’s important, because our
media systems and our legal systems and our
political systems are still overwhelmingly
dominated by men, overwhelmingly white men.
So we’re talking about 80 percent-plus in
almost all of those arenas, certainly of senior
management.
And that experiential difference, which is
transformative in terms of producing knowledge,
like really understanding what’s going on,
is missing in these institutions.
And so it takes this immense amount of energy
to just try and get institutions to recognize
the harm that’s being done by dismissing
and trivializing experiences of sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment, if you even think about
the term, is a term that reflects the perspective
of harassers.
Women who are being harassed, men who are
being harassed, this isn’t a sexual experience
for them.
It’s an experience of fear and threat and
violence.
It’s very intimidating.
There’s always retaliation involved.
So, even the perspective of the framing of
the language reflects the problems that we
face.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to bring Alicia Garza
into the conversation, co-founder of Black
Lives Matter, special projects director for
National Domestic Workers Alliance, speaking
to us from Los Angeles.
Your experience that every—about everything
that has just been unfolding, now going from
the charges, the allegations against Harvey
Weinstein to, you know, both Scotland Yard
and the New York Police Department investigating
him criminally, and then the massive response
to Tarana’s “Me Too” movement, that
started really 10 years ago but now picking
up steam like we’ve never seen before?
ALICIA GARZA: Well, I first have to just say
a deep thank you to Tarana for creating this
space for survivors like myself.
Without that space, I wouldn’t be able to
tell my story, and thousands and thousands
of other people that I know would not be able
to tell their stories.
And you and I share someone in common, who
you are a mentor to, and when she reached
out to me yesterday and said, you know, “My
mentor Tarana started this, and I want to
make sure that black women’s work is not
erased,” I had to—I had to agree.
My thoughts about this are that—exactly
what Tarana said earlier, that this kind of
violence is as American as apple pie.
I am both heartbroken by all of the stories
that I have seen being shared—there’s
more stories being shared every day.
And lots of people that I know, that I’m
in community with, and people that I don’t
know, are asking themselves, “What do we
do about this epidemic of violence—violence
against women, violence against women color,
violence against black women, queer people,
trans people?
And even, what do we do about violence against
men?”
Right?
Cis men, trans men.
This kind of patriarchal violence really functions
off of shame and silence.
And it’s not lost on me that every single
person who told their story about Harvey Weinstein
talked about how they were silenced, how they
were encouraged not to speak up, how they
were embarrassed or ashamed to speak up.
And so the power of this movement of “Me
Too,” this power of empathy, this power
of connection, is really about empowering
people to be survivors, to be resilient, and
also to make really visible that sexual violence
is not about people’s individual actions,
that this is a systemic problem that then
requires different types of responses to deal
with how systemic this problem actually is.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’d like to ask Tarana,
as the founder of this movement: Where do
you think it needs to go, from here on?
TARANA BURKE: So, the movement, the work that
I’m doing and this movement is really about
survivors talking to survivors, right?
“Me Too” is about letting—using the
power of empathy to stomp out shame.
And so, we need to keep talking about it,
right?
It doesn’t need to be—I mean, I appreciate
the hashtag, and I appreciate the hashtag
elevating the conversation, but it’s not
a hashtag, right?
It’s not a moment.
This is a movement.
The reason why people didn’t know my name
is because people don’t think about this
unless there is something big happening.
So what needs to happen is that we need to
stop just, you know, popping up when somebody
famous does something.
And we need to really look at the numbers,
look at the people, look at the survivors
and think strategically.
I think like an organizer.
This is an epidemic, pandemic even, right?
If you applied the numbers around sexual violence
to any communicable disease, the World Health
Organization would shut it down.
There would be all kind of, you know, experiment
and research around it.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think a vaccine could
be developed against it?
TARANA BURKE: Oh, god, imagine, right?
If we could stomp it out with just “Get
your polio vaccine, and stop sexual violence.”
But in actuality, it is that pervasive.
And so, we need to stop thinking about it
in spurts, and think about it as something
that we need to constantly work on.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you all
for being with us.
Tarana Burke, thank you so much, founder of
the “Me Too” campaign; Soraya Chemaly
with the Women’s Media Speech Project in
Washington; and Alicia Garza, co-founder of
Black Lives Matter.
This is Democracy Now!
Juan will be speaking today in Teaneck, New
Jersey.
Check our website.
And on Wednesday at Rutgers.
