AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: We turn now to Puerto Rico,
where Governor Ricardo Roselló announced
on Sunday that he was instructing Puerto Rico’s
Electrical Power Authority, known as PREPA,
to cancel its controversial $300 million contract
with the tiny Montana-based company Whitefish
Energy.
The governor’s move came after enormous
pressure and scrutiny of the contract to reconstruct
Puerto Rico’s electrical power grid devastated
by Hurricane Maria.
Whitefish Energy is based in the tiny hometown
of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
The head of the private equity company that
backs Whitefish, Joe Colonnetta, was a Trump
campaign donor.
Meanwhile, Whitefish CEO Andrew Techmanski
argues his company’s ability to mobilize
quickly was vital to winning the contract.
AMY GOODMAN: All of this comes as a leaked
copy of the no-bid contract sparked even further
outrage last week, when it was revealed that
the terms barred penalties for work delays
and prohibited the project from being audited
by any U.S. government agency.
Well, Democracy Now!
went down to Puerto Rico over the weekend,
and I got a chance to sit down yesterday,
on Sunday, with the head of UTIER, the Puerto
Rico electrical workers’ union, Ángel Figueroa
Jaramillo.
We sat down in his office just as Governor
Roselló was speaking.
I began by asking him what he thought of the
governor’s announcement that he will be
canceling the contract, that he’s calling
for the cancellation of the contract with
Whitefish Energy.
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] What
the government has just informed the country
is that he’s asking the governing board
of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority
to invoke the cancellation clause in the contract.
We understand that this decision by the governor
is in the face of the major questions that
have been raised and the doubts that are circulating
as to whether FEMA is going to be able to
reimburse the money.
And given the possibility that FEMA has distanced
itself from reimbursing the money, and given
the invoicing of $11 million, the governor
is calling for the contract to be canceled.
Nonetheless, in this process, he has not called
for the resignation of engineer Ricardo Ramos,
which is fundamental.
He is the one who has defended this contract.
He does not talk about continuing to investigate
this whole process, and, above all else, does
not talk about cooperating in any federal
investigation that might be undertaken into
the Whitefish contract.
AMY GOODMAN: In the contract, which is just
something like 50-odd pages for this $300
million deal, it says that they can’t be
held to any timetable and they cannot be audited
by any U.S. agency.
Now, this is a company whose largest deal,
I think, was something like $1.3 million to
build 4.8 miles of transmission lines in Arizona.
That was its largest deal.
You’re talking about 2,400 miles of transmission
lines here in Puerto Rico.
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Precisely.
That was the first question that was raised.
This was a company without experience.
And its only experience is in places totally
different from Puerto Rico.
And to grant a contract for $300 million was
to deposit a lot of money, deposit a lot of
work, in a totally inexperienced company.
But most particular in this process are the
conditions of the contract.
How is it possible that you can have a contract
that can’t be audited, that can’t be called
into question, where the contract says that
it is complying with federal regulations when
it isn’t, and still, to this date, Whitefish
continues to be in contract, and no one has
moved away from that contract?
We need to call into question the people who
brought about this contract, and to call into
question the participation of FEMA, if FEMA
had any involvement.
Today, FEMA says, “I had nothing to do with
the contract.”
Everyone is moving away from this contract.
I think that this contract must have been
seen and reviewed by many people other than
Ricardo Ramos.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you believe FEMA had a role
in this?
They say they didn’t look at the contract,
it’s PREPA’s fault.
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] It’s
interesting, FEMA’s response, when it found
out about the scandal.
As long as Whitefish was being called into
question, while the government of Puerto Rico
was telling the country that FEMA was going
to reimburse the money, FEMA didn’t react.
It’s only now that the Congress of the United
States, that the media in the United States
and worldwide has called into question this
contract.
FEMA only reacted on Friday, saying it had
nothing to do with the contract.
So we need to call into question the silence,
why there was so much silence for such a long
time.
AMY GOODMAN: Ryan Zinke’s son, the interior
secretary, worked for Whitefish, not to mention
Whitefish is Ryan Zinke’s hometown.
Do you think Ryan Zinke should be investigated?
How did this contract happen?
And have you met with Andrew Techmanski, who’s
running the show here, all of the Whitefish
workers that they’re importing?
Not that there are that many right now.
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Here,
everything needs to be investigated.
Whitefish didn’t just come to Puerto Rico
by accident, a very small company from Montana
that no one knew about, coming into Puerto
Rico with a $300 million contract.
There must have been some connection to be
able to come to Puerto Rico.
It just—it wasn’t in the internet.
There wasn’t a classified ad.
Somebody must have called Puerto Rico for
them.
Whitefish has ties with companies in Brazil.
Ricardo Ramos worked in Odebrecht, the Brazilian
company.
That’s another angle that needs to be investigated,
the Brazilian company in this process.
AMY GOODMAN: What is the name of the Brazilian
company?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] We
still don’t know the name of the Brazilian
company.
This is a report by the environment news in
the United States.
It noted that this company was financing Whitefish
for two years.
When we saw that news, we drew the relationship
with Odebrecht, which was a Brazilian company
that has been pointed out by the U.S. Department
of Justice as the most corrupt company in
Latin America.
And the Dominican Republic is the country
where there was most corruption.
Nonetheless, by chance, Ricardo Ramos worked
with Odebrecht in the Dominican Republic.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think Ricardo Ramos, the
head of PREPA, who signed this $300 million
contract, should be fired?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Clearly.
And not only that, I believe that a much deeper
investigation needs to be carried out in Puerto
Rico.
There is an element that has always come about
in these kinds of situations, which is impunity.
Nothing happens.
The money is stolen, and then nothing happens.
I believe that this is the time to make sure
that these contracts don’t happen again,
to take this to the ultimate consequences.
And if people need to be put in prison, the
local and federal officials who may have been
involved in this Whitefish process need to
be put in prison, as well.
AMY GOODMAN: What is it like for Puerto Rican
workers to be working alongside of workers
from the continental United States who are,
apparently, reportedly, being paid much more
to do the same job?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Not
only the same job.
The ones who really know the Puerto Rican
electrical system are us.
They’ve worked much more slowly, with much
more difficulty on the work assigned to them,
compared to us.
Seeing that big difference, looking at Puerto
Rico’s topography, its geography, the complexity
of our electrical system, one sees that this
is a big scandal.
When some workers are being paid $200 an hour
to do the same work that we do for $21 an
hour, there’s a difference there.
One notes how poorly paid we are, but also
it shows just how much corruption there is
around Whitefish.
AMY GOODMAN: If the public power union, if
the workers, if PREPA got this money to rebuild
Puerto Rico’s power grid, what could you
do with it, $300 million?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] With
much less than that amount.
Indeed, with the help of workers from companies
in the United States who have experience with
international assistance; Mexico, the Mexican
electrical workers’ union has made themselves
available, workers who are experts on the
lines.
With a lot of help, we’d be able to rebuild
the country with much less money than has
been given to Whitefish.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to ask you about Elon
Musk and solar power.
There’s a lot being made in the United States,
continental United States, in the corporate
media about his offer saying that Puerto Rico
could be the experiment, the model for the
rest of the country, for solar power.
This goes to two issues.
One is, the entire grid is down: How do you
rebuild it in a more sustainable way?
And does solar have to mean privatization?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] First,
the complexity of the electrical system of
Puerto Rico, it’s a totally isolated system.
A system with a large amount of demand poses
a major challenge in terms of looking at the
possibility of solar power for powering the
whole country.
It’s very complex.
It requires many studies, a lot of analysis,
many evaluations.
And the people of Puerto Rico can’t wait
for all of that right now.
Now, that doesn’t mean that Puerto Rico
doesn’t have to look very seriously at the
possibility of the transformation towards
solar power.
Nonetheless, the transformation that UTIER
believes is most appropriate is—are solar
communities.
The communities themselves should appropriate
that system.
It’s not that we will become a commodity
for renewable solar energy companies.
AMY GOODMAN: And now you have a member of
the fiscal control board, former Air Force
Colonel Noel Zamot, reportedly about to be
imposed as an emergency manager over PREPA.
Can you talk about the significance of this
and who he is?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] First,
the UTIER—I want to be clear on this—doesn’t
support the fiscal control board and obviously
doesn’t support this appointment.
And I want to make that clear to all the media.
Nonetheless, the law allows the fiscal control
board to make an appointment such as this
choice in extraordinary circumstances.
That means this appointment is being made
because there are irregularities in control
of Whitefish, the contract, and they are concerned
that they’re not going to be able to satisfy
the creditors.
I agree.
I don’t—I mean, right, I don’t agree
with the appointment.
Zamot, well, his appointment will be a major
challenge.
He doesn’t know anything about the electrical
industry, has no expertise in this area.
And so we are struck by Zamot’s appointment
to be an overseer of the PREPA.
AMY GOODMAN: So you had, what, over 6,000
workers in 2000, and now you’re down to
3,500.
It’s almost halved.
Do you believe that—and this goes before
the fiscal control board—that there are
efforts being made simply to destroy the largest
public power authority in the United States
so that it is sold off, privatized?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Yes,
clearly.
The UTIER has been denouncing this plan, talking
about—for years, talking about how they
were going to run down the service, make the
service more expensive, how at the same time
they are going to carry out a campaign vis-à-vis
the Puerto Rico people, and reducing resources
earmarked to the service, all with a view
to privatizing the company.
The UTIER has been consistent for 18 years
warning the country about the route that the
government has been following in Puerto Rico.
AMY GOODMAN: The author Naomi Klein wrote
a book called The Shock Doctrine: The Rise
of Disaster Capitalism.
And in it, she points out, in times of disaster,
precisely like Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico,
those in power use the moment to consolidate
their power and to take from the population.
How can you turn that around to use this absolutely
cataclysmic moment right now in Puerto Rico
to reverse that trend, to establish a sustainable
economy in Puerto Rico?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] That
is precisely what they’re doing in Puerto
Rico, applying the shock doctrine.
Yes, something different could be done.
And I believe that media, such as yourselves,
could help us do something different.
Puerto Rico often hears more from what’s
happening outside than what—about what’s
happening in Puerto Rico, than—rather than
hearing within Puerto Rico.
It’s difficult, but we need to be consistent
with our message.
Little by little, it is penetrating.
And little by little, the country is realizing
that, as in this case of Whitefish, it’s
one of those capitalism disasters.
AMY GOODMAN: In contrast to a colonial recovery,
what would a Puerto Rican reconstruction look
like that’s done for the benefit of Puerto
Ricans, for this island?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] The
first—and I’m going to speak as Ángel
Figueroa, a Puerto Rican, not as the president
of the UTIER, who believes that Puerto Rico
should have all the powers of any country
in the world to be able to develop economically.
The first thing is that the U.S. Congress
should recognize our right to self-determination,
as regards our future, with no intervention
of the Congress, just recognizing that we
Puerto Ricans want for the future is something
that they will totally accept, within a system
of total decolonization, this first.
And it begins by taking down the fiscal control
board.
That’s the first thing that the Congress
should show, within what they have said publicly
about democracy.
The U.S. Constitution says clearly that with
the end of slavery, no power can be held over
and against the rights of a people.
Puerto Rico is a people.
And we cannot allow the Congress to continue
to treat Puerto Rico colonially, as it has
been, like a colony, as it’s doing.
AMY GOODMAN: As we wrap up this interview,
I can’t help but notice, over your left
shoulder, among the pictures on the wall and
posters is a poster of Che Guevara.
What is his significance in your life?
What does he mean to you?
ÁNGEL FIGUEROA JARAMILLO: [translated] Che
Guevara, like other leaders in Latin America,
shows the solidarity that we Latin American
peoples must have at all times.
He’s an Argentine who went to Cuba, an Argentine
who went to Bolivia, an Argentine who went
to Latin America.
That means that we, the Latin American peoples,
need to break down the borders that divide
us as countries, as peoples, so as to have
a single voice, so as to have greater prosperity,
more democracy, more happiness.
That’s our aspiration as a people.
And that is what Che Guevara represented at
a given point in time for all of Latin America.
And that example of solidarity, of breaking
down the barriers that divide us as a nation,
is what we aspire to as Puerto Ricans.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Ángel Figueroa Jaramillo.
He is head of UTIER, the Puerto Rico electrical
workers’ union.
PREPA, the Puerto Rican power authority, is
the largest public power authority in the
United States.
I spoke with him on Sunday in his office in
San Juan, just as Puerto Rico’s governor,
Ricardo Rosselló, was calling for the partial
cancellation of the power company’s contract
with the Montana-based company Whitefish Energy,
hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
The company is two years old and had just
two employees the day Hurricane Maria hit
Puerto Rico.
Special thanks to Sam Alcoff, Laura Gottesdiener,
Juan Carlos Dávila, Denis Moynihan and Charlie
Roberts.
This is Democracy Now!
Back in a minute.
