AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan González.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We turn now to the outcome of Tuesday’s
elections around the United States, where
Democrats made big gains as voters turned
against the Republican Party one year after
Donald Trump was elected president.
In New Jersey, Democrat Phil Murphy defeated
Kim Guadagno in the race to replace the deeply
unpopular Republican Governor Chris Christie.
In Virginia, Democrat Ralph Northam defeated
Republican Ed Gillespie in a gubernatorial
race that was widely seen as a referendum
on President Trump’s policies.
Northam addressed his supporters Tuesday night.
GOV.-ELECT RALPH NORTHAM: We are back by popular
demand.
Virginia, we have witnessed yet another Democratic
sweep today.
… You know, it was said that the eyes of
the nation are now on the commonwealth.
Today, Virginians have answered and have spoken.
Virginia has told us to end the divisiveness,
that we will not condone hatred and bigotry,
and to end the politics that have torn this
country apart.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: In response to the defeat
of Republicans, Trump tweeted, quote, “Ed
Gillespie worked hard but did not embrace
me or what I stand for.”
Northam’s acceptance speech was briefly
interrupted by immigration rights activists,
who protested Northam’s pledge to sign a
ban on sanctuary cities as governor.
The protest prompted a security official to
rush Northam off the stage.
In Maine, voters approved an expansion of
Medicaid for low-income adults, defying Republican
Governor Paul LePage and lending support to
the Affordable Care Act.
In Ohio, voters rejected a measure that would
have forced pharmaceutical companies to reduce
the price of prescription drugs, after Big
Pharma outspent its opponents by a three-to-one
margin.
In Washington state, Democrats have flipped
the state Senate and will take control of
the entire Washington state government.
AMY GOODMAN: Here in New York, voters rejected
a convention to rewrite the state’s constitution.
And in New York City, incumbent Mayor Bill
de Blasio won a second term in office in a
landslide election.
In Philadelphia, civil rights attorney Larry
Krasner has been elected district attorney.
Krasner, a longtime opponent of capital punishment
who opposes police stop-and-frisk policies,
has represented protesters with Black Lives
Matter, ACT UP, Occupy Philadelphia and other
progressive groups.
This is Krasner at his victory party on Tuesday
night.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY-ELECT LARRY KRASNER: This
is a mandate for a movement that is loudly
telling government what it wants.
And what it wants is criminal justice reform
in ways that require transformational change
within the Philadelphia District Attorney’s
Office.
… This is a movement that says we are not
just voters, we are the bosses, who pay the
taxes that fund the salaries of the city workers.
And we have every right to expect that we
will get what we just told you we want, which
is transformational change in criminal justice
and in this District Attorney’s Office.
AMY GOODMAN: The Minneapolis City Council
made history Tuesday night as voters elected
the city’s first transgender councilmember,
making Andrea Jenkins the first transgender
woman of color elected to public office in
the nation.
And in Virginia’s Prince William County,
Democrat journalist Danica Roem is set to
become the nation’s first openly transgender
state lawmaker, after she was elected to represent
the 13th District of Virginia’s House of
Delegates.
This is Roem speaking with a reporter after
she won.
DELEGATE-ELECT DANICA ROEM: On the trans part
there, yeah, I am a transgender woman.
We won because I am a transgender woman, because
I am a reporter, because I am a lifelong resident
of Manassas, because of my inherent identifiers,
not despite them.
I never ran away from them.
I champion them.
And because of that, yeah, Prince William
County is now more inclusive than it was before
this election.
AMY GOODMAN: With her victory, Danica Roem
will unseat 73-year-old 13-term incumbent
Republican Bob Marshall, who’s repeatedly
called himself Virginia’s “chief homophobe.”
Marshall authored an unsuccessful “bathroom
bill” that would have prohibited transgender
people from using public restrooms matching
their gender identity.
For more, we’re joined by Norman Solomon,
co-author of the new report, “Autopsy: The
Democratic Party in Crisis.”
He is co-founder of the online activist group
RootsAction.org, author of many books, including
War Made Easy: How Presidents and Pundits
Keep Spinning Us to Death.
Before we talk about your report, Norm, let’s
talk about the elections that just took place.
Do you see this as a referendum on Donald
Trump?
NORMAN SOLOMON: Well, certainly he’s back
on his heels, and it’s always good when
the proponents of bigotry and racism and xenophobia
are defeated.
So, in that sense, certainly, we had a good
night last night.
And yet, a very steep climb ahead, with so
much power vested in the right-wing corporate
America and the military throughout government
agencies and the federal government, as well
as most state governments.
AMY GOODMAN: Juan, you’ve been closely following
these elections all over the country.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, some—I think some
of the interesting things—and, Norm, you
may agree on this.
First of all, in the—the Washington state
result, where now Democrats are in control
of both houses as well as the governor’s
chair, means that the entire West Coast of
the United States—Washington state, Oregon
and California—are all probably the bluest
sections of the country, in that they all
have Democratic governors and Democratic legislatures.
And also, in New York City, apparently, not
just Bill de Blasio’s 40-point victory in
the city, but also in the suburbs, Westchester
County and Nassau County, both now have Democratic
county executives where they previously had
Republican ones.
So it seems to be that some of the blue areas
of the country are becoming even bluer, but
that doesn’t mean that the rest of the country
necessarily is shifting that much.
I’m wondering what your thoughts are on
that.
NORMAN SOLOMON: Right.
Well, what happened in Washington state means
that now seven states, out of 50, have total
Democratic Party control over the governorship
and the legislatures.
But at the same time, we have fully half of
the states—so we’re talking 25, 26—where
Republicans control every branch of government.
And I think that’s an indicator of just
how many gains have been made by an extremist
right-wing party, which Noam Chomsky correctly
calls the most dangerous criminal organization
in the history of the world.
That’s where we are right now.
And unfortunately, the Democratic Party has
not been able to put together the mobilization
of the base in a way that can counteract that
kind of very vile corporate, militarist force
that we have.
As a matter of fact, we have a situation where
in the last nine years—and this is particularly
important because it spanned the entire Obama
administration—there were 1,000 state legislative
seats lost by Democrats to Republicans.
And that tells us something about the overall
effect of the corporate policies that have
been pursued from the top of the Democratic
Party.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Norm, let’s get into
your book, “Autopsy: The Democratic Party
in Crisis.”
What are some of the key issues that you raise
in that book?
NORMAN SOLOMON: Yes, well, this special report,
which we had a task force assigned for several
months to work on, I co-coordinated with Karen
Bernal, who’s the chair of the Progressive
Caucus of the California Democratic Party.
And our findings were particularly, I think,
striking, in that last year the Democratic
Party, in the general election campaign, pursued
priorities and policies that have remained
in place to this moment.
And most strikingly, perhaps, it’s to disrespect
and defund approaches and outreach towards
the base—young people, people of color and
the working class overall.
And rather than put the messaging, the policy,
their priorities, the funding and outreach,
the advertising towards that base, which is
the future of the party and the future, I
might say, of human progress, in terms of
decency, human rights, environmental protection
and peace, the top of the Democratic Party,
last year and this, has continued to fund
enormously expensive pursuit of what are called
the persuadables—Republican, often suburban,
voters who voted for Romney in 2012.
And according to the Clinton mythology last
year, and continuing from the Democratic National
Committee, somehow they’re going to be dissuaded
from voting for the Republican Party now.
And that is a dead-end, a very dangerous one.
And it’s actually a major reason why we
have Donald Trump in the White House today.
AMY GOODMAN: One of the issues that was raised
across the country, that their top issue was
healthcare.
And something unusual happened in Maine, voters
approving an expansion of Medicaid for low-income
adults, defying the Republican governor, Paul
LePage—an early supporter of Donald Trump—also
lending support to the Affordable Care Act.
But, Norm, this whole issue of healthcare,
of single-payer healthcare, of Obamacare,
and how significant it is?
NORMAN SOLOMON: Yeah, it’s crucial, and
it goes to the underlying, broad question
of: Who is the government to serve?
Will it serve Wall Street or Main Street?
And the mythology that keeps being propagated
by so many pundits and the top of the Democratic
Party is that the party needs to “move to
the center,” quote-unquote, which is code
for saying that Wall Street and the big donors
should determine policy, which very much means—and
you have people who were in the Democratic
Party leadership, like Dick Gephardt, who
have been spending years preventing single
payer, to the best of their ability, from
even getting on the top of the congressional
agenda.
And I think this goes to the question of:
What does it mean to have progressive populism?
And if we’re going to have a meaningful
social change movement that can exercise great
muscle inside and outside the electoral arena,
then we need to redefine what it means to
have progressive politics.
You know, there are many people in the Democratic
Party, officials, who call themselves progressive.
But there’s an insurance company that calls
itself Progressive.
That doesn’t mean much of anything.
And what we need today, I think—and I’m
very happy that the “Autopsy” report has
been getting such a strong response, including
a cover story in the current issue of The
Nation magazine—what we need now is a conscious
effort, with the Tuesday elections behind
us, to transform the Democratic Party, to
do that from the bottom up.
I was just watching on MSNBC this morning
Donna Brazile, the former interim chair of
the DNC, with, of course, her now blockbuster
book out, telling the national audience—she
said, quote, “I like what Tom Perez is doing,”
unquote, referring to the chair of the DNC.
Well, progressives should not like what Tom
Perez is doing.
He engineered the purge of more progressives
out of the DNC apparatus in a meeting in Las
Vegas, a national meeting, a couple of weeks
ago.
There’s a conscious effort to maintain the
corporate control over the power.
We can stop that.
I think an uprising and a groundswell can
transform this party to achieve the two goals
that are spelled out in our “autopsy.”
And by the way, anybody can download it—it’s
not copyrighted; make any use of it you want—at
DemocraticAutopsy.org.
The first goal is to fight the right—the
xenophobes, the racists, the misogynists,
the Trump Republican Party.
We’ve got to roll them back.
We’ve got to defeat them.
And the other goal is to advance progressive
agendas.
And we’re told constantly by the mass media
that those are in contradiction: “You’ve
got to moderate your message in order to defeat
the Republicans.”
On the contrary, we’ve seen what happens
when you send across a Wall Street moderate
message, a conciliatory so-called centrist
message.
We saw what happened to Hillary Clinton when
she tried to do that.
We’ve got Trump in the White House as a
result.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Norm, I wanted to ask you—you
mentioned Donna Brazile and her recent statements
about the unethical agreements that were made
between the DNC and the Hillary Clinton campaign.
Of course, Donna Brazile is a mainstream—a
centrist Democrat, and yet she’s suddenly
now diming out her own DNC.
Could you talk about that and your reaction
to it?
NORMAN SOLOMON: Yes.
Well, what we have with this whole kerfuffle,
this major uproar about Donna Brazile’s
book and so forth, is a falling out among
corporate Democrats.
Some of it’s personality.
Some of it is, OK, since Clinton lost the
presidential race, then there needs to be
some second-guessing, that’s almost inevitable.
I should say that three days before her explosive
exposé, excerpt from her book, appeared in
Politico, from Brazile’s book, we issued
our “autopsy.”
And one of the sections is titled “Democracy
and the Party.”
It was written by a member of the “Autopsy”
task force, Pia Gallegos, who is a civil rights
attorney based in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
And we spelled out the gist.
I mean the loss, the suffering from—of democracy,
the wounds to democracy of a thousand cuts
that have continued to be implemented by the
Democratic National Committee.
And in writing that section, Pia really detailed
the way in which the Hillary Victory Fund
and the really reprehensible shenanigans with
the financial agreements were implemented.
So, we were glad to have that in the “autopsy.”
Three days later, with some details, some
gory details, about those deaths of a thousand
cuts of democracy in terms of funding, came
out from Donna Brazile.
But what does it all boil down to?
It’s a falling out among people who are
basically on the same agenda, the same corporate
page, to have Wall Street—you know, it’s
like serving two masters, but the real master
is Wall Street, and then their appeals to
the base voters when election time comes around.
So I would just sum up and say, yes, Donna
Brazile provided some useful information;
no, she’s really not an ally of progressives.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, let’s go to Donna Brazile
speaking on ABC’s This Week with George
Stephanopoulos to respond to the criticisms
she made in her book, Hacks.
DONNA BRAZILE: I wasn’t a staff person.
I did not work for the Hillary Clinton campaign.
I was not on their daily strategy calls.
I had nothing to do with their data analytics.
I was the chair of the Democratic National
Committee.
I was concerned about the entire party, not
just the presidential, but the senatorial,
congressional and all of the other candidates.
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: From the sound of it,
it sounds like you had a pretty dysfunctional
relationship with the high command in Hillary’s
campaign.
You even talk about telling them at some point,
“I’m not Patsy the slave”?
DONNA BRAZILE: Oh, George, let me tell you
something.
I could not control the—the purse string
of the Democratic Party.
And I had to figure out what the—what was
going on within the party that the chair of
the party—and remember, I wasn’t just
the chair, I’m also a vice chair.
I was an officer for eight years, eight years
under President Obama.
I knew what was going on within the party.
I become chair, and I’m trying to write
a check for something.
I raised the the money, and they’re like,
“You’ve got to get the sign-off from Brooklyn.”
I said, “Brooklyn?”
This wasn’t a standard joint fundraising
agreement.
They had a separate memorandum of understanding.
And I needed to break that, but in order to
break it, I would cause a great commotion.
AMY GOODMAN: And this is Massachusetts Democratic
Senator Elizabeth Warren speaking to Jake
Tapper on CNN, who made a plea to the current
DNC chair, Tom Perez.
SEN.
ELIZABETH WARREN: This is a test for Tom Perez.
And either he’s going to succeed, by bringing
Bernie Sanders and Bernie Sanders’ representatives
into this process, and they’re going to
say, “It’s fair, it works, we all believe
it,” or he’s going to fail.
And I very much hope he succeeds.
I hope for Democrats everywhere, I hope for
Bernie and for all of Bernie’s supporters,
that he’s going to succeed.
JAKE TAPPER: Very quickly, Senator, do you
agree with the notion that it was rigged?
SEN.
ELIZABETH WARREN: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s Elizabeth Warren
saying that the election, the Democratic part
of it, was rigged.
So, Norman Solomon, your report, “Autopsy:
The Democratic Party in Crisis,” along with
this book, extremely significant, but now,
with the Democratic victories around the country,
how will you push it forward?
NORMAN SOLOMON: We’re going to push it forward
by launching a national campaign tomorrow
through RootsAction.org, which has now 1.3
million active people online, most of them
living in either congressional districts and/or
states, for that matter, with a Democrat in
the Senate or the House representing them.
So, we’re going to be urging, starting tomorrow,
those 1 million-plus people to email or otherwise
contact their Democrats in Congress to urge
that they read fully this “autopsy” and
then get back to the constituent, so we can
get a dialogue and a public discussion going.
We’re going to do that for the House starting
tomorrow.
We’re going to do that for the Senate next
week.
Already, the organization Progressive Democrats
of America has endorsed the “autopsy.”
They’re going to reach out to their membership
likewise.
Now that the elections are over from yesterday,
we’re reaching out to many other groups,
who were preoccupied with Virginia.
And also we’re going to be going to literally
thousands and thousands of legislative people
around the country, people holding state legislative
seats who are Democrats, likewise to say,
“Here’s the report.
You can read it.
Let’s talk about it.”
So, this is an “autopsy” not to just be
a report, but to be a catalyst and a tool
and a nonviolent weapon, if you will, to help
organize to transform the Democratic Party,
because, as Elizabeth Warren, I think, was
alluding to, this is a test for the leadership,
among other things, of the Democratic National
Committee.
And frankly, so far, it has not passed the
test.
It continues to flunk.
Karen Bernal from the Progressive Caucus of
the California Democratic Party and I had
a meeting at the DNC headquarters last Thursday
afternoon—by coincidence, just after Brazile’s
Politico exposé had been published.
And we met with Will Hailer, who is a senior
adviser to Tom Perez.
And Karen sent him a letter afterwards with
six specific questions to Chairman Perez,
very pointed questions, gave him politely
'til Thanksgiving to answer those questions
about whether he's serious about democratizing
and having an even-handed DNC and Democratic
Party.
And we’re going to up the ante if he does
not respond appropriately.
AMY GOODMAN: [Keith Ellison] is the deputy
head of the Democratic National Committee.
Do you feel that Keith Ellison makes a difference?
Though he lost to Perez, he is really his
deputy now at the DNC.
NORMAN SOLOMON: Yes.
Well, and Will Hailer, who we met with, came
in with Ellison, a longtime Ellison aide before
that.
Frankly, just between you and me, Keith Ellison
is boxed at the DNC.
As you noted, he lost.
He ran a good race to be chair.
He lost to Perez.
And he couldn’t say no when he was invited
to be a deputy.
But it brought him inside the tent.
And that put some limits on him in terms of
being able to strongly critique what the DNC
is doing.
It’s illustrative that after the Brazile
stuff broke last week, you had Tom Perez issue
just a double-talk statement, basically doubling
down and justifying the unjustifiable, this
sweetheart financial deal between the Clinton
campaign and the DNC.
And at the same time, Perez said he was going
to be even-handed.
Well, in federal court, two months after Perez
became chair, a lawyer for the DNC said that
the DNC has a legal right, despite its charter
requirement to be even-handed during the nomination
process—asserted that the DNC has a legal
right, if it wanted to, to choose the nominee
in a smoke-filled back room.
That was under Perez’s chairmanship, chairpersonship.
So, we’ve got Ellison in a particular role.
He’s doing the best he can.
But it’s the grassroots that has to do pressure.
It’s the grassroots that has to organize
effectively.
And I would say to people who dismiss the
Democratic Party: How are you going to defeat
the Republicans next year?
How are you going to prevent there being a
Republican speaker or a Republican majority
leader?
The only way to do that, the only feet-on-the-ground,
eyes-on-the-horizon way to do that is to organize
effectively and, in the best sense of the
term, progressives take over the Democratic
Party.
AMY GOODMAN: Norman Solomon, co-author of
the new report, “Autopsy: The Democratic
Party in Crisis,” co-founder of the online
activist group RootsAction.org.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, more explosive revelations
from the Paradise Papers.
Stay with us.
