AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report,
I’m Amy Goodman
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And I’m Nermeen Shaikh. Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers around the country and
around the world.
We 
begin today’s show in Florida, where 17
people died Wednesday in one of the deadliest
school shootings in U.S. history.
The massacre at the Stoneman Douglas High
School in Parkland, Florida, was the 18th
school shooting this year, according to Everytown
for Gun Safety.
This means there have been a school shooting
on average every 60 hours so far this year.
AMY GOODMAN: Police have identified the gunman
as a 19-year-old former student named Nikolas
Cruz.
He was carrying an AR-15 with multiple magazines
of ammunition.
In addition to the 17 dead, 15 people were
injured.
Students described the terror of being inside
the school during the shooting.
STUDENT 1: I was in the classroom, and all
I heard was the gunshots.
And then, when we went outside and the police
cleared us for us to go outside, I see dead
bodies.
… We locked the door.
We turned off the lights.
And then we waited ’til the police said
it was clear for us to leave.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Once the gunman was captured,
students spoke to reporters outside the school.
STUDENT 2: Well, we heard gunshots.
We heard people like knocking on the door,
saying they were police, but I guess they
weren’t.
They were trying to like trick us to come
out.
The first ones I heard, I mean, they were
like nonstop, like two big shots.
And then everyone just panicked, was running
everywhere.
AMY GOODMAN: Police have identified the gunman
as a 19-year-old former student named Nikolas
Cruz, who been expelled from the high school.
Cruz was arrested a few miles away from the
scene of the shooting.
His classmates described him as a loner and
a former member of Junior ROTC who was obsessed
with guns.
Police say his social media profile showed
“very, very disturbing” content, including
many photos of his weapons arsenal.
Someone using the name Nikolas Cruz also posted
threatened SOTs on YouTube and other sites,
including “I want to shoot people with my
AR-15” and “I’m going to kill law enforcement
one day.
They go after the good people.”
Cruz’s adoptive father died when he was
young.
His adopted mother just died in November of
the flu, that became pneumonia.
The New York Times reports, since the Sandy
Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown,
Connecticut, in 2012, more than 400 people
have been killed.
The shooting comes just days after President
Trump released his budget, which proposes
cutting millions of dollars from the National
Instant Criminal Background Check System.
We’re joined now by two guests: Josh Horwitz,
executive director of the Coalition to Stop
Gun Violence, the co-author of Guns, Democracy,
and the Insurrectionist Idea, and Geraldine
Thompson is a former Florida Democratic state
senator.
She represented the Orlando district where
the 2016 Pulse nightclub massacre took place.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Geraldine Thompson, let’s begin with you.
You’re not far from where this high school
shooting took place, right near Fort Lauderdale,
which, by the way, experienced another shooting,
where five people were killed, just a year
ago at the Fort Lauderdale airport.
But now, at this school, the horror of 17
people being killed—three outside the school,
12 inside the school and then two who were
injured who have since died.
This must bring back horrific memories for
you from Pulse in 2016, the nightclub, where
Omar Mateen gunned down 49 people in the club
and injured more than 50 others.
Yet, what has been done?
What are the laws in Florida?
Please share your response.
GERALDINE THOMPSON: Well, unfortunately, nothing
has happened since the Pulse nightclub shooting.
And I said at that time, and I want to repeat
today, that we have got to tighten our laws
with regard to gun ownership in this country.
I see no reason why a private individual needs
a military-type weapon and a magazine of ammunition
with enough rounds to kill hundreds of people.
So we have got to tighten up gun—who gets
guns, who has access to guns in this country.
And we have seen inactivity on the part of
Congress.
We have seen dysfunction on the part of Congress.
And I think the state legislatures need to
assert their power to require a constitutional
convention for the purpose of amending the
United States Constitution to require term
limits for members of Congress.
You have careerists in Congress.
You have people who take ownership of the
position.
They don’t come back to the communities
that elected them.
And so there is a disconnect with regard to
what the people want.
And I think the only way to address this is
through term limits for members of Congress.
And the founders anticipated that there might
be a time when common people wanted to amend
the Constitution and Congress refused to act.
So, under Article 5 of the United States Constitution,
there is a provision that allows state legislatures
to petition Congress for a convention.
And if 34, which would be two-thirds of the
states in the United States—if 34 states
ask for this constitutional convention, then
Congress would be compelled to call such a
convention.
And I think that the states need to take back
the power, because, to answer your question,
we have seen nothing happen since the Pulse
nightclub shooting here in Orlando.
And that was the district that I represented.
And you saw the trauma to the first responders,
to the physicians, just as you see the trauma
today.
You have 17 people who were killed, but you
have many more people who were traumatized,
because teachers don’t sign up to go into
war zones.
They are not equipped to deal with the kind
of weapon that was used in this massacre yesterday.
And you have students who are traumatized.
And we have counselors at schools, but those
counselors are overburdened with paperwork
with regard to standardized testing.
They’ve got to keep a record of all of that,
attendance.
So they don’t really function in the sense
that they can sit down and talk with students
about what’s going on with them.
And I know that, in many instances, there
are counselors, special counselors, that are
brought in with regard to how to handle grief
and how to handle loss.
But this should not be a common occurrence
in our country.
And we see it happening—as you said, the
number, just since 2018, is just unfathomable,
that we should see this happening in this
country because of inactivity, because of
dysfunction on the part of Congress.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I want to go to comments
that Florida Governor Rick Scott made last
night, Wednesday night, speaking at a press
conference.
He said the shooting was, quote, “pure evil.”
GOV.
RICK SCOTT: How could this ever happen in
this country?
How could this happen in this state?
This is a state that is focused on keeping
all of our children safe.
And you come to the conclusion, this is just
absolutely pure evil.
This state does not tolerate violence.
We have law enforcement that will always show
up to defend our safety.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So that’s Governor Rick
Scott speaking last night.
He also refused to be drawn into a discussion
about gun control, when he was asked by a
reporter if stricter legislation was needed.
GOV.
RICK SCOTT: My heart goes out to everybody
impacted today.
You know, all of us can internalize this,
if it would happen to their family.
You know, all of us want to live and have
everybody live in a safe community.
And there’s a time to continue to have these
conversations about how, through law enforcement,
how, through mental illness funding, that
we make sure people are safe.
And we’ll continue to do that.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So that’s Governor Rick
Scott.
Geraldine Thompson, can you respond to what
he and other legislators in Florida and politicians
have said?
GERALDINE THOMPSON: Well, certainly there
are evil people in our society, and there
are mentally disturbed people in our society.
And when you combine a mental instability
and you combine evil with ready access to
guns, that’s when it becomes lethal.
So, I think we need to put the focus on what
we do about restricting access to guns, when
we know that there are elements in our society,
when they have a weapon, go on a rampage and
harm and kill other individuals.
After the Pulse nightclub shooting, I asked
Governor Rick Scott if we could talk about
a special session, convening a special session
of the Florida Legislature, to talk about
reform.
And at that time, he said that the issue was
ISIS, and it was not about guns, it was about
ISIS.
And so, my question was: Was Sandy Hook about
ISIS?
Was Charleston, South Carolina, about ISIS?
We have home-grown terrorists in the United
States of America.
And certainly, while ISIS is a threat, we
have got to also focus on what happens here
in this country.
And we saw in Oklahoma the bombing of the
Federal Building there.
That was a home-grown terrorist.
So we can’t kind of deflect the focus away
from what the real problem is.
And that is that we have people who can buy
guns without background checks.
If the gun is bought at a gun show, if it’s
bought from a personal individual, then they
don’t have to go through the background
checks.
And there should be universal background checks.
And the people have to take the power to require
their leaders—it’s about the governed
rather than those who govern.
And the people who are governed are saying,
“We want responsible gun ownership in the
United States of America.”
And—
AMY GOODMAN: Geraldine Thompson, I remember,
right after the Pulse shooting, there was
this news conference.
It was very dramatic, and the governor spoke,
among others.
And as they all left the podium, you got up.
They left, and you got up, and you said, “We
are going to have very serious discussion
about reform,” you said, about the governor
and you.
“How do guns come into hands of violent
and unstable people?
How is it that assault weapons that are used
in military operations get into the hands
of a single individual?
How is it that the magazines of weapons and
bullets that are usually used in military
combat come into our community?”
I think he had walked off by then.
But Governor Scott, who’s expressing his
horror yesterday, is also fighting an almost
unanimous decision by a Florida court.
A federal appeals court last year said doctors
in Florida must be allowed to discuss guns
with their patients, striking down portions
of a Florida law that restricts what physicians
can say to patients about firearm ownership.
It was a 10-to-1 decision, the full panel
of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
finding the law known as the Privacy of Firearm
Owners Act violates the First Amendment rights
of doctors.
The majority decision said Florida does not
have carte blanche to restrict the speech
of doctors and medical professionals on a
certain subject without satisfying the demands
of heightened security—of heightened scrutiny—again,
the court striking down Florida’s law barring
doctors from discussing guns with patients.
Rick Scott is on the other side of that.
GERALDINE THOMPSON: We called that law “Glocks
versus docs.”
And while a doctor can ask a patient if he
or she has a swimming pool, to safeguard children
who might be in the home, a doctor was prohibited
from asking if that person had a gun.
And certainly, doctors have to be able to
provide counseling, to provide treatment,
whatever is needed, in the context of what’s
going on in that person’s life.
And Governor Rick Scott wanted to require
people who receive food stamps or other public
assistance to take drug tests.
And that was also struck down by the court.
So, he’s had a lot of positions that have
been unconstitutional, and this is another
example of that.
And he is not addressing at all, as he refused
to address after the Pulse nightclub shooting,
what are we going to do about restricting
gun ownership and making sure that there is
responsible gun ownership in the state of
Florida and in the United States.
And now he wants to go to the Senate of the
United States, and we’ve already seen what
he’s done here in Florida.
And as I mentioned, there are no term limits
for members of the Senate or the U.S. House
of Representatives.
We have term limits for the state House, for
the state Senate in Florida, and the president
of the United States has term limits.
That individual can serve two 4-year terms
only.
But there are no term limits, so you have
people who take ownership of the position,
and it’s about self-perpetuation, it’s
about careerism.
And the special interests fund their campaigns
year after year, so that, as the incumbent,
there’s not a level playing field for an
individual who would challenge them.
And so—
AMY GOODMAN: Geraldine Thompson, we’re going
to have to leave it there, but I want to thank
you very much for being with us, former Florida
Democratic state senator, who was state senator
during the Pulse shooting, the horrific shooting
at the nightclub in June of 2016, where 49
people were killed, as we talk, not even two
years later, about yet another horrific shooting,
this one at a high school.
Eighteen school shootings since the beginning
of this year, not even two months ago.
When we come back, Josh Horwitz joins us,
of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
Stay with us.
