AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh, with
Part 2 of our discussion with Arundhati Roy,
whose book, The Ministry of Utmost Happiness,
her second novel, has just come out in paperback.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: In Part 1 of our discussion,
we talked about Arundhati Roy’s new book,
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
But now I want to turn to President Trump’s
business partnerships in India.
A recent investigation in The New Republic
by journalist Anjali Kamat, headlined “Political
Corruption and the Art of the Deal,” found
that the Trump Organization has entered into
more deals in India than in any other foreign
country.
These deals are worth an estimated $1.5 billion
and produced royalties of up to $11 million
between 2014 and 2017.
Anjali appeared on Democracy Now!
in March and talked about the partnerships
the Trump Organization has with businesses
in India.
ANJALI KAMAT: Almost all of the partners have
a long history of legal entanglements, have
a long history of being investigated for tax
evasion by the government.
At least three of them are very closely connected
to very powerful political officials.
Two of them are—have close connections to
powerful political officials who are in the
ruling party right now, who are part of the
ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, the BJP, which
is the party of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
One of his partners is actually a political
official himself.
He’s a five-term state lawmaker in Bombay,
now called Mumbai.
And Mangal Prabhat Lodha is one of the wealthiest
men in the country.
He’s also a lawmaker.
And he shares the same kind of ideological
and political vision, in some ways.
They’re both right-wing politicians, both
developers who turned into politicians.
His campaign slogan, a couple of years ago,
became “Making Mumbai great again.”
And both the Lodha Group and the other—another
group in North India, in Gurgaon, called IREO,
both of whom have ties to the ruling BJP,
have also been under investigation on allegations
of money laundering.
So, these are—you know, these might be close
friends of Don Jr., but there’s a lot of
questions about how exactly they were vetted
and what their reputations are.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s journalist Anjali
Kamat, talking about the problems with the
Trump Organization’s partnerships in India.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump Jr.—that’s President
Trump’s eldest son—has made repeated trips
to India, most recently earlier this year.
During his visit, following his sister’s
visit, Ivanka Trump, he was asked about corruption
in India at the Global Business Summit in
New Delhi.
SUPRIYA SHRINATE: Are some some sections of
Indian industry willing to bend rules where
it suits them?
DONALD TRUMP JR.: Well, listen, I think there’s
an entrepreneurial spirit here that is, you
know—again, it needs no further explanation,
though the media will say that I said something
totally different.
But, so, there’s an entrepreneurial spirit
here, you know, that is different than elsewhere
in the world.
… You know, I have seen changes come.
You know, once I got with the right people
and understood, I have seen reforms—though
I’m not talking policy.
I’m saying, as an outside businessman coming
in, over the couple years, you know, I have
seen changes.
You know, some of the reforms probably hit
everyone, but they also weeded out in the
real estate sector, which was—you know,
if you were a developer, it was a four-letter
word.
OK?
There was no trust, because you were promised
X, and you were delivered X-minus, if anything
at all.
And that doesn’t work in the long term.
So I think there’s been, you know, a burden
imposed on all developers.
The ones who have done a good job, the ones
who are well-intentioned, the ones that I’m
now, you know, truly friends with, they’ve
done a good job.
And they’ll rise to the top anyway.
It will weed out the bad players.
And that needed to happen.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So, Arundhati, that’s Donald
Trump Jr., Trump’s eldest son, speaking
in Delhi in February.
Could you respond to, first of all, the organizations
that Anjali Kamat spoke about in her piece,
the businesses in India, and what impact it’s
had, the fact that the president of the United
States, his organization, has such close links
with these businesses, many of whom the leaders
of whom have been accused of corruption?
ARUNDHATI ROY: See, I read Anjali’s piece.
It was extraordinary.
And what is happening in India, obviously—in
many other countries, but India, you know,
again, lauded as this great democracy—the
fusing of business.
And most of the time, business does mean land.
You know, land is the goal there, land and
information, so the fusing of these two interests.
It’s not in the least bit surprising that
people like Modi and Trump and their empires
are fusing their interests.
You know, this, the project that they were
trying to do, the Trump Jr., it involved really
evicting thousands of poor people to build
apartments for—you know, exclusive apartments
for a very few very rich people.
There’s nothing new about that.
But, honestly, you know, the level of thievery
that’s going on.
As you know, Nirav Modi, who was photographed
with Modi at the World Economic Forum, is
now, I think, here in New York City, having
run away after robbing a public bank of millions
and millions and millions, you know?
So, these are robber barons now.
That’s what we’re talking about.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And, in fact, Nirav Modi,
whom you mentioned, when his flagship store
opened on Madison Avenue, which is still there,
Donald Trump Jr. attended the opening.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Yeah.
So you can see these are—I think of them
just as people who are—you know, it’s
literally like they have these gigantic straws,
and they’re just sucking the wealth out
of.
And it’s brutal, because it doesn’t matter
that people are starving, people are broken,
demonetization happened.
All of this, it just—they live in a bubble.
I mean, I was looking at those visuals, and
I’m thinking, you know, these are the people,
including the people in the audience, who
control—who control the economy, who control
the wealth.
I actually don’t think that they even know
how to go to a village anymore in India, like
they don’t actually physically know how
to go to a village.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about the relationship
or the similarities between Modi and Trump,
who both embrace each other.
Modi will run again for prime minister next
year.
President Trump already began.
He’s campaigning regularly to run for president
in the United States.
But, you know, you talk about the fascist
policies of Modi.
Talk more about what that means.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, the thing is that I feel
that there’s a difference between the two,
inasmuch as Trump—you know, I see him being
treated like a lunatic in the White House.
All the elite institutions, including the
military, the CIA, the FBI—the media, too—is
against him.
And yet your democratic principles don’t
have a means of dealing with a lunatic in
the White House, like you don’t know what
to do about that, you know?
Modi is not a lunatic.
You know, Modi is somebody who has, as I said,
been born from a process that began—well,
the modern part of it began in the 1920s.
The older part of it began at the turn of
the century.
And in India, what you’re seeing is a situation
where the media is terrified, people are terrified,
bureaucrats are terrified.
The Supreme Court is crumbling.
I mean, for the first time in the history
of the Supreme Court, four senior judges came
out and held a press conference.
You have a—
AMY GOODMAN: Saying what?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Saying that democracy is in
danger.
Saying that the chief justice of the Supreme
Court is a man of the government who’s fixing
benches.
You know?
Recently there was a situation—it’s unbelievable—that
in—I think it was in 2008.
There was a killing of a man called Sohrabuddin,
claimed to be a terrorist in Gujarat.
He was killed.
His wife was killed.
Later it was found that they were taken off
a bus, held in custody and killed.
His wife was killed.
The witness was killed.
And then—and one of the persons implicated
in the murder is now the chief of the BJP
and Modi’s closest confidant and lieutenant,
Amit Shah.
He was in jail for a while, released.
Then there was a CBI court listening—hearing
the case.
The judge was sudden—one judge, who asked
Amit Shah to appear, was transferred.
The next judge who came asked Amit Shah to
appear, suddenly died.
And now a magazine has exposed a trail of
extremely mysterious facts, which point to
something terrible happened, right?
The three friends of the judge, co-judges,
who knew that this judge was under pressure,
two of them died mysteriously.
All that people were asking the court was:
Can there be an inquiry?
The Supreme Court said no.
So, you’re looking at—you know, you’re
looking at, of course, the massacre in Gujarat.
You’re looking at assassinations now.
And you’re looking at institutions that
will just refuse, just now, because the elections
are coming.
People who have been convicted as mass killers
in the Gujarat massacre have all been released.
People—a man called Swami Aseemanand, who
was convicted in the Samjhauta Express blast,
has been released.
There’s a chief minister of UP, Swami—Yogi
Adityanath, who openly talks about the fact
that “I’m just going to kill anti-social
elements.”
So, something like 400 people have just been
shot down.
So, there is a history of all these institutions
colluding, you know?
You have here a situation where Trump—Trump
has come out of what I think of—he’s emerged
from the sewage system of something that has
gone terribly wrong, you know?
But he is a shock to the system here, whereas
Modi is embraced by the system.
And the media is absolutely terrified.
AMY GOODMAN: And let’s talk more about the
media.
There was a Washington Post headline, “In
Modi’s India, journalists face bullying,
criminal cases and worse.”
And then you have, in an especially high-profile
case last September, the editor and publisher
of a Bangalore weekly, Gauri Lankesh, murdered.
Since the 2014 election of Modi, India reportedly
becoming one of the world’s most dangerous
countries to be a reporter.
According to the 2017 Press Freedom Index
compiled by Reporters Without Borders, India
was ranked 136 out of 180.
To give some context, the same index ranks
Zimbabwe, before the fall of Mugabe, at 127
and Afghanistan at 120.
And you have India at 136 of 180.
ARUNDHATI ROY: And these are probably statistics
that are gathered from journalists who have
been killed or incarcerated, you know?
But look at the fact that the most—most
great journalists don’t have jobs.
They are just out of work, because nobody
wants reporting.
The mainstream media doesn’t really want
reporting, you know?
And this is what is terrifying, apart from
the fact that you have the social media now,
you have WhatsApp, which is perhaps the biggest
influencer of public opinion now, which is
putting out, deliberately—I mean, the BJP,
many people have written about their WhatsApp
farms, you know, where they just put out so
much vitriol.
So—
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And false news, in fact, yeah.
ARUNDHATI ROY: False news.
Fake news, for example, now is something we
all have to live with, because fake news and
real news are like fruit that you can buy
in a supermarket.
Which one do you want?
You know, you can believe—and it’s lovely,
because you can then believe whatever you
want to believe.
The rape of this little girl in Jammu, the
Satanic rituals around her rape and murder,
you know what happened.
One person put out a story in a newspaper,
called The Sunday Guardian, giving a completely
fake account of what happened.
And underneath, it said it’s fake.
But now that is tweeted and reported as real
news.
So you have a situation where, building now,
oh, the girl was not raped, oh, the Gujarat
killings did not happen, and everybody is
plotting against us, you know?
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, let’s go back to that,
that issue, elaborate on it, the recent incidents
of rape in India and in Pakistan, which received
widespread attention in the international
media.
Last month, India’s Cabinet approved the
death penalty for rapists of girls below the
age of 12, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi
held an emergency meeting in response to nationwide
outrage in the wake of recent rape cases.
According to government officials, the order
also amends the law to include more drastic
punishment for a convicted rapist of girls
below the age of 16.
This comes as there were 40,000 rapes reported
in 2016, and the victims in these cases were—40
percent of them were children.
This is the mother of a young victim, responding
to the change in the law.
ASHA DEVI: [translated] I am not satisfied
with this law, because it is fine for the
minors under 12 years of age, but what about
the rape victims or above that age?
So, I feel that there is no more hideous crime
than rape.
There is no larger pain, no bigger accident.
So I think every rapist should be hanged.
AMY GOODMAN: And then protests erupted last
month over the gang rape of an 8-year-old
Muslim girl, that you, Arundhati, were talking
about, in a Hindu-dominated area of the state
of Jammu in Kashmir.
One of the three suspected rapists is a police
officer.
Authorities say the motivation for the kidnapping,
rape and murder of the girl, named Asifa Bano,
was to drive her Muslim family out of their
village.
Two lawmakers with the ruling BJP party were
forced to resign, after they helped organize
rallies in support of the accused rapists,
sparking widespread outcry.
Meanwhile, earlier this year, there were also
mass protests in Pakistan following the rape
and murder of Zainab Ansari, a 7-year-old
girl.
The perpetrator, Imran Ali, was given four
death sentences.
He was linked to murders and sexual assaults
of other girls in the region by police.
So, talk about what this—what is happening
in India and Pakistan, because, of course,
it’s not alone in India, but what Modi,
the Legislature, what people are doing about
this.
ARUNDHATI ROY: See, the thing is that, you
know, it’s not that Modi had an emergency
meeting and called for the death penalty because
he was concerned about the protests and so
on.
What happened was that he did not respond
when the rape actually happened, when the
protests began.
It’s only after he went to England and realized
it was a big issue internationally, and, again,
had to make a spectacle, an appearance of
doing something.
But the truth is, first of all, I’m against
death penalty, you know—the death penalty.
But what actually happens is, of course there’s
a death penalty for mass murder.
All the people who were involved in mass murder
in Gujarat were sentenced to death, very dramatically,
and then released.
You know?
So, really, it’s a question of gathering
evidence, of making a really strong case,
of taking—of doing things because you really
want to do them, not because you want to perform
on some international stage by making these
empty declarations, you know?
So, the trouble is that, you know, you have
rapes, you have these brutal men who are raping
women.
Of course Hindus are raping girls, Muslims
are raping girls, everybody’s raping girls,
and so there’s no question of it belonging
to only one community.
But what is new over here is that, aside from
the fact that the girl was not just raped
and killed, she was held in a temple—according
to the police reports, held in a temple, drugged,
raped and then bludgeoned to death.
There’s a sort of ritualistic, Satanistic
part to it, which is terrifying, you know.
But leaving aside the criminals, the fact
that people are marching in support of the
rapists—men and women, you know, are marching
in support of the rapists, marching, demanding
the charges be withdrawn.
This is what is frightening.
I mean, in the course of one year, there was
a godman called Ram Rahim who was sentenced
to—convicted of rape.
His supporters created havoc.
You know, this rape, the Hindu Ekta Manch,
the Hindu Unity Manch, is marching in support
of rapists.
Asaram Bapu, another godman—both these godmen
very close to Modi—convicted of rape.
They had to have a security lockdown in three
states, because the people who are going to
support the rapists are going to create trouble.
So, this is something we’ve got to wrap
our heads around, you know?
It’s gone beyond just the little girl that
was raped and the maniacs who raped her.
But the politicization of this, you know,
what is it?
What is going on?
After all, we are in a society where it has
been allowed for upper-caste men to rape Dalit
women.
It is their right, seen as their right.
You know, we live in places like where—places
like Manipal, Nagaland and Kashmir, army’s
officers and soldiers who have been accused
of rape are protected by the Armed Forces
Special Powers Act, you know?
So, it is a bit naive to say, “You know,
let’s not politicize it.”
But it is political.
It is political.
And it has to be looked at in that way.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, sexual violence
against girls and women has reportedly increased
since Modi came to power in 2014.
So, could you, you know, elaborate on that?
I mean, you’ve given some indication now,
but do you think that, under his administration,
there is somehow a more permissive attitude
towards this kind of sexual—
ARUNDHATI ROY: There’s a more permissive
attitude to all forms of violence.
Right?
People know that they will be protected in
the end.
I mean, rape, yes, but lynching, too, hacking
someone to death because they suspected of
eating beef, hacked—flogging somebody because
they are—flogging Dalits because they are
transporting dead cattle.
You know, every kind of violence is being
support.
Often the victims have cases filed against
them.
So, as long as the perpetrators belong loosely
to this Hindu family, as they call it—the
Hindutva family, rather—they know that even
if they go in for a few days to jail, when
they come out they will be greeted as heroes.
And as we come up to the elections, you’re
seeing a situation where, for example, just
two days ago in Gurgaon—this is just outside
of Delhi—a group of thugs went and prevented
Muslims from saying the namaz outdoors.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Prayers.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Right.
And then they were arrested for a few days.
There was huge protests asking for them to
be released.
Then they gave a decree saying that, “From
now on, we will decide where Muslims are allowed
to pray.
They cannot pray outside, unless it’s more
than 50 percent of the local population.
But we’ll decide.”
And it’s being allowed.
And all these burners are being turned up,
because now, given the fact that demonetization
and the new goods-and-services tax has broken
the back of all small enterprises and local
people, the only way that they’re going
to drum up support is through polarization.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Let me just go to that, the
issue of demonetization.
This was implemented in November 2016 and
became one of the more unpopular policies
implemented by the Modi government.
In a surprise television announcement then,
Prime Minister Modi declared that all 500
and 1,000 rupee notes would no longer be,
quote, “legal tender.”
The move, which came to be called demonetization,
applied to 86 percent of the value of all
currency in circulation.
The Modi government said the initiative was
aimed at eliminating black money—that is,
unaccounted, untaxed wealth—as well as targeting
fake currency and terror financing.
The move was widely condemned.
And in response, the Modi government said
demonetization would also help India switch
from cash to digital money.
Demonetization impacted, in particular, hundreds
of millions of people employed by India’s
vast informal sector, that deals predominantly
in cash.
It also had ruinous consequences for the primarily
cash-reliant rural economy.
AMY GOODMAN: And last year, the former governor
of the Reserve Bank of India, Raghuram Rajan,
also criticized the decision, saying, “Anybody
who knows India knows that very quickly, we
find ways around the system.
… Essentially, all the money that was demonetized
came back into the system and it didn’t
have the direct effect that a lot of people
would fess up and pay taxes,” unquote.
So, can you elaborate on the impact of this
demonetization, who it helped, who it hurt?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, the thing is that that
announcement was made very soon just before
the UP election, the Uttar Pradesh elections.
Uttar Day is the largest state in India, and
the elections and who rules Uttar Pradesh
usually means who rules India.
So, what it did was to suddenly become a body
blow to every single other political party.
Only the BJP had money.
And today, that is the truth, that no political
party has any money, or hardly any money,
except for the BJP.
So, in the coming elections, it is going to
be, you know, one party with all the money
versus everyone else who’s scrabbling around
for some sort of monetary foothold.
But apart from the economics of it—as we
know, the economics of it were—it was just
nonsense, you know.
I mean, even the finance minister doesn’t
seem to have known this was going to happen,
although certainly people in the BJP seem
to have known and have taken steps to protect
their own wealth.
But look at the implications.
I mean, this has never been done ever in history
that somebody can come out and, overnight,
declare all—86 percent of the currency illegal.
Currency is a social contract between the
government and its citizens.
So, it was like breaking the spine of every
Indian and seeing whether you can break it.
AMY GOODMAN: So your money is worthless.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Yeah.
And once—it’s worthless.
AMY GOODMAN: Your physical money is worthless.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Is worthless.
You have to go to the bank, deposit it.
I was, in fact, in rural India when this happened.
It was just awful, you know, to see.
And people don’t have bank accounts.
Women, who have collected money in their,
you know, saris and folded it away.
Everything, you know, just— it was just
devastating.
But what I’m saying is, apart from all of
that, even if it had been a great economic
policy, how does a democracy allow someone
to do that?
And once you’ve done that, today look at
Indians.
Everyone is wondering, “What is he going
to do next?”
He can do anything.
If he can do this, he can do anything.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So, wait, can I just—can
we just understand, in a parliamentary system,
the parliament doesn’t have to approve the
moves, massive policy changes, by the prime
minister?
ARUNDHATI ROY: I mean, I just don’t understand
how this was allowed to happen.
But, of course, they had such a huge majority,
so it went through.
I mean, he just came up and announced it,
mocking people, you know, saying, “Oh, well,
you know, now there is a wedding in the family,
but, sorry, there’s going to be no cash,”
and laughing about it, you know?
But this is what I mean, you know, about a—it’s
a kind of microfascism, you know?
Can I just control the very individual at
every stage?
And having done that, you have put the fear
into people of what is going to happen next.
The other big thing, which we haven’t spoken
about, is the government’s idea of the Aadhaar
card, the unique identity card.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Biometric.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Biometric, where every piece
of private information is going to be stored
in this database forever, whichever [inaudible]
comes or doesn’t come, available to be hacked
by anybody.
I mean, the whole world is reeling about how
data is being hacked and stolen.
And here, this is how you’re going to control
everything and everyone, at an individual
level, you know?
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, what’s the government’s
explanation for Aadhaar is needed?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Oh, they are saying that this
is—you know, so that we can rations to the
poor.
I mean, everyone has an election card.
You don’t need biometric data to distribute
rations, if you really want to distribute
rations.
But as we know, you’re destroying the livelihood
of the poor, and then pretending that collecting
data is some missionary service.
It’s ridiculous, you know?
AMY GOODMAN: We wanted to end, Arundhati,
by asking you a little more about Edward Snowden
and your trip to Moscow.
But with the latest news, this voter-profiling
system, Cambridge Analytica, is going bust
now.
They’re closing down.
They gained international attention after
Facebook revealed it acquired the personal
information of 87 million Americans, without
their permission, as part of an effort to
push for the support of President Trump.
Now, Edward Snowden just recently made comments
about media surveillance and new technologies
that are combining to target people and influence
elections.
He called this “the greatest redistribution
of power since the industrial revolution.”
Talk about your trip to see him.
You have a book out, Things That Can and Cannot
Be Said: Essays and Conversations.
You went there with the renowned whistleblower
Dan Ellsberg, famous for releasing the Pentagon
Papers, and the actor John Cusack.
ARUNDHATI ROY: It was really not something
that I had planned or anything.
You know, Dan and John were going, and they
asked me to come, and I went along.
And it was fascinating, because Edward was
ahead of the curve, I think, in terms of understanding
that data is the new wealth, data is the new
gold.
You know, information is worth everything
now.
And, of course, you know.
having lived in Kashmir and—I mean, having
visited Kashmir and being to Bastar, I know—I
know how much surveillance.
In India, we are very aware of the fact that
our cellphones are our coordinates, and, you
know, people are listening in, and every militant
that’s killed and every assassination that
happens, the court hearing is just full of
IMEI numbers and SMSes and cellphone messages
and so on.
But I—
NERMEEN SHAIKH: What are [IMEI] numbers?
ARUNDHATI ROY: The unique identity of a cellphone.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I see.
ARUNDHATI ROY: The instrument itself, you
know?
But I think that Ed—Edward Snowden really
understands, and I do agree with him.
And I wish he listens to this show, and I
want him to pay attention to Aadhaar.
He has tweeted about the UID Aadhaar.
It will be the biggest data-gathering centralization
of data the world has ever seen.
You know, now we’re talking about 1 billion
people’s data—bank accounts, medical.
Everything will be on record.
And recently, the state government to Andhra
Pradesh actually released, by accident, all
the Aadhar numbers of its citizens.
You know, so anyone could browse the net and
look up their personal data.
You can block me, but you can do anything.
And it’s not just governments that can do
it.
People can do it to each other.
It’s just a nightmare from hell.
It’s like a science-fiction film.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, what kind of opposition
has there been to this?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, right now, the court
hearing is on.
But the trouble is that, you know, it’s
so hard for people to understand the depth
of this.
You know, like always.
I mean, even when we were fighting on the
issue of the dam, until the dam is built,
the lands are flooded, the irrigation isn’t
working, only then people realize what it
really means, you know?
So, in a way, to alert people in advance to
something like this, that you can’t really
wrap your head around, is still very difficult,
you know?
But there is opposition.
I mean, people, especially groups of young
people, are working very, very hard to convince
the court not to make it compulsory.
But the court has, again, you know, been playing
this game of delaying the hearings.
And while they delay the hearings, the government
is saying, “Well, you need an Aadhaar card
for your gas connection.
You need an Aadhaar card for your phone connection.”
The bank goes on messaging you 10 times a
day, saying, “Please link your account with
this.”
You can’t get X, Y or Z services without
an Aadhaar card.
You know, people who are starving, who need
rations from the government, are told to produce
Aadhaar cards.
They don’t have internet connections there.
They don’t know—you know, someone is standing
in line, and their fingerprints are worn because
they’re peasants.
So they say, “OK, why don’t you give your
print?”
It’s just anarchy, you know?
And to try and discipline an ocean like that,
to digitize an ocean like that, that lives
in several centuries simultaneously, is going
to cause violence of an unimaginable level.
AMY GOODMAN: Arundhati, Edward Snowden told
you in Moscow, “If we do nothing, we sort
of sleepwalk into a total surveillance state
where we have both a super-state that has
unlimited capacity to apply force with an
unlimited ability to know (about the people
it is targeting)—and that’s a very dangerous
combination.
That’s the dark future,” he said.
ARUNDHATI ROY: It’s true.
And the thing about it is that it’s permanent.
It doesn’t matter then whether it’s Trump
or Obama or Modi or Rahul Gandhi or whoever.
That data is there, to be used by people with
all kinds of intentions, good and bad.
But it is an absolute calamity.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, just the description
of meeting with Ed Snowden in Moscow—how
did you do it?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, we we were speaking to
each other on an encrypted chat.
And, in fact, when I was spending some time
with John Cusack, and we spoke, and so we
just decided to go.
And it was all set up by the civil liberties
folks here.
And we went and met him.
I mean, I—
AMY GOODMAN: With Dan Ellsberg.
ARUNDHATI ROY: With Dan.
And it was—I think they were very pleased
to meet each other—John and I were more
like the wallpaper—because they had all
this spy talk going on, you know?
And it was really fascinating.
In fact, there’s much more to our encounter
than was published in this little book, Things
That Can and Cannot Be Said.
And I hope it’ll come out at some point,
because—
AMY GOODMAN: And how did Ed talk about being
in Moscow and wanting to come home to the
