AMY GOODMAN: Mary J. Blige, singing “Mighty
River” Sunday night at the Oscars, from
the film Mudbound.
Mary J. Blige made history last night by becoming
the first person to be nominated for best
original song and for best supporting actress.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, the 90th Academy Awards
were held Sunday night, where the majority
of the awards went to white men, despite years
of activism demanding increased racial and
gender diversity in Hollywood.
The awards show came on the heels of the #MeToo
and #TimesUp movements, which rocked Hollywood,
and after dozens of actresses came forward
to accuse Hollywood’s most powerful producer,
Harvey Weinstein, of rape, sexual assault
and harassment that stretched back decades.
While the #MeToo movement has shaken Hollywood
in recent months, women just won six Oscars
this year, compared to 33 for men.
AMY GOODMAN: Some notable winners on Sunday
included Mexican director Guillermo del Toro,
who took home the night’s two biggest prizes—best
picture and best director—for his film The
Shape of Water.
Jordan Peele became the first African American
to win for best original screenplay, for his
film Get Out.
During Sunday night’s awards, many presenters
celebrated immigrants, diversity, women’s
movements.
This is Lupita Nyong’o and Kumail Nanjiani
presenting the award for achievement in production
design.
LUPITA NYONG’O: Like everyone in this room
and everyone watching at home, we are dreamers.
We grew up dreaming of one day working in
the movies.
Dreams are the foundation of Hollywood.
And dreams are the foundation of America.
KUMAIL NANJIANI: And so, to all the dreamers
out there, we stand with you.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: One of the most powerful moments
of the night was when rapper Common and musician
Andra Day took to the stage to perform the
song “Stand Up for Something” from the
film Marshall, about the first black Supreme
Court justice, Thurgood Marshall.
This is how Common opened the performance.
COMMON: On Oscar night, this is the dream
we tell
A land where dreamers live and freedom dwells
Immigrants get the benefits
We put up monuments for the feminists
Tell the NRA they in God’s way
And to the people of Parkland, we say “Ashe”
Sentiments of love for the people
From Africa, Haiti to Puerto Rico.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re joined right now by two
guests: April Reign, creator of the viral
hashtag #OscarsSoWhite and senior director
of marketing for Fractured Atlas, a nonprofit
arts service group; Soraya Chemaly is a journalist
who covers the intersection of gender and
politics, director of the Women’s Media
Center Speech Project.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
April, let’s begin with you.
You were up late last night—I should say
this morning—as you tweeted for Color of
Change.
APRIL REIGN: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about your take on the Oscars
last night.
APRIL REIGN: Well, I think that it was an
important moment for both the #MeToo and the
#TimesUp movement; however, there’s still
a lot of work that needs to be done in front
of and behind the camera, when you had several
hours of pre-Oscars show with Ryan Seacrest
as the host, and yet he has been accused of
sexual assault.
And so, one wonders why you would even have
him standing in front, right?
We had Gary Oldman win last night, and there
were allegations about him, as well.
And so, there’s still a lot to be done,
and there seems to be some inconsistency with
respect to who is pushed to the side and who
is allowed to continue in their regular job.
In addition, with respect to the diversity
of the nominees, you know, as you said, Jordan
Peele was the first black person and just
the second person of color to win best original
screenplay in 90 years.
And so, the fact that we are still talking
about firsts is a problem, because what we
know is that representation matters and diversity
sells.
So, if Hollywood still chooses not to be more
inclusive, more diverse, both in front of
and behind the camera, they are literally
leaving money on the table.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Soraya Chemaly, your
thoughts on what you saw last night and, again,
that there were many more African Americans
and Latinos nominated, but not that many won
this year, and also the issue of how many—how
few women actually ended up winning awards?
SORAYA CHEMALY: Yes, I think that what we
saw was a little bit of window dressing.
The Oscar voters remain remarkably homogenous.
So, we’re talking over 90 percent male,
still more than three-quarters white.
And I think we see that reflected in the voting.
I mean, I do think it’s notable, for example,
there was the first—the best film, the winner,
had a female protagonist.
That’s the first time in 13 years.
And it’s not lost on many of us that she
actually was a character that didn’t speak,
which is somewhat ironic in the time of #MeToo.
So—
AMY GOODMAN: You’re talking about Shape
of Water.
SORAYA CHEMALY: Yes, Shape of Water.
And so, I think that there’s been this press.
People like April and her organization and
the Women’s Media Center and Geena Davis
and, you know, many people have been talking
about this for a long time.
And I think people are really fed up with
this idea that change takes time, and it has
to be incremental, because none of this is
new information.
And as April points out, these are profitable
films.
We know that films that have diverse casts,
that have women protagonists, do well at the
box office.
So it’s really not a matter of the economics.
What we’re talking about is really forcing
a change in the culture, which remains, I
think, recalcitrant.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, it’s really significant
that, you know, television knows, the media
knows what sells, as April and you were talking
about—diversity.
You could see that in the performances, in
fact, the entire production, this multicultural
extravaganza.
But if you looked very carefully at it, the
people who are actually coming up to win—the
people who are representing them were people
of color and women, but, one after another,
it was white men, you know, in the image of
Oscar himself, the award.
SORAYA CHEMALY: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: But I wanted to turn to Frances
McDormand, who took home the best actress
Oscar for her role in Three Billboards Outside
Ebbing, Missouri, about her daughter, who
was raped and killed.
That’s what the film is about.
But this is Frances McDormand receiving her
Oscar.
FRANCES McDORMAND: If I may be so honored
to have all the female nominees in every category
stand with me in this room tonight, the actors.
Meryl, if you do it, everybody else will.
Come on.
The filmmakers, the producers, the directors,
the writers, the cinematographer, the composers,
the songwriters, the—the—the—the—the
designers.
Come on.
OK, look around, everybody.
Look around, ladies and gentlemen, because
we all have stories to tell and projects we
need financed.
Don’t talk to us about it at the parties
tonight.
Invite us into your office in a couple days,
or you can come to ours, whichever suits you
best, and we’ll tell you all about them.
I have two words to leave with you tonight,
ladies and gentlemen: inclusion rider.
AMY GOODMAN: “Inclusion rider,” said Frances
McDormand.
As someone tweeted, the sound you’re hearing
right now is millions of people across the
world typing the words into Google, “inclusion
rider,” because she left it at that.
April Reign, explain.
APRIL REIGN: Absolutely.
So, an inclusion rider is basically something
with—a person of power, typically an actor,
an actress, can require in their contract,
so that either the cast and/or the crew will
also be diverse, or they will walk off the
set.
We saw that Brie Larson this morning on Twitter
said that she will require inclusion riders
in all of her contracts going forward.
And I think that’s a wonderful idea.
Fanshen Cox DiGiovanni and the USC Annenberg
Institute—they’re @Inclusionists on Twitter—have
been talking about this issue for quite some
time.
And I’m glad to see it getting some play.
It makes sense, because what we know is that,
again, the more diverse a cast and crew is,
the better the experience for everyone.
And we want to ensure that stories are being
told that represent the moviegoers and the
TV watchers.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I wanted to ask you, April,
about one of the Oscars, probably one of the
most surprising ones.
Kobe Bryant winning an Oscar for best animated
short stunned a lot of people, especially
given Kobe Bryant’s history also with allegations
of sexual assault.
APRIL REIGN: Right.
Well, you know, obviously, let’s remember
who the Oscar voters are, right?
They are overwhelmingly white and male and
older.
The Oscars had—the Academy has said that
they are going to double the number of people
of color and the number of women by 2020 within
its ranks.
And we see some of that happening.
The last two years, they have had their most
inclusive and diverse membership rolls ever.
So that’s great.
But again, Kobe Bryant is not the first and,
unfortunately, will not be the last person
who has been accused of allegations, and still,
you know, it seems to just brush off him,
and he won that award.
So, it feels that it’s a bit tainted.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, let’s ask Soraya Chemaly
that very question about Kobe Bryant, who
was accused by a hotel employee—this is
well over a decade ago, in Colorado—of raping
her.
He even said, in his statement, his agreement
with her, that he understands she did not
think this was consensual.
SORAYA CHEMALY: Yes.
She refused to testify in the criminal case,
and there was a follow-up civil case, and
part of the agreement was that he would write
a letter of apology in which he acknowledged
that she did not understand that she was consenting.
You know, the description of what happened
in the hotel room is fairly graphic.
And as April said, I think it’s tainted.
And it’s tainted in multiple ways throughout
the evening, because Gary Oldman, as well,
for example, was described by an ex-wife as
having assaulted her while she was trying
to call the police.
And so it’s difficult to look past these
allegations.
They’re quite vivid.
They are—they took place, both of them,
as you say, more than 10 years ago, 2001 and
2003, I believe.
And so there is a sense that the art of the
individual, which is a long story in and of
itself, trumps any of these actions that they
make.
And again, I think we really can’t separate
that from the industry’s demographics and
the fact that this industry shapes narratives
around power, consent, race, gender.
It’s not like other industries, except maybe
news media in that way.
It is a culture shaper.
And so, it does feel a little bit like a slap
in the face when you see these two awards,
for example, in a time when this is heightened—there’s
heightened awareness about these issues.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I want to turn to actors and
comedians Maya Rudolph and Tiffany Haddish,
who presented two awards at Sunday night’s
Oscars ceremony.
MAYA RUDOLPH: A few years ago, people were
saying that Oscars were so white.
And since then, some real progress has been
made.
TIFFANY HADDISH: Mm-hmm.
But we—when we came out together, we know
some of you were thinking, “Are the Oscars
too black now?”
MAYA RUDOLPH: But we just want to say, “Don’t
worry, there are so many more white people
to come tonight.
TIFFANY HADDISH: Mm-hmm, so many.
We just came from backstage, and there are
tons of them back there.
MAYA RUDOLPH: Tons of them.
TIFFANY HADDISH: Mm-hmm.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: April, your response?
APRIL REIGN: Well, the Oscars are still so
white, you know.
And I think you make a good point.
The Oscars are very deliberate.
So, if we remember two years ago, Chris Rock
was the host, right?
And that was sort of at one of the zeniths
of the #OscarsSoWhite movement, and so they
seemed to attempt to bring him in to placate
people of color.
But what we know, time and time again—this
is one of the reasons why I’ve started Aquarelle,
which is a multicultural media resource directory,
so that individuals on both sides of the camera
and both sides of the camera—excuse me,
both the camera and the curtain, are able
to self-identify in various marginalized categories,
including race, sexual orientation, gender,
age, disability and so on.
Very often we hear Hollywood saying, “Well,
we want to work with this particular community.
We just can’t find them.”
And we know that there are talented individuals
out there.
And so, this will provide the solution to
#OscarsSoWhite, because they’ll never again
be able to say that.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I wanted to ask you about
that, especially because the real jobs in
Hollywood—the actors are the window dressing,
but there are thousands and thousands of jobs
behind the scenes, behind the cameras, and
those are the ones that the industry, obviously,
would need to open up to, as well, right?
APRIL REIGN: That’s exactly right.
Everything starts on the page, and this for
TV or film, right?
So we need more diverse screenwriters to be
able to tell their stories, from their point
of view.
So, for example, we saw Jordan Peele last
night win best original screenplay for Get
Out.
That’s just one of many examples that are
out there.
So, Aquarelle will allow screenwriters and
boom operators and key grips and A-list and
B-list actors and actresses to sign up, and
then the studios and networks can choose amongst
these various categories, so that, for example,
we saw last night Daniela Vega, is a trans
woman playing a trans woman in the movie that
won best foreign film, a fantastic woman from
Chile.
That was an important moment that I think
people got glossed over a little bit.
AMY GOODMAN: Let’s go to Jordan Peele, who
won the Oscar for best original screenplay
for his movie Get Out, a horror thriller that
examines U.S. race relations.
JORDAN PEELE: This means so much to me.
I stopped writing this movie about 20 times,
because I thought it was impossible.
I thought it wasn’t going to work.
I thought no one would ever make this movie.
But I kept coming back to it, because I knew,
if someone let me make this movie, that people
would hear it and people would see it.
So I want to dedicate this to all the people
who raised my voice and let me make this movie.
… My mother, who taught me to love, even
in the face of hate, and to everybody who
went and saw this movie, everybody who bought
a ticket, who told somebody to buy a ticket,
thank you.
I love you for shouting out at the theater,
for shouting out at the screen.
Let’s get going.”
AMY GOODMAN: And we end it there with Jordan
Peele.
We want to thank April Reign, creator of the
hashtag that went viral, #OscarsSoWhite—we’ll
see if that changes in the future—and Soraya
Chemaly of the Women’s Media Center Speech
Project, speaking to us from Washington, D.C.
