AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we continue our debate
between Joe Cirincione, president of the Ploughshares
Fund, whose banner is “Building a Future
Free of Nuclear Threats,” and Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist Glenn Greenwald, co-founder of
The Intercept.
As we have this discussion today, President
Trump and President Putin are holding a summit,
at the invitation of President Trump, in Helsinki,
Finland, their first meeting for 90 minutes
alone, apparently only with their translators.
I’m wondering, Joe Cirincione, if this troubles
you, what this two-part meeting means, with
his aides and without?
JOE CIRINCIONE: What’s that about?
Why does Donald Trump feel that he has to
meet alone with Putin?
What is going on there?
I mean, that—when Ronald Reagan met with
Gorbachev at Reykjavik, at least he had George
Shultz with him.
The two of them, you know, were meeting with
Gorbachev and his foreign minister at the
time.
This is—it’s deeply disturbing.
It makes you feel that Trump is hiding something,
that he is either trying to make a deal with
Putin, reporting something to Putin.
I tell you, I know U.S. intelligence officials—I’m
probably going right into Glenn’s wheelhouse
here.
But U.S. intelligence officials are concerned
about what Donald Trump might be revealing
to the Russian leader, the way he revealed
classified information to the Russian foreign
minister when he met privately with him in
the Oval Office at the beginning of his term.
No, I don’t like it one bit.
AMY GOODMAN: You talked about the START treaty.
While you’re opposed to this summit right
now, you say that, you know, talking about
START is a good start.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain, for people who don’t
understand what it is, what needs to happen.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Sure.
AMY GOODMAN: What is the START treaty?
JOE CIRINCIONE: There are about 14,000 nuclear
weapons in the world.
This is a heck of a lot of nuclear weapons,
but it’s better than the 70,000 we used
to have during the height of the Cold War
in the 1980s.
We’ve come down.
And the reason we’ve come down is that U.S.
and Russian leaders have steadily made agreements
to reduce their arsenals, step by step, with
verified inspections.
The New START treaty is the most recent of
those agreements.
It limits both the United States and Russia
to a certain number of deployed long-range
systems.
The number is 1,550.
They can have no more than 1,550 hydrogen
bombs on missiles and bombers.
Now, that is a huge number.
That’s still more than enough to destroy
human civilization many times over.
But at least you’ve got that limit.
And the hope is that you keep going down,
down, down.
The risk is that that current treaty, the
New START treaty, that President Barack Obama
negotiated, will end.
It’s got an expiration date, like milk.
It’s going to expire in 2021—2021.
Now, the one good thing that could come out
of this summit is Putin and Trump agreeing
to extend it.
It’s real simple.
You don’t need new Senate ratification.
You don’t need the Duma to approve.
As long as the two leaders just agree to extend
the treaty, it can be done.
If they also, in the course of that, wanted
to lower the ceiling, to drop it down to,
say, a thousand long-range weapons each, that
would be a good thing.
I don’t expect that.
And the reason you want this is those kinds
of limits, those kinds of inspections give
you a certain amount of strategic stability,
give you some kind of break on the nuclear
arms race.
That’s why we do these treaties.
We’ve been doing them, limiting the arsenals,
ever since Richard Nixon in 1972.
Not extending it would be opening a path to
a dangerous new future.
AMY GOODMAN: So, I was surprised when I saw
the position that you took, Joe Cirincione,
because this issue of nuclear weapons as your
life work, that you didn’t feel at this
time that Putin and Trump should meet.
I mean, you just said—
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —you listened to Heidi Hautala,
the president of—vice president of the European
Parliament, the MP from Finland, who was part
of the mass protests.
And those protests are fiercely critical of
Trump and Putin.
But she does feel that this summit is a good
thing, to start the conversation.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah, I—
AMY GOODMAN: Why do you differ with her there?
JOE CIRINCIONE: I understand that feeling.
And I do agree that world leaders should meet.
It’s the meeting now, at this time, the
way Trump is meeting with him.
Again, you don’t need this summit to extend
New START.
You can do it in a phone call.
So, what’s happening is the validation that
this meeting is giving to Vladimir Putin,
this acceptance that it’s giving it to him,
to say that everything he’s been doing,
all his interference in the U.S. electoral
process, is OK, is fine.
And, in fact, that “I am closer to you,
Vladimir Putin, than I am to my allies in
the Western alliance.”
This is deeply troubling.
You have to understand, what Donald Trump
is doing is systematically taking apart the
liberal international order, the systems,
as we keep referring it to, of a rules-based
system, that we’ve put in place since World
War II to prevent conflicts of that kind.
He is systematically taking a wrecking ball
to these trade agreements, to these alliances,
to climate change accords, to anti-nuclear
treaties, agreements, like the one we had
with Iran.
And for what?
For what reason?
I don’t know if Putin has anything on Trump.
I don’t know if there’s some financial
or blackmail issue going on here.
But I do know that Trump has been doing everything
that Vladimir Putin wants him to.
If he were a paid agent of the Kremlin, he
wouldn’t be doing anything different than
what he’s doing right now.
AMY GOODMAN: Glenn Greenwald is rejoining
us from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
If you could respond to what Joe Cirincione
just said and also talk about these indictments
that came down, announced on Friday, against
12 Russian intelligence officials?
A number of Democrats, some Republicans are
saying, well, if this summit is taking place—which
they felt that he should cancel, after the
indictments—that he should demand that these
Russian intelligence officials be extradited
to the United States.
GLENN GREENWALD: I continue to be incredibly
frustrated by the claim that we hear over
and over, and that we just heard from Joe,
that Donald Trump does everything that Vladimir
Putin wants, and that if he were a paid agent
of the Russian government, there’d be—he
would be doing nothing different.
I just went through the entire list of actions
that Donald Trump has taken and statements
that he has made that are legitimately adverse
to the interest of the Russian government,
that Barack Obama specifically refused to
do, despite bipartisan demands that he do
them, exactly because he didn’t want to
provoke more tensions between the United States
and Russia.
Sending lethal arms to Ukraine, bordering
Russia, is a really serious adverse action
against the interest of the Russian government.
Bombing the Assad regime is, as well.
Denouncing one of the most critical projects
that the Russian government has, which is
the pipeline to sell huge amounts of gas and
oil to Germany, is, as well.
So is expelling Russian diplomats and imposing
serious sanctions on oligarchs that are close
to the Putin regime.
You can go down the list, over and over and
over, in the 18 months that he’s been in
office, and see all the things that Donald
Trump has done that is adverse, in serious
ways, to the interests of Vladimir Putin,
including ones that President Obama refused
to do.
So, this film, this movie fairytale, that
I know is really exciting—it’s like international
intrigue and blackmail, like the Russians
have something over Trump; it’s like a Manchurian
candidate; it’s from like the 1970s thrillers
that we all watched—is inane—you know,
with all due respect to Joe.
I mean, it’s—but it’s in the climate,
because it’s so contrary to what it is that
we’re seeing.
Now, this idea of meeting alone with Vladimir
Putin, the only way that you would find that
concerning is if you believed all that.
Now, the reality is there is this really interesting
dynamic, which is that President Trump is
surrounded by a lot of traditional Republican
foreign policy advisers, who have always been
extremely hawkish on Russia.
Amy mentioned earlier the fact that his own
director of national intelligence, Dan Coats,
who’s a far-right Republican, and therefore
extremely hawkish on Russia, is saying all
kinds of things about how Russia needs to
be treated more belligerently.
So he’s surrounded by people who are trying
to prevent him from doing what he, as the
elected president, wants to do and believes
we should do, which is forge better relations
with Russia.
And so, that’s why he wants to meet alone
with Putin, because he thinks that a personal
relationship with Putin, of the kind that
presidents have always tried to establish
with foreign leaders, is something that will
be in the interest of the policies that he
wants to pursue.
So, I think that, you know, if we continue
on with this kind of evidence-free fairytale
that Russia has installed a Manchurian candidate
in Washington and is controlling the strings
of the U.S. government, as exciting as that
is to believe, I think our discourse is going
to continue to go wildly off base.
As far as the indictments from Mueller are
concerned, it’s certainly the most specific
accounting yet that we’ve gotten of what
the U.S. government claims the Russian government
did in 2016.
But it’s extremely important to remember
what every first-year law student will tell
you, which is that an indictment is nothing
more than the assertions of a prosecutor unaccompanied
by evidence.
The evidence won’t be presented until a
trial or until Robert Mueller actually issues
a report to Congress.
And so, I would certainly hope that we are
not at the point, which I think we seem to
be at, where we are now back to believing
that when the CIA makes statements and assertions
and accusations, or when prosecutors make
statements and assertions and accusations,
unaccompanied by evidence that we can actually
evaluate, that we’re simply going to believe
those accusations on faith, especially when
the accusations come from George W. Bush’s
former FBI Director Robert Mueller, who repeatedly
lied to Congress about Iraq and a whole variety
of other issues.
So, I think there we need some skepticism.
But even if the Russians did everything that
Robert Mueller claims in that indictment that
they did, in the scheme of what the U.S. and
the Russians do to one another and other countries,
I think to say that this is somehow something
that we should treat as a grave threat, that
should mean that we don’t talk to them or
that we treat them as an enemy, is really
irrational and really quite dangerous.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to read Joe’s tweet
from July 13th, Joe Cirincione, president
of the Ploughshares Fund, which says, “Let
me get this straight.
Trump knew DOJ was to indict 12 Russian officials
& he still went to Europe & attacked NATO?
Still allowed House attack hearing on FBI?
Still called the investigation a 'rigged witch
hunt'?
And will still meet with the man who ordered
the thefts?”
Joe, you want to take it from there?
JOE CIRINCIONE: This is what’s so astonishing.
So, Trump knew that this indictment was coming
down, before he went to Europe, and still
he never says a word about it.
What he does is continue his attacks on our
alliances, i.e. he continues his attacks on
our free press, he continues his attacks on
FBI agents who were just doing their job,
and supports this 10-hour show hearing that
the House of Representatives had.
It’s really unbelievable that Trump is doing
these things and never says one word about
it.
He still has not said a word about those indictments.
You’ve got to understand, this can be very
disconcerting, if you’re on the left and
you’ve struggled your whole life for peace
and justice and security, and you’ve struggled
against the kind of policies the United States
has deployed around the world.
Hell, I got started as an antiwar radical
with the Vietnam War.
I understand that view.
I still hold that view.
It could become very disconcerting when you
see that there’s another power out there
doing—also doing odious things, and now
they’re screwing around with our system.
This is what Putin is doing.
He has penetrated our electoral system, the
basis of our democracy, the idea that we have
a vote to choose our leaders, our leaders
aren’t picked for us.
It’s not just the hacking of the emails,
with the help of WikiLeaks, that’s troubling.
These guys were also, as we now know from
the Mueller investigation and other sources,
going into electoral rolls.
They stole the identities, got information
on a half-a-million voters in some states.
What is going on with that?
And that’s what’s so worrying.
This is what Putin wants to do.
He wants to undermine the democratic model.
He doesn’t want to have any alternative
to his authoritarian rule in Moscow.
So that’s what I object to, not Trump meeting
with Putin, not Trump discussing things, but
only discussing certain things and never once
raising these issues, never once condemning
this kind of behavior.
AMY GOODMAN: Glenn Greenwald?
GLENN GREENWALD: That’s because the reality
is—and I don’t know if Donald Trump knows
this or doesn’t know this, has stumbled
into the truth or what—but the reality is
that what the Russians did in 2016 is absolutely
not aberrational or unusual in any way.
The United—I’m sorry to say this, but
it’s absolutely true.
The United States and Russia have been interfering
in one another’s domestic politics for since
at least the end of World War II, to say nothing
of what they do in far more extreme ways to
the internal politics of other countries.
Noam Chomsky was on this very program several
months ago, and he talked about how the entire
world is laughing at this indignation from
the United States—”How dare you interfere
in our democracy!”—when the United States
not only has continuously in the past done,
but continues to do far more extreme interference
in the internal politics of all kinds of countries,
including Russia.
The United States funds oppositional groups
inside Russia.
The United States sent advisers and all kinds
of operatives to try and elect Boris Yeltsin
in the mid-1990s, because they perceived,
accurately, that he was a drunk who would
serve the interests of the United States more
than other candidates who might have won.
The United States interferes in Russian politics,
and they interfere in their cyber systems,
and they invade their email systems, and they
invade all kinds of communications all the
time.
And so, to treat this as though it’s some
kind of aberrational event, I think, is really
kind of naive.
I think what’s really going on—and it’s
interesting to hear it from Joe, because he’s
actually been one of the best voices on the
left on this question.
He had another tweet recently that I actually
retweeted, because I agree with it so much,
where he said that until the Democratic Party
figures out how once again to become the voice
of the working class, we’re going to continue
to have more Donald Trumps all over the world.
That is the reality.
It wasn’t just Hillary Clinton in 2016 who
lost this election.
The entire Democratic Party has collapsed
as a national political force over the last
decade.
They’ve lost control of the Senate and of
the House and of multiple statehouses and
governorships.
They’re decimated as a national political
force.
And the reason is exactly what Joe said.
They become the party of international globalization.
They’re associated with Silicon Valley and
Wall Street billionaires and corporate interests,
and have almost no connection to the working
class.
And that is a much harder conversation to
have about why the Democrats have lost elections
than just blaming a foreign villain and saying
it’s because Vladimir Putin ran some fake
Facebook ads and did some phishing emails.
And I think that until we put this in perspective,
about what Russia did in 2016 and the reality
that the U.S. does that sort of thing all
the time to Russia and so many other countries,
we’re going to just not have the conversation
that we need to be having about what these
international institutions, that are so sacred—NATO
and free trade and international trade organizations—have
done to people all over the world, and the
reason they’re turning to demagogues and
right-wing extremists because of what these
institutions have done to them.
That’s the conversation we need to be having,
but we’re not having, because we’re evading
it by blaming everything on Vladimir Putin.
And that, to me, is even more dangerous for
our long-term prospects than this belligerence
that’s in the air about how we ought to
look at Moscow.
AMY GOODMAN: Joe Cirincione?
JOE CIRINCIONE: I agree with a whole lot of
what Glenn just said, up until this point—and
this is where I think we have to be a little
more sophisticated maybe or democratic in
our analysis.
Yes, our institutions, the ones we created
or our country created in our name, have done
horrible things around the world, including
our own government.
I mean, how many governments have we overthrown
in our lifetime, that we’ve seen the government
overthrown?
How many leaders have U.S. secret services,
intelligence agents assassinated?
Granted.
But that then doesn’t mean that you side
with these right-wing, nationalist, protofascist
groups that are arising around the world in
opposition to those institutions.
That doesn’t mean that you then ally with
Putin or that you excuse Putin’s behavior.
This is not an answer to this.
Just because they’re the enemy of your enemy
does not make them your friend.
And that’s what we have to do.
We have to have a balanced approach, again,
like the protesters in Finland.
Both of these leaders are wrong.
Both of these governments are wrong.
Both of these systems are wrong.
That’s tough to do, but I think it’s the
only way to go.
And I wish Glenn would talk a little more
about Putin’s assassination of journalists
in Russia and political opponents, as he does
about the excesses and even crimes of our
own government.
AMY GOODMAN: Glenn Greenwald, what about that,
the killing—Putin’s killing of journalists
and the poisoning of his opponents in Britain?
At least that’s what Britain seems to think,
that Russia, the state, is behind the Novichok
poisonings.
GLENN GREENWALD: Right.
I mean, Jeremy Corbyn stood up a couple of
months ago and pointed out that there’s
been actually no evidence presented about
that, and that we ought to have evidence for
that, and was vilified for doing that.
And I agree with Jeremy Corbyn that it doesn’t
make you a Putin sympathizer or apologist
to want evidence for those kinds of accusations.
Having said that, it’s certainly the case—and
I said this already, I think twice; I’ll
be happy to say it a third time; I said it
in Moscow last week, sitting next to an official
of the Russian government—that the Russian
government is authoritarian and oppressive
and is a government that is intolerant of
critics and dissidents, that imprisons them.
There’s accusations that they’ve killed
them.
There’s valid accusations that journalists
who are critical of the Russian government
have been killed.
What does that—what does that mean?
Where does that leave us?
Obviously, as an American citizen, I tend
to focus on the evils of my own government
and its allies, because that’s where I can
do the most good, where I can have most influence.
I don’t speak Russian.
I don’t have a Russian media outlet.
So I can sit here and stomp my feet and denounce
Putin all I want.
I don’t think it would have much consequence.
It’s also true that there are lots of governments
in the world, that the United States is closely
allied with, who also kill journalists and
kill dissidents.
I’ve named some of them.
Some of those governments are not just allied
with our government but are funding the think
tanks in Washington that exercise the most
influence on both political parties, including
one with which Joe, until very recently, was
affiliated.
So, yes, there are a lot of governments in
the world that are authoritarian and repressive.
The Putin government is one of them.
The United States government is also one of
them, in different ways, but in sometimes
similar ways.
But that doesn’t mean that this has any
kind of consequence or any kind of impact
on the issue of how countries ought to be
negotiating.
It was also true, Joe, during the Cold War,
what the far right was saying about the Soviet
Union.
During the Cold War, the Soviet Union was
domestically repressive.
They did put dissidents in Siberia.
They did kill journalists who were critical
of the Soviet regime.
But that never meant that we shouldn’t be
negotiating with the Soviet government, or
that by sitting down with Soviet leaders it
meant we were endorsing that kind of repression,
just as it doesn’t mean that we should now.
So, yeah, if somebody wants me to jump through
the hoop and say that Putin is oppressive,
I’ll be happy to do it all day.
I just don’t think it gets us anywhere,
that it accomplishes anything.
I think it’s incredibly easy to do, but
not very important.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to get your comments
on NATO.
Joe Cirincione, you’re president of the
Ploughshares Fund, a fierce anti-nuclear activist.
President Trump said today, between Russia
and the United States, there—they’ve got
90 percent of the nuclear weapons, and he
said that’s a bad thing, not a good thing.
I think you would agree with that.
But what about this criticism of NATO?
Again, the Democrats shoring up NATO and the
NATO allies, but what NATO is doing and whether
you see it as a provocateur when it comes
to Russia?
JOE CIRINCIONE: One of the greatest mistakes
we made in U.S. strategic policy—greatest
being the decision to invade Iraq—one of
the—but close to that was the decision to
expand NATO in the 1990s—unjustified, unwarranted
and ill-advised.
What that did was antagonize a Russia that
we were trying to make our friend.
We brought our military alliance right up
to their borders, including Poland and then
the Baltic states.
If you’re Russia, you’re looking at that,
and you are looking at the words of the Russian
president—of the U.S. president, but seeing
the actions of a military alliance that’s
moving right up to your border.
To do what?
That was a big mistake, and many of the people
who supported it at the time now regret that
decision.
Do we still need a NATO?
Yes, I think we do, but not the way it’s
structured.
Do we need to increase military expenditures?
No, I don’t think we do.
I think the demand that NATO allies spend
2 percent of their gross domestic product
on the military is arbitrary, irrational,
not necessarily true.
Is it true that Germany should spend 2 percent
on its military, rather than taking some of
those funds and devoting it to the immigration
crisis that we’re facing in Europe?
I think that would be a better use of our
money.
Does Donald Trump actually care about this,
when he raises this?
I don’t think he does.
I think this is just a talking point.
And you saw it demonstrated.
He starts the week saying they have to devote
2 percent.
They agree with him.
They reaffirm that goal.
And then the president says that’s not enough,
they have to devote 4 percent—a completely
fanciful figure.
No, I don’t think Donald Trump, on these
issues, has positions.
He just has moments.
And that’s what we’re seeing in Helsinki.
This is a moment for him.
I don’t think this is part of a grand strategy.
I think it’s all about Donald Trump and
him meeting with somebody that he admires,
that he wants to emulate, that he has an attraction
for on a very bizarre level.
AMY GOODMAN: Glenn Greenwald, do you think
NATO should be abolished?
And can you talk about the history of NATO
when it comes to Russia?
GLENN GREENWALD: Well, first of all, I wish
I had a transcript of everything Joe just
said, so that I could just read it, because
I think I agreed with pretty much every word.
And, you know, I actually think that first
part, that history part, is so important.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah.
GLENN GREENWALD: It isn’t just in the 1990s,
when NATO expanded eastward, in exactly the
way that Gorbachev was promised would not
happen.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yes.
GLENN GREENWALD: It’s continued.
I mean, even now, we continue to add former
Soviet states, very close or close to the
Russian border, including Macedonia, into
NATO.
And if you look at a map of NATO states—I
mean, just imagine if you were an American
living in the United States, and everywhere
you look you saw Warsaw Pact countries, including
on your own borders, in Canada and Mexico.
Of course you would feel threatened and besieged,
much the way that Iran feels besieged by U.S.
bases all surrounding it.
Now, that isn’t to justify anything that
Russia’s doing, but it does, I think—I
do think it’s important to sometimes look
at our own behavior and ask, “What is it
that we’re doing to contribute to some of
these tensions?
And what is it that we can do to reduce them?”
I also think that that last point that Joe
made is actually an important one, and it
does put people like me into a difficult position,
which is, you know, on the one hand, of course
I don’t think that Donald Trump is well
intentioned and is going to have the diplomatic
skill to negotiate complicated new agreements
of trade and of arms control with very sophisticated
regimes like the one in North Korea, or at
least complicated regimes in North Korea,
or in Russia.
On the other hand, as we’ve been discussing,
unfortunately, he’s the only game in town.
There is nobody else who’s saying that we
ought to question NATO.
Democrats, when you say we ought to question
NATO, act like you’ve committed blasphemy.
There is nobody else talking about tariffs
and the unfairness of free trade agreements,
except for a couple of fringe people within
the Democratic Party.
Just like this week, when he said that the
European Union was a foe, what he said was
something that for a long time on the left
was really kind of just uncontroversial orthodoxy,
which is that of course the European Union
is an economic competitor of the U.S., and
a lot of what their trade practices are do
harm the American worker.
We put up barriers against Chinese products
entering the U.S., and yet the EU buys them
and then sells them into the U.S., indirectly
helping China circumvent those barriers in
a way that directly harms U.S. workers.
This is something that people like Robert
Reich and Sherrod Brown and Bernie Sanders
have been talking about for a long time.
So it does make it very difficult when the
only person who’s raising these kinds of
issues and talking about these things—we
need to get along better with Russia and China,
we need to reform these old, archaic, destructive
institutions—is a megalomaniac, somebody
who’s completely devoid of any positive
human virtue, which is Donald Trump.
So it puts you in the position of kind of
trying to agree with him, while knowing that
he’s really not going to be able to do anything
about those in a positive way.
On the other hand, I don’t feel comfortable
being aligned with people like Bill Kristol
and David Frum and all of those Bush-era hawks
who are now the best friends of MSNBC and
the Democratic Party, either, because they’re
not well intentioned, either.
And so, what I try and do is use Donald Trump
and the kind of shifting alliances, that we
started off by talking about, to open up a
lot of the debates, that will remain closed
if you only look at U.S. politics through
the prism of the 2016 election and Republicans
versus Democrats.
And I think the most important point is the
one that, as I said, Joe made just this week,
which is that until the Democratic Party figures
out—and this is true not just of Democrats
but of center-left parties all throughout
Europe and here in Brazil—until they figure
out how again to reconnect, not with the highly
educated class and the rich and the metropolitan
enclaves, but with the working class of these
countries, that feel trampled on and ignored,
and for that reason are turning to demagogues,
we’re going to have more Donald Trumps and
worse Donald Trumps, not just in the United
States, but throughout the world.
And that is, for me, the greatest problem
that we face politically.
AMY GOODMAN: Joe Cirincione, president of
the Ploughshares Fund, Glenn pointed out in
Part 1 of our discussion that you quit ThinkProgress.
Can you explain why you quit, and talk about
the United Arab Emirates funding?
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah, these are actually two
different things.
I’ve been president of Ploughshares Fund
for 10 years.
I used to be vice president of the Center
for American Progress.
ThinkProgress is this very effective—a media
operation, blog, news commentary, that the
Center for American Progress has as one of
its projects, one of its programs.
I left as vice president for CAP, not because
of the reasons Glenn cited, but simply because
Ploughshares Fund offered to make me president.
And I wanted to try to concentrate—
GLENN GREENWALD: No, but, Joe—but, Joe,
just to correct—Joe, if I could just correct
one thing?
JOE CIRINCIONE: Sure, go ahead.
GLENN GREENWALD: I didn’t say that you left
CAP for that reason.
You’re absolutely right.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yeah, yeah.
GLENN GREENWALD: And I don’t think I said,
and if I did, I apologize.
But I don’t think I did say that you left
CAP for that reason.
I was talking about the recent decision by
Judd Legum, the longtime editor-in-chief of
ThinkProgress—
JOE CIRINCIONE: Oh, yes.
GLENN GREENWALD: —to leave there, and then
you saying you were doing it, as well, and
specifically cited one of his reasons for
leaving, which is things like Goldman Sachs—
JOE CIRINCIONE: Oh, yes, yeah.
GLENN GREENWALD: —sponsors newsletters,
and you said there’s too much corporate
and government money in places like CAP and
ThinkProgress, and that that was the reason
you were leaving ThinkProgress, not the reason
you left CAP a decade ago.
Just to be clear, that’s what I was talking
about.
JOE CIRINCIONE: Yes.
Well, I’m not leaving ThinkProgress, but,
yeah, so, Judd, who’s been the editor there
for some time, is leaving to start his own
project.
I forget what it’s called now, but I just
signed up for his newsletter.
And one of the things he said as he did this
was that his newsletter is not going to be
funded by Wall Street money.
And I agreed with that.
And this is where Glenn and I also agree.
Something very pernicious has happened in
Washington over the last 20 years.
I’ve been in this town 35 years.
I’ve been at a number of think tanks, running
projects.
And the think tank world is very different
now than it was 20 years ago.
There’s been this infusion of corporate
money, this infusion of government money,
both our own government—Department Defense,
Department of Energy, etc.—but also Saudi
Arabia, United Arab Emirates, countries with
a lot of money to spend, who have methodically
gone in and, I believe, compromised the independence
of these think tanks.
It’s not so insidious as they’re telling
them, “Don’t do this,” or, “Do this.”
It’s more like there are some ways they’re
just taking up the space.
They fund all these studies, all these departments,
to basically do a lot of work on fairly innocuous
subjects.
And what you don’t see is the kind of hard-hitting,
independent analysis the think tanks used
to do.
And I find that all of the major think tanks
in this town are now so enthralled with the
amount of money they can get, the amount of
expansion they can do, the kinds of buildings
they can build, with this corporate and government
money, that they’ve actually lost sight
of the reason they were started in the first
place, which is to speak truth to power and
to provide an independent, objective analysis
and to provide solutions to some of the core
issues we face.
