AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, as we continue our exclusive
conversation with Army whistleblower and transgender
activist Chelsea Manning.
On Tuesday, Democracy Now!’s Juan González
and I spoke to Chelsea Manning in her first
live TV interview.
She was released from prison last May after
serving seven years for leaking a trove of
documents about Iraq and the Afghan wars and
the State Department to WikiLeaks in 2010.
Manning is now running for U.S. Senate in
Maryland.
I began Part 2 of interview by playing a clip
of John Bolton, who President Trump has named
to be his next national security adviser.
He was asked about Manning in the 2012 BBC
film WikiLeaks: The Secret Life of a Superpower.
RICHARD BILTON: What do you think of Bradley
Manning?
JOHN BOLTON: I think he committed treason.
I think he should be prosecuted to the fullest
extent of the law.
RICHARD BILTON: What does that mean?
JOHN BOLTON: Well, treason is the only crime
defined by our Constitution, and it says treason
shall consist only of levying war against
the United States or adhering to their enemies,
giving them aid and comfort.
And he gave our enemies a lot of aid and comfort.
RICHARD BILTON: So what should happen to him?
JOHN BOLTON: Well, he should be prosecuted.
And if he’s found guilty, he should be punished
to the fullest extent possible.
RICHARD BILTON: And what is that?
JOHN BOLTON: Death.
RICHARD BILTON: You think he should be killed.
JOHN BOLTON: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: That was John Bolton, the next
national security adviser for President Trump,
speaking in 2012.
I asked Chelsea Manning if she felt threatened
by his statement.
CHELSEA MANNING: I feel threatened, but as
any other person should feel threatened.
You know, are these positions surprising?
No.
You know, anybody who challenges these people,
anybody who challenges their power, is a threat
to them.
And so, yeah, they’re going to go after
people, and they’re going to say that everybody
deserves the death penalty.
I mean, it’s going to be this expanding,
broadening net, you know.
John Bolton, as U.N. ambassador, bolstered
the neoconservative movement in building,
you know, the—this was during the time of
the CIA and expanding into torture.
Like, they’re trying to cover themselves
up, and they’re trying to protect themselves,
and they’re trying to—of course they’re
going to—they’re going to claim that anybody
who challenges them is a traitor.
Everybody who goes against them is against,
you know, the state.
And anybody who’s against them is worthy
of, you know, going away.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, let’s go to Vice President
Pence, just last year, describing you as a
traitor on Fox News.
VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT MIKE PENCE: Private Manning
is a traitor and should not have been turned
into a martyr, as Senator Cotton said.
Private Manning’s actions compromised our
national security, endangered American personnel
down range, compromised—compromised individuals
in Afghanistan who were cooperating with our
forces, by leaking 750,000 documents to WikiLeaks.
AMY GOODMAN: What was your response to Pence
saying you endangered people, you know, presumably
referring to the redacting of names in the
documents that came out in WikiLeaks?
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, the government’s
been using all of this rhetoric for seven
years.
And for three-and-a-half years, they said
it, and then they went—they had to deal
with a courtroom, and they couldn’t bring—they
couldn’t bring a shred of evidence to the
courtroom.
Instead, they merely said, “Oh, could have.”
It was all hypotheticals.
So, these are just talking points.
They’re just hot air.
It’s been continuing.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to read from BuzzFeed.
“In the seven years since WikiLeaks published
the largest leak of classified documents in
history, the federal government has said they
caused enormous damage to national security.
But a secret, 107-page report, prepared by
a Department of Defense task force and newly
obtained by BuzzFeed News, tells a starkly
different story: It says the disclosures were
largely insignificant and did not cause any
real harm to US interests.”
Chelsea Manning?
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, that’s what we’ve
been saying this whole time.
You know, they agreed with us.
But instead, during the trial, they said “could
have.”
It was all about maybe.
You know, what crime is it where you could
have?
You know, if I threw this rock, I could have
broken a window.
You know, and, of course it wasn’t going
to cause any damage.
And the whole notion of national security,
it’s a word that gets—it’s a phrase
that gets used a lot in politics.
But do you know what the definition of “national
security” is?
The definition of “national security”
is that—anything of and relating to the
national defense, meaning the military, or
foreign relations, meaning the State Department.
Anything can be construed as being national
security.
Those are—that’s an incredibly broad definition.
And “interests” is—what is “interests”?
Interests is whatever they want.
So, if it’s whatever these institutions
want, and it’s against their interests,
which is against our interests, as people,
then it’s a threat to national security.
So, in a sense, everyone who goes against
them is a threat to national security.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’m wondering—subsequent
to your revelations, there was the revelations
of Edward Snowden, the enormous impact it
had on the American public in terms of understanding
the surveillance state.
Your advice to other people who are in network
securities in other parts of the world in
terms of potentially being whistleblowers,
and the importance of being a whistleblower—
CHELSEA MANNING: Yes.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —when you believe that something
is unjust or is wrong, that an institution
that they’re associated with is committing?
What would be your advice to potential whistleblowers?
CHELSEA MANNING: You know, you’re in a better
position to understand what the issue is and
what you have to do.
I can’t give people specific advice.
What I can say is that there’s a lot of—and
a lot of people in government and a lot of
people in these positions already know that
there are no safe channels to go through.
Like we’ve had—you know, like I have a
friend of mine, you know, Jesselyn Radack,
who’s been on this show a lot, who has defended
people, who have gone through the proper channels,
from prosecution and from being targeted.
The Insider Threat Program, whenever you—whenever
you raise a concern, you are automatically
listed under the Insider Threat Program as
a potential threat, and placed under surveillance,
under electronic surveillance or surveillance
by your supervisors.
That said, there are no safe channels.
You have to make a decision as to what to
do.
And that’s my advice.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to turn to Michael Ratner,
the late Michael Ratner, one of the founders
of the Center for Constitutional Rights, who
appeared on Democracy Now!
in 2013, shortly after attending part of your
court-martial, when you accepted responsibility
for leaking information when leaking documents
to WikiLeaks.
MICHAEL RATNER: It was one of the more moving
days I’ve ever spent in a courtroom.
You’ve heard from Bradley Manning once before,
which was when he testified about the torture
that happened to him.
I was crying through that.
This was amazing.
I mean, he actually didn’t stand; he sat
at the defense table.
And he read his 35-page statement, which,
sadly, we do not have a copy of, even though
there’s nothing classified about that statement.
And hopefully we’ll get it, because that
is something that should be taught in every
school in America.
He went through each of the releases that
he took responsibility for, that you mentioned
on the air, and he told us why he did it.
And in each case, you saw a 22-year-old, a
23-year-old, a person of incredible conscience,
saying, “What I’m seeing the United States
do is utterly wrong.
It’s immoral.
The way they’re killing people in Iraq,
targeting people for death, rather than working
with the population, this is wrong.”
And in each of these—each of these statements
tells you about how he was doing it politically.
AMY GOODMAN: That was the late Michael Ratner,
one of the founding attorneys of the Center
for Constitutional Rights, in 2013, coming
from your trial and coming on Democracy Now!
the next day.
Your thoughts on what Michael said?
And would you do this again, if you had the
chance?
CHELSEA MANNING: Look, I can’t go back and
change history.
I can’t reflect on every single moment that
I’ve gone through my entire life.
And I reflect a lot on all kinds of decisions
throughout my life, mostly to do with relationships
that I’ve had and jobs that I’ve held
in the past and decisions that I’ve made,
especially in regards to college.
Should I have stayed in college?
Should I have stayed at Starbuck’s?
That said, this couldn’t have happened any
other way.
It happened because of who I am and the values
that I have and the time that I had and the
means, the technology, that was available.
And also, it almost didn’t happen.
You know, I tried to—I tried to reach out
through conventional journalists, if you will.
And, you know, the technical complexities,
they just couldn’t work around.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, wait for one second.
Could you explain exactly what you did, for
people who aren’t familiar with your course?
When you were in Iraq, you got a hold of these
documents.
You saw what you described as the horror documented
in the government’s own pages, and wanting
to get it out, coming back to the United States.
It wasn’t WikiLeaks you went to first.
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
Of course not.
I mean, you know, they weren’t a thing yet.
There weren’t a name.
And, I mean, like I ran out of time.
I didn’t have a whole lot of time.
I had about 12 days, and three of those days
were taken out by a snowstorm.
AMY GOODMAN: Before you were going back to
Iraq.
CHELSEA MANNING: Correct.
AMY GOODMAN: So you turned to The New York
Times.
You tried to reach out to them.
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, I reached out to The
Washington Post first.
AMY GOODMAN: And they didn’t want the documents,
or they did?
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, it’s technology.
Technology is the problem.
You know, SecureDrop is something that came
out of all of this.
It’s now possible to reach out to The Washington
Post and use these tools.
Journalists didn’t really have an understanding
as to the technical problems of the time.
AMY GOODMAN: Why you couldn’t just send
it to them—
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —by regular email.
CHELSEA MANNING: Exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: Why Washington Post, did you
go to?
CHELSEA MANNING: All the President’s Men.
AMY GOODMAN: Exposing Watergate.
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, that was my reference,
was a movie.
So…
AMY GOODMAN: Chelsea, one of the issues that
we’ve covered for years, when you were in
prison, was your battle against the prison
authorities around their treatment of you
as a trans woman.
Talk about what happened, how they treated
you and the whole issue of healthcare for
trans prisoners around the country.
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
So, systems, like prison and the military
and police, treat trans people—I mean, governments
do this as a whole.
They treat us as an administrative problem,
to be solved somehow.
And it’s at the whim of some—you know,
usually some authority or some legal position
that we have our entire lives be policed.
You know, there’s what uniforms you wear,
what type of clothing you have access to,
how much healthcare you get.
And these are all determinations that are
being made arbitrarily, whether it’s, you
know, giving us healthcare and telling us
which types of healthcare are available or,
you know, what that is.
So, the problem is, is that these are systemic
problems.
And one of the more deeper systemic problems
is the fact that trans people are disproportionately
imprisoned.
You know, we’re one of the most targeted
groups, usually for petty offenses, like sex
worker-related offenses and just the—we’re
policed based on gender and how we look and
how we act—you know, the walking while trans,
if you will.
And we need to stop—like that needs to be
more of a focus, is: Why do we have so many
trans people in our prison system?
Why do we have so many people who are trans
in jail?
And, you know, why don’t we focus on dismantling
the prison system, that is—in which we’re
placed in these situations?
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain your own experience,
what you were fighting for?
You were held in an all-male prison.
Is that right?
At Fort Leavenworth.
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
And most trans people are held in one of—that
differs from their true gender.
AMY GOODMAN: You were fighting for hormone
therapy.
Talk about that battle and ultimately winning
it.
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, well, I barely won
it.
You know, I got access to hormones.
But, I mean, it was arbitrary.
It was based on some signature, you know,
and only after a major lawsuit.
You know, it wasn’t really a victory, in
the sense of, you know, I get access to something,
but I had to fight for it.
I had to fight tooth and nail for it.
And so many people still have to fight to
get just basic access, basic access to healthcare,
especially in prison.
AMY GOODMAN: What about the clothes you were
forced to wear in prison, and also the length
of your hair, and why this mattered so much
to you?
CHELSEA MANNING: Well, because, I mean, I
couldn’t grow my hair.
So, I’ve always wanted to grow out my—I’ve
always wanted to grow out my hair.
It’s always been shortly cropped, but I
was kept at a military standard.
But it was also the notion of like an institution
telling me, “Hey”—you know, because
it was like this notion of like, “Yeah,
we know you’re pretending to be a woman.
So we’re giving you some things, because
we’re legally required to do so.
But we’re going to make it—we’re going
to do everything that we can, in other regards,
to make sure that you’re not treated as
who you actually are.”
So, it’s this notion of value.
Like I value who I am, and I value my identity,
and as all of us should.
And we should be able to defend ourselves
and fight back.
And that was what drove me, day to day, while
I was in these circumstances, and, you know,
the clothing and whatever.
But yeah, like, you know, and a lot of this
is stuff in the past for me.
You know, a lot of this is things that—where
I’ve come from.
But, you know, I’m more focused on what—I’m
more focused on what’s facing us today—
AMY GOODMAN: Right.
CHELSEA MANNING: —what we’re facing right
now.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, certainly, that would be
something that trans prisoners are faced with
and that you—
CHELSEA MANNING: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —would, hopefully, make a difference
in, if you became senator of the United States.
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, I’m hoping to get
trans people out of prison.
That’s the objective.
It’s not about making conditions better.
It’s not about making more or better prisons.
It’s about making—closing them down and
releasing people.
So, we should be releasing trans prisoners.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: You’ve talked about you
looking to get criminal justice reform, anti-military—
CHELSEA MANNING: Not reform, dismantling the
criminal—we need to restructure and dismantle
the criminal justice system.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Dismantling the criminal justice
system and ending the military involvements
around the world, and also immigration.
Could you talk about some of the other issues
that you would consider—you’d want the
voters to consider when they vote for you?
CHELSEA MANNING: Healthcare.
We need to have basic access to healthcare
for everyone.
And we shouldn’t have our healthcare policed
by the state, either.
You know, we’ve seen this in—we’ve seen
people like go, who are free to go to hospitals,
because of who they are or what their background
is or what their legal status is.
So, we need to remove—we need to provide
healthcare for everybody.
It should be free.
It should be accessible.
It should be—and there should be a doctor-patient
relationship that is unaffected by—you know,
the state should not be intervening into the—you
know, into who you are and why.
You know, you should just be getting access.
AMY GOODMAN: Healthcare for all.
CHELSEA MANNING: Healthcare for all, but unconditionally.
It’s not—you don’t have to fill out
forms or get—or have the state police you
based on—you know, like you should feel
safe to go to a hospital or to get healthcare.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about your activism
around anti-fascism, and also how you’re
going to conduct your campaign?
The primary is coming up soon.
It’s in June.
What are you going to do to run throughout
Maryland to get your name out there and your
positions out there, throughout the state?
Not that your name isn’t known, but as a
senator for Maryland.
CHELSEA MANNING: So, yeah, so I’ve been—I’ve
been, you know, meeting with activists and
organizers locally.
I’ve been more on a listening tour, because
I want to hear their—what they have to say,
what their positions are, what the concerns
are, and—before I started to publicly, you
know, like roll out there.
Obviously, you have to file pretty early in
the Maryland primary.
So, a lot of the work is going to come over
the next few months.
And being on this program is a part of that.
So, I would say that my activism and who—and
like how I’m running are hand in hand.
I mean, I’m running as an activist.
Like this is—like, I’m not running to
have a career as a senator.
I’m here as a continuation of my career
as an activist who pushes against these systemic
problems and these systemic structures.
You know, I’m not willing to get entrenched
into the circle of lobbying and the network
of, you know, revolving-door politics.
I mean, I’ve already been excluded.
You know, the language that they use excludes
me, by default.
You know, the I’m not—you know, I’m
inexperienced, or I’m—you know, think
about that for a second, inexperienced.
Like what—like Ben Cardin has been in politics,
Maryland politics, for 40 years.
He’s been behind a desk that whole time.
What experience can he bring to the table?
I mean, I have life experience.
I’ve been out there.
I’ve been homeless.
I’ve been to prison.
I’ve been to war.
These are what I consider experience.
So, we need to start pushing back.
And the way we do that is by focusing on the
systemic problems, like the criminal justice
system, immigration and healthcare.
AMY GOODMAN: What would you do with the prisons
of the United States?
CHELSEA MANNING: We need to start closing
them.
We need to start closing prisoners—we need
to start releasing prisoners and then closing
prisons down.
No more of—we should put a moratorium on
construction, first off, and then start closing
prisons.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And in terms of immigration,
what would you do?
CHELSEA MANNING: Abolish ICE.
Abolish the CBP.
AMY GOODMAN: And our borders?
CHELSEA MANNING: I mean, borders are imaginary
lines.
They’re something that we draw, you know,
through the middle of a desert.
We invented the border.
It wasn’t there previously.
People should be able to move freely about
the world.
AMY GOODMAN: Would you abolish the NSA?
Your state, Maryland, the state you’d represent
as senator, represents the largest intelligence
agency in the world—
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —far, far larger, for example,
than the CIA—the National Security Agency,
where you were actually court-martialed.
CHELSEA MANNING: Right.
You know, and the National Security Agency
collects an enormous amount of data and information.
But it’s more of these policing agencies
that I’m focused on.
You know, ICE is—ICE has more law enforcement
power than any other federal law enforcement
agency.
And it’s only a matter of time.
And we’ve already seen people who are assisting,
you know, people crossing the border and assisting
people that, you know, be arrested and charged
with federal offenses.
They’re going to expand the net of their
federal law enforcement powers over the next
few years.
They’ve already said that they’re going
to do this.
ICE didn’t exist 15—or ICE didn’t exist
18 years ago.
It’s a brand-new institution.
It didn’t exist whenever I was a teenager.
It should go away.
We don’t need ICE.
We don’t need a lot of these gigantic, you
know, police agencies that are singularly
focused on deporting people.
AMY GOODMAN: If you were a senator of the
United States, and even as not as senator
of the United States, as an activist, what
are you pushing for when it comes to the military?
CHELSEA MANNING: We spend 600—we spend almost
$600 billion a year on our defense budget.
And there’s various other portions that
go into the paramilitary portions of our government.
We need to spend this money somewhere else.
It needs to be—you know, we have other issues.
We don’t need to have 800 bases all across
the world.
We don’t need to have the—we already have
the largest system in the world.
We don’t need more.
And they’re always asking for more.
Isn’t that funny?
Like, it’s already the largest.
We’re already spending $600 billion a year.
And yet, you know, it’s on boondoggle projects,
like the F-35, you know?
We’re going to stop that.
I’m going to do everything I can to make
sure that defense funding bills for more stuff
don’t happen.
AMY GOODMAN: What gives you hope, as we wrap
up this interview?
CHELSEA MANNING: What gives me hope is the
people I have to my left and right, the people
that I’m in solidarity with, when I’m—especially
when I’m doing activism, and especially
whenever I’m in these meetings, the people
who have been with me this whole time, the
people who are fighting with me and the people
that I know will be by my side, whatever happens.
AMY GOODMAN: Army whistleblower and trans
activist Chelsea Manning, freed from military
prison after seven years last May.
Her 35-year sentence was commuted by President
Obama.
She’s now running in the Democratic primary
for U.S. Senate in Maryland.
Go to democracynow.org for Part 1 of our exclusive
interview.
It was the full broadcast yesterday.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, charges will not be brought
against the two white officers who killed
Alton Sterling.
We’ll speak with his children’s lawyers.
Stay with us.
