This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we turn to Part 2 of
our discussion about the sentencing of Bill
Cosby.
A Pennsylvania judge sentenced comedian Bill
Cosby to three to 10 years in prison for aggravated
indecent assault on Tuesday, labeling him
a sexually violent predator.
After the sentencing.
Cosby’s publicist and spokesperson Andrew
Wyatt compared Judge Steven O’Neill’s
sentence to the sexual assault accusations
against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.
What is going on in Washington today with
Judge Kavanaugh is part of the sex war that
Judge O’Neill, along with his wife, are
a part of.
In April, a jury found Bill Cosby guilty of
three counts of aggravated indecent assault
for drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea
Constand, one of 60 women who have accused
Cosby of sexual assaults dating back decades.
Andrea Constand was the only case still within
the statute of limitations.
For more, we continue our interview with Lili
Bernard.
She’s a visual artist and an actor.
She accused Bill Cosby of drugging and raping
her in the early ’90s when he mentored her
in preparation for her guest-starring role
on The Cosby Show.
It’s great to have you with us.
Thank you so much for continuing this conversation.
So, talk about—I mean, what I was most struck
by yesterday in the courtroom are all of the
women who were there.
This was a trial that centered around one
woman, Andrea Constand.
And tell us who she was.
Tell us her story, because you’ve all come
to know each other so well.
Right.
I mean, I don’t want to speak to her—for
her.
But what I can say is that she has so much
courage and so much support in her family
that she was able to file a police report
within the statute of limitations.
Now, to be clear, she was one of the leaders
of athletics at Temple University, which was
Bill Cosby’s alma mater.
She, too, had a mentoring relationship with
Bill Cosby.
I mean, he is their most prized alum—
Right.
—at Temple University.
And what was so haunting to sit there in the
courthouse and listen to her testimonies,
this April and then last July, was that so
much of what she experienced paralleled what
I experienced and the others experienced.
So we found ourselves weeping in not only
empathy for our survivor sister but also in
familiarity.
And it was difficult, because when she was
describing his MO, it triggered intense reaction
emotionally and flashbacks.
So, it was not easy.
But yeah, he’s a very, very smart manipulator.
Well, explain how all of these women—we’re
talking about a number around 60—ended up—
Sixty-three.
—sixty-three—coming together.
Talk about how this happened over the years.
Right.
Why don’t we start with your own experience—
OK.
—in the 1990s?
Yeah.
Well, in the 1990s I was a working actor prior
to appearing on The Cosby Show as a guest
star.
I had starred in a BBC film opposite Ving
Rhames, Eriq La Salle.
I co-starred in a Stephen King mini-series.
And I was getting rave reviews for that work
in Variety magazine, in The Sunday Telegraph.
And then I did The Cosby Show.
And once Bill Cosby gained my total trust,
through a paternal mentorship, he drugged
me and he raped me.
And this halted a successful acting career.
It was a detour, and—
You met him in an open cast call for The Cosby
Show?
Yeah, absolutely.
It was an open call for stand-ins.
And I didn’t want to be a stand-in, so I
wrote a little note saying, you know, “Bill
Cosby, it’s an honor to be here.
But I would like a principal speaking role
on your show.”
And he called me back instantly and began
mentoring me and really encouraging me, really
supporting intellectually and artistically
my creative career, because I was a thespian.
You know, I went to Cornell University, and
I studied theater, and then I studied with
Sonia Moore, who was a student of Stanislavski.
I was always in theater.
He was so encouraging.
And so, not only was it just such a tremendous
privilege to be on a show that has done so
much to shift culture’s perception of the
black family, but then, you know, also to
be in a studio environment where so many people
working were black people—the cast, the
crew, the camera, the stage managers, hair
and makeup, editors—you never saw this,
so it was like a totally eclectic, exciting
environment to be in.
It was not just about Bill Cosby.
So that made the betrayal even more difficult,
not just that he referred to me as his daughter,
as a child, and that he enamored my family.
You know, he met my father at the studios,
my cousins, my mom over the phone, and told
them how much he cared for me.
So there was all this cognitive dissonance
that made it even more difficult to accept
the horrors of what this man did to me, the
betrayal.
Would you call this grooming?
Absolutely.
That’s the word: grooming.
And I was unaware that it was grooming.
I thought that he was just a great man.
I thought—you know, I was mistaking him
for Dr. Huxtable.
And Dr. Huxtable was just a mask, as the district
attorney, Kevin Steele, said, that has now
been lifted off, you know, and now we are
revealing—you know, now we know that he
is a depraved, lying, coward serial rapist
who has been convicted and is now serving
time in state penitentiary.
I wanted to turn to you, Lili Bernard, in
your guest-starring appearance on The Cosby
Show.
This is in the eighth and final season.
When the contractions reach eight minutes
apart, that’s when you call me.
Now, what did I just say?
Call you every eight minutes.
Dr. Huxtable, your lab reports are waiting.
OK, thank you.
Well, I guess I’m off.
Yes, in more ways than one.
… Mrs. Minifield, I told you to call me
when the contractions are eight minutes apart.
I know, but they jumped from 10 to four!
They jumped?
Last time I checked, they were 10 minutes.
Now they’re coming every four minutes.
Good.
Now, Mrs. Minifield, listen to me carefully.
Is your husband there?
He’s running errands.
But I can leave him a note.
That’s Bill Cosby playing Dr. Huxtable,
so beloved, the star of The Cosby Show, and
Lili Bernard.
And this is really hard for you to watch,
Lili.
Yeah, sorry.
I didn’t expect to get emotional.
I’m sorry.
That was the most difficult job I’ve ever
done.
And just a couple of months prior, I had to
come home drugged and sexually assaulted by
Bill Cosby to my boyfriend at the time, who’s
been my husband, still.
And we both confronted Bill Cosby, and we
told him we would report him to the police
and go to the hospital and find out what he
slipped into my sparkling apple cider.
And he threatened serious consequences to
our lives.
And it takes me back to a moment.
I was literally having difficulty breathing
while I was doing that role.
I was hyperventilating, and it was very frightening,
and I thought, “How am I going to stand?
How am I going to stand and perform this,
and in front of a crowd of hundreds of people
in the live audience?”
And I’ll never forget that at the end, when
the audience was clapping, he looked at me,
and he said, “Fooled them again.
Fooled them again.”
And that was like a jab to me, you know?
And I know what that meant, “Fooled them
again,” that the audience did not know the
Bill Cosby that I knew, that the Bill Cosby
that I knew was not Dr. Huxtable.
It was a phony philanthropist.
And so, looking at that was really hard.
And there was a big blow-up the night before
we shot that, during the dress rehearsal.
And I have Cosby Show production assistants
who testify about this, that he—we had a
huge confrontation about the sexual assault,
and he blew up, and he threatened me, on the
sound stage, telling me that he would—that
if I didn’t come to his house again, he
would fire me.
And it was just tremendous.
Did you—
Looking at the—
Did you say it on the stage set with other
people there?
On the stage set—well, the conversation—what
he said during the conversation, he said,
“Look, Bernard, if you don’t come to my
house right now and finish rehearsing this,
you’re fired.
You’re through.
It’s over.”
And I—and the crew, all around us, they
were used to his rageful fits, because he
notoriously would have rageful fits.
They started quickly rolling up their wires
and trying to like disseminate like cockroaches
to get away.
And I said, “I told you I’m never going
to your house again, Bill Cosby.
That’s not going to happen.”
And then, in front of them, he said—OK,
I’m going to take out the expletives, but
in front of them, he said—he yelled.
He got up, and he yelled, slammed down the
script and said, “This is not about me trying
to [bleep] your A anymore, Bernard.
You’re coming to my house right now, or
you’re fired.
You’re fired!”
And it was nuts.
And so, we had this huge blow-up.
But that’s why I started crying, because
it reminded me it was such a difficult job,
and the whole week he was abusing me.
The whole week.
And during the taping, my husband, who was
my boyfriend at the time, stayed with me the
whole day, because he was so oppressively
watching me.
He made us have lunch with him in the dressing
room with Jesse Jackson, his friend that was
there.
It was just horrible, horrible.
And so, did you go to the place?
I didn’t, because he threatened serious
consequences to my life before I even got
home to speak to my boyfriend, before we confronted
him.
I escaped, literally, in a shouting match
to him, telling him that he was not only a
rapist, but that this is incest, because he
called me his daughter, that I was going to
call the police.
And he yelled at me back, that “You call
the police, Bernard, and I will erase you.
I will erase you.
Do you hear me?
All it takes is one phone call, and you better
watch your back.
And who are they going to believe?
You or me?
Huh, Bernard?”
And he gave me all sorts of other threats.
I mean, we were just yelling back and forth.
He said he was going to tell all of Hollywood
that I was nothing but a no-good actress and
a whore trying to sleep my way to the top.
And, you know, he told me that I was dead,
I didn’t exist.
And it was just—it was mafioso, Amy.
That’s what it was.
Menacing.
And so, when did you hear about any other
woman’s experience with Cosby?
That’s a great question.
While it was happening, I knew that it was
happening to others, because he had me mentor
a young woman who was 19 at the time.
I’m not going to mention her name, because
she has not disclosed her name yet.
She is a celebrity, a well-known celebrity.
And he assaulted her.
He abused her.
And we were close friends.
We maintained a close friendship for a number
of years.
And I have this guilt that I still carry,
because I was in my mid-twenties, she was
19, of not having protected her, because we
knew what was going on.
There was a stand-in at the time who told
me about the abuses on The Cosby Show, another
black woman—these are two black women—who
has also become a bit of a celebrity.
And she told me about the abuses that she
endured.
So, how—and they told me that there were
a number of people, so I knew.
There was a white woman whose father was Bill
Cosby’s friend, who worked at the Cosby
studios, who came home drugged to her boyfriend
by Bill Cosby, and her boyfriend is a production
assistant on The Cosby Show.
And so I knew this was happening.
And then I was friends with Beverly Johnson
since 1991, and she told—and I heard through
friends and through her about her story, about
how Bill Cosby drugged her.
So I knew.
Beverly knew a little bit of my story.
I did not know, however, that anything ever
happened in 2004 and '05 with Andrea Constand.
I did not know that there were 13 other women,
Jane Does, who were willing to testify on
her behalf.
I had no idea.
So, in 2014, November, when it came public,
I was shocked.
I was like, “Who's this Andrea Constand?
Who are these 13 women?”
I had no idea.
And what happened in November 2014 is that
it triggered in me another PTSD crisis, because
post-Bill Cosby rape, in the summer of 1992,
I was so terrified and scared for my life
that I attempted suicide on a number of occasions.
I was kept in solitary confinement for 72
hours in a straightjacket at St. Luke’s
Hospital.
So it was a horrific time for me.
And then, again, in November 2014, I find
myself hospitalized again, out of fear, because
of the tsunami of this.
You know, this big monsoon of women speaking
out triggered in me horrible memories that
I had suppressed, which I didn’t want to
revisit.
But I was hospitalized again, through Thanksgiving
of 2014, for weeks.
So, were you represented by Gloria Allred
at any point?
Well, she represented me for a while in media,
for media purposes.
And I’m really grateful for her.
I learned so much from her.
However, she couldn’t represent me beyond
that; because of the statute of limitations,
I have no case.
Even though I have a mountain of credible,
of compelling evidence and credible witnesses
who have testified on video in my behalf,
I can’t do anything, because the statute
of limitations prevent that.
And in a case in Atlantic City—
Which is an issue that—an issue Gloria Allred,
the attorney—
Yeah.
—raised in the news conference yesterday,
or her statement—
Yes.
—saying that these statute of limitations
have to change, because this is what happens—
Yeah.
—with people often afraid to come forward
at the time.
Yes, of course.
And it’s arbitrary.
It’s an arbitrary time limit that makes
absolutely no sense, and it just prevents
rape victims from seeing justice.
In California, our state of California, we
Cosby survivors, several of us, along with
Gloria Allred, we actually campaigned and
lobbied to successfully abolish the statute
of limitations on rape prosecution.
Pennsylvania is doing it right now.
They’re voting upon whether to abolish the
statute of limitations.
Which is where Cosby was tried.
Yes.
And I hope that they land themselves on the
right side of history.
Even “alt-right” politicians like Steve
Bannon have their pulse on the decline of
patriarchy, which has been incited by the
#MeToo movement.
And the #MeToo movement, women, brave women,
speaking out against the sexual assaults,
the harassment that they’ve endured, that
has influenced the abolishment of patriarchal,
antiquated rape laws like the statute of limitations.
But really the only way that we can ensure
equal protection under the law for women is
through the ratification of the Equal Rights
Amendment, which is known as the ERA.
And in doing that, then you will—we will
see sexual assault rates decline even further.
So it’s imperative.
But this is a wonderful, powerful moment in
the history of women’s rights.
I mean, just this week, when you have both
the Bill Cosby sentencing and the accusations
against Judge Brett Kavanaugh, you have two
women, Padma Lakshmi and Alyssa Milano, both
well-known actresses, coming out and saying
they were raped as teenagers.
Yeah, it’s a seminal moment.
I don’t like to use the word “seminal
moment,” because that word is derived from
“semen.”
How do you say it for—do you say “ovarian
moment”?
But it is a pivotal point right now in the
history of gender equality.
I feel so privileged to be a part of it.
But it’s a fertile ground right now for
the changing of laws, for the abolishment
of these antiquated sexist laws.
Well, I want to go back to the Cosby trial.
Did you spend any time in the trial sitting
in the courtroom?
Oh, yes.
I was there the whole time.
Small courtroom.
And what was that like for you—
It was—
—sitting behind him?
It was visceral.
It’s a very small courtroom.
I could always see the whites of his eyes.
On some occasions, he passed by so near me,
within inches, that if I wanted to—and,
of course, I didn’t want to—I could have
touched him.
I smelled the tobacco on his breath.
I could smell his sweat.
I could smell his raunchy perfume.
So it was triggering.
But at the same time it was also empowering,
because not once did I ever falter into a
flashback.
Not once did I ever, you know, quiver or shake.
I felt empowered knowing that I could stand
firm here in support of Andrea Constand, to
show my solidarity for her just in my quiet
presence, and yet not become intimidated and
terrified by the presence of my rapist in
a very small room.
And that was empowering, especially coming
out of a PTSD crisis.
And you were with all these other women—
Yeah.
—who, presumably, Bill Cosby knew, who were
sitting there through this trial.
Oh, yes, we were.
We were sitting there together.
There were somewhere between a dozen and 20
of us.
And on several moments, Bill Cosby would look
over at us.
Not for once do I believe that his categorizing
as being legally blind obstructs him from
vision, because he would look over at us.
And what was really amazing, Amy, is that
his depravity and his lack of remorse was
exhibited through his demeanor in the courtroom,
when victims were crying and he would laugh.
And even the most striking sight for me was
that when he was preparing to be handcuffed,
you know, his publicist was removing his watch
and his rings.
Now, we, of course, didn’t see any of this.
This was in the courtroom.
I saw it, yes.
I saw that.
So, his—and Bill Cosby was rolling up his
sleeves, taking off his jackets.
He was chuckling and laughing so heartily
that his shoulders were bouncing up and down,
laughing, preparing to be handcuffed.
And he was looking at us, and his publicists
were looking at us.
That’s when Janice Dickinson laughed out
and said something like, you know, “I’ve
got the last laugh, Bill Cosby.”
And Dickinson is?
Janice Dickinson, oh, she’s a—can I say
this?—BA, bad ass.
She is a very brave woman.
She is a survivor of Bill Cosby’s.
And she was there in the courtroom with us.
We are a sisterhood.
It’s an unfortunate sisterhood, but it’s
a sweet and empowering sisterhood of women
who were all abused by Bill Cosby.
Now, the Cosby family says they will appeal.
And I’m reading from the Philadelphia Tribune.
It says, “A source whom can only be identified
as a 'neutral' Montgomery County Court official,
claims a tape played in court that helped
convict Bill Cosby was either doctored or
partly erased and the original recording contained
information that would exonerate the comedian.”
The individual said, quote, “No one in the
media, no one on the defense really, have
either asked me or pressed me or, to my knowledge,
anyone else about the tape.”
The individual, who requested anonymity because
identification could lead to employment loss
and other sanctions.
“The recording in question aired during
Cosby’s trial in April before a jury found
him guilty of three counts of aggravated indecent
assault for providing Benadryl tablets to
former Temple University employee Andrea Constand
and then engaging in foreplay where he touched
her under her pants and she touched his penis.”
This audiotape that was made, can you talk
about this, that was played?
What I can talk about is that this pathetic
attempt is nothing but another display of
the buffoonery, the absolute idiocy, the three-ring
circus of a facade of a charade of a parade
of charlatans on the witness stand, is just
characteristic of what this pathetic defense
has been trying to do to ensure freedom for
their rapist client.
And they failed.
So, this is just a buffoonery.
Don’t pay attention to it.
So, you think he will be in jail for—the
three to 10 means after three he can go up
for parole.
Yes, he can try.
He’s 81 years old now.
Yes, he can try.
But we, the survivors, the 63 of us—and
more will probably come out since this verdict—we
will be there every step of the way, you know,
to testify in front of the parole board as
to why he should continue to serve that 10-year
maximum sentence.
And now let’s go back to this context.
It’s not only the time of the #MeToo movement,
and he’s the first celebrity to be convicted
and sentenced and jailed since the #MeToo
movement really gained full steam, but also
this is the week of Judge Kavanaugh.
And now, apparently, there are four accusers
who say that he sexually assaulted or in some
way engaged in sexual misconduct with them.
Yeah, yeah.
It’s the decline of patriarchy, you know,
that even “alt-right” politicians like
Steve Bannon have their pulse on this decline
of patriarchy.
It’s such an empowering moment to be a part
of history right now.
And it’s just—that’s all I can say.
It’s the decline of patriarchy, Amy Goodman.
What do you go on to do now?
I have six children.
I’m going to hug them all.
I just spent the weekend with my son in Baltimore
who’s at Johns Hopkins.
I’ve got another one in Boston in college.
I just saw him.
But I got four left at home.
I’m going to hug them and really just rejoice.
Well, I want to thank you so much for being
with us, Lili Bernard, visual artist, actor,
accused Bill Cosby of drugging and raping
her in the early ’90s when he mentored her
in preparation for her guest-starring role
on his show, on The Cosby Show.
This is Democracy Now!
To see Part 1 of our conversation, go to democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman.
