AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report, as we turn to Part
2 of our conversation with Bishop William
Barber.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: We turn now to the aftermath
of the deadly shooting in Las Vegas.
Sunday night’s massacre by 64-year-old Stephen
Paddock at a country music festival left 59
people dead and 527 others wounded.
Meanwhile, on Capitol Hill, House Speaker
Paul Ryan said he was suspending a bill that
would make gun silencers widely available.
Ryan appeared to leave open the possibility
that lawmakers would take the bill up again
later in the fall.
But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell
rejected calls Tuesday by some Democrats for
new gun control laws in the wake of the Las
Vegas massacre.
At the White House on Monday, Press Secretary
Sarah Huckabee Sanders said it was not the
time to talk about gun control.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we’re going to Part
2 of our conversation with Bishop William
Barber, presented with the Andrew Goodman
Foundation Hidden Heroes Award "for courageously
defending the moral values of American democracy,"
presented with it on Tuesday night, joining
us now, though we’ve interviewed him a number
of times, for the first time in our studio
here in New York.
It’s great to have you with us to continue
this conversation, Bishop Barber.
Respond to the Las Vegas massacre.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: First of all, deep,
deep sadness.
I had a member of my staff at Repairers who
had someone that was actually in the crowd,
and so it touched very personally.
I’m deeply concerned, in several ways, about
the conversation.
First of all, for those who say we shouldn’t
politicize this right now, I agree; It shouldn’t
be politicized, it should be a moral issue;
and it shouldn’t be now, it should have
been long before now.
What is this commitment that we have to guns?
What is this strange psychosis that when these
things happen, we want to blame everything
but the guns?
What kind of stranglehold does the NRA—what
kind of bloodthirst commitment do we have?
And, you know, this culture, American culture,
we have to own, has been—had a history of
violence.
I know you’ve been very careful to say this
is the worst lone gunman, but there have been
other instances throughout history where you’ve
had a massive number of people.
But I’m concerned, deeply, if killing children—remember
when that happened?—didn’t change us;
if congressmen on both sides of the aisle
getting shot didn’t change us; if the best
we can do, or certain extremist politicians
can do, who claim they are pro-life, can say
we might suspend silencers, but we’ll bring
it back up.
And as I heard the president’s press person
say—I think she was asked would silencers—you
know, would there still be silencers?
She said something to the effect it wouldn’t
have really made a difference.
So, you mean if the people couldn’t have
heard the shots, and if he had had the ability
to let off 500 or 600 rounds unheard, it wouldn’t
have made a difference?
I mean, what—the only purpose for a silencer
is to kill people.
It’s not something used in hunting.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, that’s how
the police found him.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: That’s how the
police found him.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s how people looked up
and saw he was shooting—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: —from high—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Exactly, exactly,
exactly.
AMY GOODMAN: —he was shooting from a high
story of the Mandalay Bay hotel.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Yeah.
And I just keep—how much more death do we
have to see?
How much more of this commitment to violence?
Now, as a preacher, I’m reminded of the
scripture in the Bible, two of them—one
that’s in Ezekiel, which says your politicians
have become like wolves whose policies devour
the people.
The second part of the scripture says, "And
your preachers have covered up for the politicians."
Where are all the so-called white evangelicals
now?
Where are you?
You know, where are you when policies about
healthcare are passed that are going to destroy
people’s lives?
Where are you when people aren’t getting
a living wage?
Where are you now with gun violence?
Where are you, Franklin Graham and others?
Where are you now?
I think Jesus said something like "If you
live by the sword, you die by the sword."
Where are those voices now?
And that’s a great concern in this country.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, we had a reporter on
just yesterday from The Guardian who had done
an investigation of gun ownership in America,
and they concluded that 3 percent of gun owners
in America own almost 50 percent of all the
guns.
That’s just a very small group of people—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —that basically have these
amazing arsenals.
And yet they have such influence over how
gun legislation is—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Yeah.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —is developed in the country.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: And isn’t it strange
when you look back in history, when you had,
for instance, the Black Panthers carrying
guns, and Ronald Reagan was governor.
All of a sudden they wanted gun control.
You remember that?
AMY GOODMAN: Right, when the Black Panthers
marched on the state Capitol—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: You remember that?
That’s right.
That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: —in Sacramento, California.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Now you have people
that want to have—be able to carry concealed
weapons on legislative floors.
They want all these open gun laws.
You can buy as many as you want.
I think in Nevada the guns could be taken
right into a hotel.
But at this point, the conversation should
be about life versus death.
The problem is, we’ve got this deep moral
problem.
And that is that it’s not just about guns
being violent.
We are having debates in this country right
now over passing violent policies.
Remember—Coretta Scott King said something
we ought to remember.
She was asked one time, "What do you think
about violence, since your husband was assassinated?"
And Coretta gave a very profound answer.
She said, "Violence is not just the killing
of my husband."
She said, "Violence is denying kids education.
Violence is denying people healthcare.
Violence is denying people wages.
Violence is taking people’s culture."
And then she said, "Even an apathetic attitude
that doesn’t address these other forms of
violence is a form of violence."
We truly have got to decide in this country,
and it’s going to have to be a mass movement
that helps us decide, whether we’re going
to focus on violence or nonviolence, not in
terms of protesting guns, but even in terms
of the kind of public policy that’s being
pushed.
AMY GOODMAN: You mentioned that we have said
this is the largest massacre by a single gunman
in history.
So talk about history, Bishop Barber.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: History.
If you go back to the 1800s, right after slavery,
the Reconstruction movement, but then what
was called the Deconstruction movement, 1872,
the founding of the Ku Klux Klan, was about
violence.
And a lot of that violence was directed toward
whites, trying to get them not to work with
African Americans.
If you look at the period of time between
1898 to the 1920s, deep violence.
Black men were hung at an average of one per
day.
There were no laws against lynching.
You have the Wilmington riots and coup d’état,
duly elected black and white people run out
of office, black people killed, in 1898.
You’ve got the Springfield riots in—
AMY GOODMAN: Wait, stick with Wilmington.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: OK.
AMY GOODMAN: Also, Juan, you wrote about this
in your book News for All the People: The
Epic Story of Race and the American Media.
It’s an astounding story that most people
don’t know about.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Astounding, yeah.
November 10, 1898—and by the way, let me
just put a hook on this.
Most of the so-called Confederate statues
were raised, 80 percent of them, from 1898
to 1922.
1898 was the Wilmington riots. 1922 was the
year, I think, before Leonidas Dyer from St.
Louis entered a bill into Congress to make
an anti-lynching bill, that passed in the
House.
He was a Republican—of that day, not this
day.
And it failed in the Senate.
Now I’ll go back to 1898.
November 10th, after two years of violent
propaganda, led by Charles B. Aycock, who
became governor of the state of North Carolina,
and Josephus Daniels, who was the owner of
The News & Observer, they began to say, if
we don’t remove these black and white fusionist
politicians from office, our white women and
white children will be under threat.
And they did it to the point that by November
10th there was so much vile in the political
atmosphere, listen, so much vile in conversation
and language, that the language led to the
violence.
AMY GOODMAN: What was so unusual about North
Carolina and its politics at the time?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: What was so unusual
at that time is by—and from 1878 to around
1872, and then later on, North Carolina had
more African Americans in the Legislature
than it has today.
It was extraordinarily progressive.
In the first four years, they rewrote the
Constitution.
They made public education a right, which
is not even a right in the federal Constitution.
They passed equal protection under the law
before equal protection was passed in the
14th Amendment.
They opened up voting—of course, for men,
not for women.
They were even talking about labor rights.
They put in the Constitution that every person
had a right to the fruit of their own labor.
They said that the first principle of a Christian
and a civilized society was beneficent provision
to the poor.
They put that language in the Constitution.
The—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, of course, this was an
alliance of African Americans and—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Fusion politics.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —and white Republicans,
for the most part.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right, Republicans
of that day.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Of that day, right.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Lincoln Republicans.
You have to say that, because sometimes—and
that’s how we modeled the Moral Monday movement,
off of fusion politics, intersectional politics.
And it was powerful.
And it was happening all over the South.
But by 1896, you had Plessy v. Ferguson.
1883, you had the overturning of the 1875
Civil Rights Act.
And there was this push to recodify and institute
fully white supremacy, white nationalism,
into the laws.
And so, Wilmington was a powerful city.
It was 50 percent African-American.
The wealthiest man in North Carolina was an
African American in Wilmington.
And it was the closest port to Africa and
Europe.
And Wilmington would have ended up being Atlanta,
that kind of city.
And it was targeted.
We can shut it down.
And so, white supremacists got together.
Newspaper, politicians ran a campaign.
And on November the 10th, they brought a Gatling
gun into Wilmington.
They burned down the black newspaper, that
was led by the mulatto’s son—he was a
white governor, he had a black mama—burned
it down.
And they went on a killing spree.
And it was endorsed by churches.
Some preachers stood in their pulpits and
said, "If we have to fill the Cape Fear River
with the blood of the"—I won’t say the
word—"then let it be, so that we can return
the government to its right ownership of the
white man."
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: They not only ran the African-American
elected officials out of town, they—as I
recall, they installed a former Confederate
officer as the new mayor—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: That’s right.
That’s right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —in the coup that they organized.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: They organized a
coup, because the goal was to—they had already
begun to take over the Legislature, to some
degree, by re-entering Jim Crow—entering
Jim Crow laws in voting.
But after that riot, they sent telegraphs
all over the country—this riot predates
the Springfield riots—saying, "This is how
you return power."
And by 1902, the last congressperson—black
congressperson was from North Carolina.
His name was George White.
He was put out of the United States Congress,
and it took 90 years.
Now, here’s the—here’s one of the curious
things about this, Amy.
It took 90 years for North Carolina to have
another black person in the United States
Congress.
Voting went to almost zero in the black community.
And what people don’t know is that there
was so much fear—right?—around what had
happened that it just froze.
So all of the progress of Reconstruction was
turned back, was turned back.
And it was tied to this massacre.
AMY GOODMAN: And Josephus Daniels became—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: He was rewarded
secretary of the Navy.
AMY GOODMAN: Woodrow Wilson.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Woodrow Wilson,
who also played Birth of a Nation in the Oval
Office.
AMY GOODMAN: Which became this recruiting
tool for the Ku Klux Klan.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: That’s right,
because it glorified the Ku Klux Klan, and
it said—told lies about fusionist white
and black politicians.
And he played it in the Oval Office.
The statue in Charlottesville, that we have
recently been talking about, was raised really
in celebration to Woodrow Wilson, the white
supremacists believing we have a friend in
the White House, right?
AMY GOODMAN: He would later become appointed,
by FDR, the ambassador to Mexico.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: OK, that’s right.
So there’s a lot of this history to go around.
Charles B. Aycock becomes governor.
They claim that he was the educational governor,
but you know what he did?
He went to whites and said, "If you don’t
want your children to be like these black
children, because we’re going to make it
so you have to have a certain educational
level to vote, you better let me raise taxes
on your property."
So he used a race argument to get white Southerners
who were racist in North Carolina to allow
him to raise taxes off their property to build
public schools.
AMY GOODMAN: So go back to the massacre—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right, right.
AMY GOODMAN: —that day.
How many people are believed to have died?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Well, there’s
some estimates that say 2 to 3 percent of
the city.
There’s some that say there were at least
60 African Americans alone that were shot
and killed.
We don’t know how many people were killed,
because they had to run into the swamp or
could have been drowned, couldn’t—bodies
may have never been found.
And it was not written in history.
This is the thing I wanted to get to.
This was not put into history books until,
in the 1980s, Dr. Tim Tyson and a senator,
who later died, a black senator from Wilmington,
began to force and push it.
Irv Joyner, who works with me, was a part
of that team.
So you’re talking about when the discussions
were around which counties would be covered
under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act,
you know, those counties are not covered,
those counties in that part of the state of
North Carolina.
We only have 40 counties that were covered.
So the argument is, there really wasn’t
that much white supremacy in the other 60
counties.
Those counties weren’t covered, because
the testimony of what happened in Wilmington
and what happened in southeast North Carolina
was not a part of the testimony before the
Congress when the decision was made about
which counties would be covered under preclearance.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: It wasn’t until about a
hundred years later that they established
a commission—right?—in North Carolina—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: A hundred years,
that’s right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —that uncovered all the
facts.
And all these newspapers then did public apologies—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —for their role in instigating
the violence.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: And we still haven’t
talked about the number—the people whose
land was stolen and taken, who were thrust
into poverty.
Again, you’re talking about people who were
doing very well, black people in Wilmington.
So it is a horrific story.
But it ought to remind us of what can happen
when you have vile, racist, xenophobic language
coming from the highest levels of the government.
AMY GOODMAN: And Josephus Daniels, in the
newspaper, because a lot of people couldn’t
read—
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —used cartoons?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: He used cartoons,
political satire.
But the cartoons—one of them has a picture
of a black person with a top hat on like Abraham
Lincoln, but he has vampire teeth and vampire
claws.
In one hand, he’s holding a white woman.
In the other hand, he’s pushing back white
men.
And, of course, the image there would be that
if we don’t stop these black politicians,
your women and your children are at risk,
which has always been a tool of racists and
white nationalists and white supremacists.
That is why, today, it concerns me that—the
way in which too much of the corporate media
let Trump and his allies off.
That is why I’m deeply concerned today when
we have a Charlottesville, and everybody focuses
on the death of the young girl.
And we should.
My god, ugly, mean, a violent death, running
through a crowd with a car.
But the problem is, when we stop there and
we—and people denounce the hate, in that
moment, which almost everybody will do—I
mean, Trump had a problem doing it, but almost
everybody, politician, has political sense
enough to say, "I’m against that."
But being against that doesn’t mean you
are against the white nationalist sentiments
that led to that, you see?
And so you can actually be against that kind
of hate.
We had white politicians that signed off on
the apology of Wilmington, but none of them
have talked about we need to expand preclearance
coverage to all of those counties.
That is why I think media—and I love what
Democracy Now!
does, but we’ve got to get also the other
media to begin to look at the policies of
white supremacy.
That’s why it bothers me that—it’s not
that Trump used racism and code words and
overt words, not just coded words, to win
the presidency and to stir up certain racial
fears.
It’s that he did it with such ease and almost
with the corporate media, and even his opponents,
not knowing how to call him out on it.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I wanted to ask you, because
we had on—in relationship to Charlottesville,
we had on Wes Bellamy, the young councilman
in Charlottesville, who actually originally
introduced the legislation to remove the statue
of Robert E. Lee—first African American
elected to the City Council of Charlottesville.
And—
AMY GOODMAN: What’s interesting, Juan, is
you met him in Austin well before all of this.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Right, well before all this
stuff happened, in a conference of progressive
local officials.
And he told a story that he not only was able
to get the vote for the statue, but initially
the City Council was rebuffing him, because
he was only one African American on the council,
and he couldn’t get the votes.
So he told them, "OK, you don’t want to
remove the statue of Robert E. Lee.
Give me a reparations package."
And he insisted on a pool of money to begin
to provide scholarships and job training and
all of this money for the African-American
community of Charlottesville, and the council
gladly gave him that, rather than vote on
the statue.
AMY GOODMAN: Eight million dollars.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Right, $8 million.
And I said to myself, "Wait a second.
Everybody’s talking about reparations at
the national level.
What if this idea of reparations at the local
level started being introduced in city councils
in areas where there were large African-American
majorities?"
So Bellamy gets the package, and then, a few
months later, he’s able to win over a couple
more votes, and then they pass the Robert
E. Lee statue.
So he got both.
And that’s when the Klan started mobilizing
and targeting Charlottesville.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Yeah.
Well, it says a couple of things.
Number one, the fact that he raised the issue
of reparations is very important.
It also says something about the power of
these statues and why people need to understand
that they were not raised immediately after
the Civil War, but these statues were raised
to celebrate the recodification of white supremacy
and the resurrection of white supremacy in
the law.
But then, I think it also says the reparations
that—the scholarships are great, but we
also have to have a repeal of the laws that
perpetuate the kind of systemic racism and
classism.
And we need black, whites and brown people
committed to understand how racism hurts everybody.
For instance, 20—over 20 states, mostly
in the South, resisted Obamacare, Medicaid
expansion.
Now, why did they name it Obamacare?
That is to racialize it, right?
It’s the Affordable Care Act.
So, most of the Southern states resisted,
and you could hear in their language of state
legislators—"This is going to help these
lazy people that are not doing"—when, in
fact, most of the people are working.
They racialized the Affordable Care Act.
But in North Carolina, for instance, 346,000
of the people that would have been helped
are white.
When I went up to Appalachia in North Carolina,
in Mitchell County, and shared with them,
"Do you realize a thousand people in this
county would have healthcare?"—and this
county is 99 percent white, 89 percent Republican—ain’t
no black people up here.
So, they use racialized arguments to pass
policies that hurt everybody.
That is something that we’ve got to begin
to do.
I wish that in the healthcare debate we had
talked about lives being lost and we had called
it racist and classist.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think that President Trump
is a white supremacist?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: I do.
And I think he’s a white nationalist.
And when you look at the policies—now, again,
I’m talking about policy.
People say, "Well, you don’t know what’s
in his heart."
I know what’s in the heart of his policies.
And, as I’ve said, it’s not just about
the statues.
It’s about the statutes.
And I don’t think he’s the only one that,
in terms, embraces white nationalist, white
supremacist ideology.
Now, having said that, what do I mean?
White nationalists are against—are for voter
suppression.
Mr. Politician, Trump, Ryan, McConnell, any
of them, Tim Scott, where do you stand on
restoring the Voting Rights Act?
Since it was 52 years, and we have less voting
rights now than we had 52 years ago.
And we’ve had 1,562 days of filibuster.
White nationalists are against healthcare
for everybody.
Mr. Politician, where do you stand on healthcare
for everybody?
White nationalists are against the immigrant
community and against immigrant justice.
Mr. Politician, I don’t need to know if
you’ve got a black friend.
Where do you stand on immigrant justice?
Mr. Politician, 54 percent of the African-American
community make less than a living wage.
Sixty-two million Americans make less than
a living wage.
The majority of people without a living wage
are white.
The majority of poor people are white.
But in per—but within the race, more black
people.
Where do you stand on addressing poverty?
Because, you know, white supremacists and
white nationalists don’t believe in living
wages for everybody.
If you do that kind of analysis, you either
are a white supremacist or white nationalist,
or you’re engaged in policies that embolden
and encourage white supremacy, which is why
I believe Unite the Right chose Charlottesville,
because just like that statue was raised to
celebrate a white supremacist in the White
House, I believe the reason they chose that
statue, that was actually commissioned in
1917, the year after Woodrow Wilson played
Birth of a Nation, that it was a signal.
Richard Spencer said in one of his speeches
that it was Trump’s talk about immigrants
that basically said Trump is my man.
But it’s not just Trump.
And that’s the last thing I want to say.
We’ve got to be very careful, because there’s
not a penny difference between the policy
of Trump, the policies of Ryan, the policies
of McConnell.
It’s style.
You know, Tim Scott, who’s black, from South
Carolina, went in to talk to Trump about racism.
But Tim Scott is not for restoring the Voting
Rights Act.
Tim Scott is against—was against the Affordable
Care Act and expansion of Medicaid.
AMY GOODMAN: Who the White House called Tom
Scott.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Right.
I mean, excuse me—yeah, right, the White
House called him—I don’t know why they
did that, but...
You know, in his state, that needs—so, we’ve
got to have a real conversation about racism
and poverty.
And if we have it, I think we can connect
black and white and brown people in a way
that can be transformational.
That’s what this Poor People’s Campaign
is going to be about.
AMY GOODMAN: So, can we talk about what you
did with Moral Mondays, for people around
the country who might not have heard of this
movement in North Carolina?
In the end, there was a Republican sweep in
the 2016 election, for example, of governors
around the country.
You actually succeeded in getting a Democratic
governor elected in North Carolina.
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: Yeah.
The Moral Monday movement, that was built
on top of seven years of the Forward Together
Moral Movement, that eventually ended up with
nearly 200 coalition partners around a—what
we call a 14-point agenda with five clear
areas—economic sustainability addressing
poverty and labor rights; educational equality
and public education for every child; healthcare
for all; protecting Social Security, Medicare,
Medicaid and women’s health; addressing
the injustices of the criminal justice system
that affect black, brown and poor white people;
and demanding equal protection under the law;
protecting women’s rights, LGBTQ rights,
immigrant rights; and voting rights, not only
protecting them, but expanding.
Those were our goals.
And by doing that, we took the model of 1800s
and worked and built fusion politics.
We challenged Democrats.
People don’t know President Obama would
have lost in 2008 if we had only had one day
of election.
He won because of same-day registration, early
voting, which was an outgrowth of the movement.
In 2013, extremists came into office, like
Trump, and they began, day one, first 50 days,
rolling back everything—healthcare, money
for public education, going after voting rights.
Some people said, "We’ll just wait ’til
the next election."
But a group of us said, "No, we don’t wait
’til the next election.
We have to challenge this now."
They said, "Well, they have a supermajority.
They’re going to vote against us."
OK, they’re going to vote against us.
But they can’t vote in the dark.
They can’t vote undercover.
We have to let people know.
We have to show a unified fusion face on these
issues.
And lastly, the first time, we had 17 people
to go in—black, white, Jew, Muslim, Christian,
a woman with cerebral palsy in a wheelchair
that they ended up arresting, who was fighting
for healthcare.
That led to more than a thousand people getting
arrested over the next 30 weeks—people of
all different races, colors, creeds and party.
It put a broad face on the problem.
We learned this year, Amy, in a study, that
the governor was about at 60 percent at that
time.
First five weeks, his numbers went down to
under—to 40-something.
By the seventh or eighth week, he was down
to 39 percent, or something like that, and
never recovered.
The Legislature’s popularity was driven
to 19 percent.
And because we kept at it—it wasn’t one
rally.
It wasn’t one tweet.
It was constant moral challenge, civil disobedience.
We also added a legal challenge to the laws.
We added a voter registration challenge.
And so, by 2016, in a state that Trump won,
and in a state where they took 150 of our
early voting sites, we not only won the—we
not only saw the governorship—and we never
endorsed anybody.
We endorsed a change in consciousness.
Governor is sent home.
For the first time, we have two African Americans
on the state Supreme Court.
And an African-American candidate won 70-some
counties, on a Supreme Court, in the state—in
a state in the South.
The AG’s Office went to a progressive.
And there are many, many other victories.
And we’re not through.
We’re not through.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we want to thank you so
much for being with us.
Again, as you lead your Poor People’s Campaign,
you’re making a major announcement on what
date?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: December 4th.
Dr. Liz Theoharis and myself and people from
all over the country, from 25 states and the
District of Columbia—hope I can come back
and tell it right here on Democracy Now!
AMY GOODMAN: And why December 4th?
BISHOP WILLIAM BARBER II: That was the day
that Dr. King announced the Poor People’s
Campaign in 1967.
And also during that week, he preached a sermon
called "The Meaning of Hope."
So we’re taking some of the best from that,
but also adding to it the work that Kairos
Center has done for over 10 years, work that
Repairers—I mean, the moral work that’s
gone on for the last 12 years, and we’re
combining all of that and reimagining, because
the last thing we need—and I say this to
all my brothers and sisters of faith and in
the movement, tell black, white, brown, Jewish,
whoever you are—the last thing we need is
another commemoration.
We don’t need to commemorate.
We need to reimagine and reconsecrate and
engage in a sustained movement, not just one
rally, one tweet.
