AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report, as we continue our
exclusive, a conversation with Brazil’s
former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva,
popularly known as Lula.
The highly popular former union leader is
running for president in this year’s election
but is facing a possible prison term on what
many believe to be trumped-up corruption charges
tied to a sprawling probe known as “Operation
Car Wash.”
Lula was convicted of accepting a beachside
apartment from an engineering firm vying for
contracts at the state oil company Petrobras,
but many of Lula’s supporters say the conviction
was politically motivated.
The Intercept recently reported, quote, “The
indictment against Lula is rife with problems.
The apartment’s title was never transferred
to Lula or his associates; he and his wife
never used the property; the prosecution could
not identify an explicit quid pro quo or benefit
related to Petrobras; no official or internal
documentation linking Lula to the apartment
was produced; and the case rests almost entirely
on the testimony of the executive who hoped
to gain sentencing leniency for his cooperation,”
unquote.
During the interview on Friday, President
Lula responded to the charges and conviction
against him.
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] I
was not accused of corruption.
I was accused because of a lie in 
a police investigation, a lie in an indictment
by the Office of the Attorney General, and
in the judgment of Judge Moro, because there
is only one evidence, of my innocence, in
this entire trial, which my defense counsel
explained in a magisterial manner.
We are awaiting the accusers, for the accusers
to show at least some piece of evidence that
indicates that I committed any crime during
the period that I was in the presidency.
Now, what is behind that is the attempt to
criminalize my political party.
What is behind that is the interest in a part
of the political elite in Brazil, together
with a part of the press, reinforced by the
role of the judiciary, in preventing Lula
from becoming a candidate in the 2018 elections.
And I continue challenging the federal police,
the Office of the Attorney General.
I continue challenging Judge Moro and the
appellate court to show the world and to show
Brazil a single piece of evidence of a crime
committed by me.
The behavior of the judiciary in this instance
is a political form of behavior.
AMY GOODMAN: Mr. President, last year, the
ousted President Dilma Rousseff said, “The
first chapter of the coup was my impeachment.
But there’s a second chapter, and that is
stopping President Lula from becoming a candidate
for next year’s elections.”
Do you see it the same way, that this is the
final chapter of the coup, if your conviction
is upheld, that you will be prevented from
running in the October elections?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] Amy,
the Workers’ Party, in 12 years in the government,
at the helm of the government in Brazil, was
able to do many things that had never been
done at any time in the 20th century.
In this country, in 12 years, we brought 40
million people into the middle class.
We drew 36 million people out of poverty.
While Europe was shedding 62 million jobs
as of the 2000 date, we created 20 million
jobs in the formal sector in this country.
For 12 years, all Brazilian workers were able
to overcome inflation.
It was the time of the greatest economic growth
in the history of Brazil.
It was the most distribution of income in
the history of Brazil.
To give you an idea, in 12 years, 70 million
people began to use the banking system who
had never walked into a bank.
And when they got rid of Dilma, they did want
Lula to come back, because they know that
the relationship between the Brazilian people
and President Lula was the strongest relationship
that the people of Brazil had ever had with
a president in the entire history of the country.
And even more important, they know I am absolutely
certain that the best way to ensure economic
recovery in Brazil is to lift up the working
people of this country.
They know that I know how to do that.
Now that the poor people had jobs, had a salary,
were studying, were eating better, were living—had
better housing, when that happens, the economy
grows again, and we can become the most optimistic
country in the world and the happiest people
in the world.
And, Amy, that is why I want to be candidate
for the presidency of Brazil, to show that
a mechanic who doesn’t have a university
degree knows better how to take care of the
Brazilian people than the Brazilian elite,
who never looked after the welfare of the
Brazilian people.
AMY GOODMAN: President Lula, why did you decide
to run for president again?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] The
truth is, I have still not decided, Amy.
The ones who are deciding are the Brazilian
people.
Look, all of the public opinion polls in Brazil,
month after month—and there are several
of them—in all of them, I’m in first place.
And so, I’m beginning to be the candidate
who has the lowest negatives and the possibility
of becoming a candidate and winning on the
first round, and this is making my adversaries
very uncomfortable.
And I am sure, Amy, that at the Supreme Court
I will be acquitted and that I will be candidate,
and Brazil could once again be a protagonist
in international policy, the economy could
grow again, create jobs and improve the quality
of life of the people.
This is something I know how to do very well.
AMY GOODMAN: If the case does not go well
for you in the Supreme Court, would you consider
stepping aside?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] First
of all, Amy, I’m very optimistic, very optimistic.
Now, if that were to happen and I was not
able—were not able to be a candidate, if
my name is not on the ballot, I think that
the party would call a convention and discuss
what to do.
I am going to require that and call for justice
to be done in the country.
Now, if my innocence is proven, then Judge
Moro should be removed from his position,
because you can’t have a judge who is lying
in the judgment and pronouncing as guilty
someone who he knows is innocent.
He knows that it’s not my apartment.
He knows that I didn’t buy it.
He knows that I didn’t pay anything.
He knows that I never went there.
He knows that I don’t have money from Petrobras.
The thing is that because he subordinated
himself to the media, I said, in the first
hearing with him, “You are not in a position
to acquit me, because the lies have gone too
far.”
And the disgrace is that the one who does
the first lie continues lying and lying and
lying to justify the first lie.
And I am going to prove that he has been lying.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, you raise two issues, President
Lula: the media as prosecutor and the judge
as prosecutor.
Can you talk about both?
Start with the media.
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] Well,
Amy, it’s important that you come to Brazil
to see what’s happening with the Brazilian
press.
I was president for eight years.
Dilma was president for four years.
And for 12 years, all the press did was to
try to destroy my image and her image and
the image of my party.
I have more negative subject matter about
me in the leading television news program
of Brazil than all of the presidents in the
whole history of Brazil.
In other words, it’s a daily attempt to
massacre me, to tell untruths about Lula,
about Lula’s family.
And the only weapon that I have is to confront
them.
And they’re irritated, because after they
massacred me for four years, any opinion poll
by any polling institute showed that Lula
was going win the elections in Brazil.
Now, second, the Office of the Attorney General
and the Car Wash scandal.
I respect very much 
the institution.
I was a member of the constitutional assembly,
and I helped to strengthen the role of the
Office of the Attorney General.
But it created a task force, organized by
a prosecutor, who went to television to show
a PowerPoint, and said that the PT, the Workers’
Party, was established to be a criminal organization,
that the fact that Lula was the most important
person in the PT meant that he was the head
of a criminal organization.
And on concluding the indictment, he simply
said the following: “I don’t have evidence.
I don’t have evidence.
I have conviction.”
I don’t want to be judged by the conviction
of the prosecutor.
He can keep his convictions to himself.
I want whoever is prosecuting me to come forward
in the proceeding and to tell the people of
Brazil what crime I committed.
The only thing, Amy, that I really want now
is for the merits of my trial to be judged.
I want him to discuss it.
I want him to read the prosecutorial brief
and the defense brief, and then make a decision.
What I really want at this time is that justice
be done in this country.
AMY GOODMAN: The candidate polling second
in Brazil’s elections is a far-right-wing
congressman and former soldier named Jair
Bolsonaro.
He’s been called the “Brazilian Trump.”
Can you talk about who he is, what he represents,
and if you understand there’s any communication
between him and the U.S. government right
now?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] I
cannot.
I cannot level accusations against an adversary.
The only thing that I would like is to have
the right to run in the elections here in
Brazil, to win the elections and to recover
the right of the Brazilian people to live
well.
I cannot pass judgment on the president of
the United States, just as I cannot pass judgment
on the president of Uruguay, and much less
can I pass judgment on my adversaries.
AMY GOODMAN: But if you can explain what he
represents, how you differ from him?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] He
is a member of the federal Congress.
He was an Army captain in the Brazilian Army.
The information that we have is that he was
expelled from the Brazilian army.
And his behavior is far-right-wing, fascist.
He is very much prejudiced against women,
against blacks, against indigenous persons,
against human rights.
He believes that everything can be resolved
with violence.
So, I don’t think he has a future in Brazilian
politics.
He has the right to run.
He speaks.
He projects a certain image to please a part
of the society that is of the extreme right.
But I don’t believe that the Brazilian people
have an interest in electing someone with
his sort of behavior to serve as president
of the republic.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think he was happy with
Marielle’s death?
LUIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA: [translated] I
think so, because he’s preaching violence
every day.
He preaches violence.
He believes that those who defend human rights
are doing a disservice to democracy.
He thinks that those who defend women’s
rights are doing a disservice to democracy,
likewise those who defend the rights of the
black community.
He is against everything that is discussed
when one is talking about human rights.
AMY GOODMAN: We continue with Brazilian presidential
candidate, former President Luiz Inácio Lula
da Silva, in 30 seconds.
