AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
the War and Peace report, I’m Amy Goodman
with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: We turn now to the danger
facing journalists in Mexico and how the U.S.
has responded to one of them.
This week, Mexican journalist Gumaro Pérez
Aguinaldo was assassinated in the southern
state of Veracruz, becoming at least the 12th
journalist to be killed in Mexico so far this
year.
He was attending a Christmas pageant at his
son’s school in the city of Acayucan, when
armed men burst into the classroom and murdered
him in front of a room filled with schoolchildren.
Pérez covered police for multiple outlets,
including the news site he founded, La Voz
del Sur, or The Voice of the South.
He is at least the third journalist murdered
in the city of Acayucan in recent months.
His death marked the 12th murder of a media
worker in Mexico in 2017, according to the
press freedom organization Reporters Without
Borders.
The killing puts Mexico alongside Syria as
the most murderous country for journalists,
according to RSF.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, in a broadcast exclusive
today, we conducted a jailhouse interview
by phone with another Mexican journalist:
Emilio Gutiérrez Soto, who is fighting his
deportation to Mexico as he’s being held
in a U.S. detention center in El Paso, Texas.
Gutiérrez first sought asylum in the United
States in 2008 after receiving death threats
for reporting on alleged corruption in the
Mexican military.
He was detained then, eventually released
while his asylum appeal was pending.
Well, last week, his asylum appeal was denied.
He now faces deportation back to Mexico, one
of the most dangerous countries in the world
for journalists.
Democracy Now!’s Juan González and I had
a chance to speak with Gutiérrez directly
in detention, where he is in jail in El Paso.
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Look,
Juan, I wrote some articles where I described
how the military acting in the northwest of
Chihuahua, specifically in the municipality
of Ascensión, Chihuahua, and particularly
the population of Palomas, which is by the
border with the state of New Mexico.
This caused disgust at the Ministry of Defense,
which sent the head of the 5th Military Zone
in Chihuahua, General García Vega, to threaten
me, saying I had already written three articles
noting corruption and assaults against the
population by members of the military.
And he sentenced me.
He said, “You’ve written three articles,
and there’s not going to be a fourth one.”
And, of course, there was a fourth article.
And I filed a complaint with the Human Rights
Commission and also with the Office of the
Attorney General for the state.
As a result, for a time after those threats,
they sought some sort of reconciliation with
me, but the terms never came about.
In this state of affairs, I was somewhat fearful
in the face of a serious warning by a general,
a high-level commander from the Mexican Army.
Back in 2008, the Army forcibly entered my
home, knocking down the main door, threatening
us with their firearms.
They threw me to the floor.
And they said they were searching for weapons
and drugs.
They destroyed our home.
And, of course, they found nothing, nothing
at all.
And once again, great fear has come, such
that I had to stay up all night while my son
was sleeping.
I had to look out the window to see who might
be coming by.
And my sleep—well, I would catch up on my
sleep at the office, while at the same time
doing my work as a journalist.
A month later, on May 5th, at night, after
they broke into our house and had destroyed
our house, we took more precautions.
And on June 16th, 2008, we decided to enter
the United States seeking political asylum.
First, we said that the military were keeping
close surveillance over me and that a friend
of mine told me that a relative of hers in
the repeat response elite group told my friend—told
her that there was a plan to kill me.
Obviously, I had to quickly take what I needed
from my home.
I went to a friend of a home where my son
was.
There was a religious service going on there.
And we went to a ranch on Saturday, July 14th.
And on the 16th, we opted to cross into the
United States at the border post of Berrendo
into the state of New Mexico, where we placed
ourselves at the disposal of U.S. immigration
officials, seeking political asylum.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Was it your intention to move
to the United States, or did you just feel
that you had to as a result of the threats
to your life?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] No.
We did this with the intention of moving permanently,
because when there is a threat by the military,
it’s very serious.
Plus, there were already antecedents in terms
of how the military were acting, and, in some
cases, people would not appear again.
AMY GOODMAN: Emilio, can you talk about what
deportation would mean?
First, describe where you are in the El Paso
jail.
And then, what would it mean if you were sent
back to Mexico?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Well,
if we are deported, that obviously implies
death.
Why?
Because ICE, under the Department of Homeland
Security of the United States, by law, must
give a report to the immigration authorities
of Mexico and the consulate.
And the immigration officials in Mexico have
no credibility.
It’s impossible to trust in them.
To the contrary, many of those officials,
many personnel at the consulate or immigration
service, are caught up with organized crime.
And organized crime is precisely the Mexican
government.
If the government didn’t give its consent
for criminal groups to work with impunity,
certainly the conditions would be different.
But the government of Mexico facilitates the
work of criminal groups who operate with total
impunity.
The government of Mexico, we all know, is
the most corrupt government in the hemisphere
and obviously enjoys no credibility.
Now, the conditions we find ourselves at this
ICE jail in El Paso are truly denigrating.
We have seen—my son and myself—most of
the immigrants detained here are from Central
and South America, the majority.
We’re not so many Mexicans here at this
jail.
Now, given the extreme poverty, well, of course,
that is experienced in Mexico, but even more
so in Central and South America.
For many of the persons detained, it seems
that the conditions are adequate, are pleasant.
But they are denigrating.
The food is poor nutritionally.
And it is not pleasant at all to eat the food
here.
Not at all.
Plus, the rations, the portions are too small.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Emilio, the immigration
authorities here in the United States are
saying that you have no proof, no documentary
proof, of your claims or that no witnesses
have appeared to back up your claims.
How do you respond to that?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] I believe
that the immigration authorities are an institution
based on lies.
It would appear that I would need to enter
the United States with bullet holes on the
front and back of my body or mutilated, which
is what the institutional criminal group—the
Mexican government—generally does.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Mexican journalist Emilio
Gutiérrez Soto, speaking in an exclusive
jailhouse broadcast interview from a U.S.
detention center in El Paso, where he is fighting
his deportation to Mexico, one of the most
dangerous countries in the world for journalists.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Gutiérrez first sought asylum
in the United States in 2008 after receiving
death threats for reporting on alleged corruption
in the Mexican military.
He was detained then and eventually released
when his asylum appeal was pending.
He lived free in the U.S. for nearly a decade.
Last week, the Trump administration denied
his asylum appeal.
Well, for more, we’re joined in El Paso,
Texas, via Democracy Now!
video stream by his lawyer, Eduardo Beckett.
Eduardo Beckett, could you tell us with the
situation is now with your client, Emilio
Gutiérrez?
EDUARDO BECKETT: Yes, good morning.
It’s an honor to be here.
My client’s asylum claim was actually denied
on July 19th of 2017.
He filed an appeal with the Board of Immigration
Appeals.
The appeal was dismissed on a technicality.
At that moment, he could be deported anytime,
so we filed a stay, a stay removal, both with
the original immigration judge, with a motion
to reopen, a stay with ICE, and both of them
were denied by the judge and denied by ICE.
So we filed an emergency stay with the Board
of Immigration Appeals and a motion to reopen.
The stay removal by the Board of Immigration
Appeals was granted, and his motion to reopen
his asylum case is pending.
What we’re doing right now, we’re trying
to get him released on humanitarian parole.
And as my client has told you, you know, right
now we’re—ICE is operating basically on
steroids.
And I would say that my client is a prototypical
example of someone who should have been granted
asylum.
He’s a journalist.
He has openly criticized the Mexican government
for years and years, nonstop.
His life is in great danger upon deportation.
He has no criminal history.
He entered legally, and yet ICE is treating
him like a criminal.
So this is the criminalization of asylum seekers.
So that’s the situation right now.
AMY GOODMAN: Eduardo Beckett, explain the
grounds on which he was denied his claim for
political—his request for political asylum
here.
I mean, we just reported today in our headlines
and in this segment about yet another Mexican
journalist who was gunned down in Mexico.
As you heard in this interview, Emilio Gutiérrez
fears, of course, if he is deported, that
that is what will happen to him: He’ll be
assassinated.
He’s being detained with his son.
Can you talk about the denial under the Trump
administration?
And what is his recourse now?
EDUARDO BECKETT: Of course.
So, the denial was basically like a 30-page
document, where the judge makes an analysis
of the conditions in Mexico.
And as you stated, the eyewitnesses from Mexico
did not show up to the court, did not want
to cooperate.
And I understand 100 percent, because they
live in Mexico, so I believe that the witnesses
were scared to come forward or to send an
affidavit.
Nevertheless, my client submitted many, many
expert witness documents, corroborating evidence,
overwhelming evidence, of the conditions of
Mexico.
And, you know, like you mentioned, 12 journalists
have been executed—a couple days ago, one
in Veracruz in front of his children at a
Christmas party.
When I told my client what happened, he was
crying, and he was shaking, and he was saying
that he felt bad, that he knows that it’s
going to happen to him.
So, in this case, the judge got it wrong.
So his recourse is to file a motion to reopen
the case, and we’re going to, hopefully,
get to redo his whole case again, because
I think the judge got it wrong.
And the message that the judge is sending
is basically saying, “We don’t want to
protect journalists, and we don’t think,
you know, that you corroborated your asylum
claim.”
But the U.S. Supreme Court only requires a
10 percent chance that upon deportation to
Mexico, that you will be tortured or executed
or persecuted.
The REAL ID Act of 2005 does require corroborating
evidence, if it’s readily available and
within reason.
In this case, to force a witness to come forward,
at the risk that that witness might be executed,
is unreasonable.
So those are the types of things that we’re
going to be asking the Board of Immigration
Appeals to examine and overrule the judge
and hopefully give us a new—the opportunity
to retry his asylum claim.
AMY GOODMAN: And the role of the local congressmember?
Has he been visited by anyone locally in El
Paso?
EDUARDO BECKETT: So, what we’re doing also,
we’re doing a campaign to shed light.
You know, under the Trump administration,
as you mentioned, we feel the erosion of due
process in an exaggerated rate.
We’re asking our local congressman, we’re
asking our clergy, we’re asking the community
to support my client and to ask for his release.
I did have a conversation with my congressman
in Washington, D.C., yesterday, his staff.
And we asked him to—
AMY GOODMAN: And he is who?
EDUARDO BECKETT: Congressman Beto O’Rourke.
Beto O’Rourke.
AMY GOODMAN: Yes.
EDUARDO BECKETT: So, we had a meeting with
him on the phone.
I did not get to speak to him directly, but
I—you know, through his staff.
And we asked him to support us and to put
pressure on ICE to get my client released.
Like I said, no criminal history.
He’s always complied with all the—with
the law.
And, you know, it’s sad that he’s being
detained like a criminal.
This is a guy that promotes democracy.
This is a guy that we want here in the United
States.
And so, we’re reaching out not only to him,
but to other senators and congressmen and
anyone who wants to help.
Journalists around the world have called us.
So we have a lot of people that are supporting
us.
And that’s why we’re here today, to highlight
this.
AMY GOODMAN: Eduardo Beckett, I want to thank
you so much for being with us, lawyer for
the detained journalist Emilio Gutiérrez.
He’s detained in an immigration jail in
El Paso, Texas.
He applied for political asylum.
He was just denied by the Trump administration.
He is appealing that decision.
He is in jail with his son.
We will continue to follow this story.
If you want to hear the whole interview with
Emilio Gutiérrez that I did with Juan González,
you can go to democracynow.org.
This is Democracy Now!
Stay with us.
