AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: We continue with Part 2 of
our interview on the escalating humanitarian
crisis in Yemen.
The U.S.-backed, Saudi-led bombing campaign
has devastated Yemen’s health, water, sanitation
systems, sparking a massive cholera epidemic.
The Saudi-imposed blockade has prevented critical
food, water, medicine and aid from reaching
civilians.
The United Nations has warned that over 8
million people are, quote, “a step away
from famine.”
Meanwhile, the Saudi-led coalition has escalated
its bombing campaign in recent days, following
the killing of former Yemeni President Ali
Abdullah Saleh.
Days before his death, the longtime leader
switched sides in the ongoing war and threw
his support behind the Saudi-led coalition.
He was then killed by the Houthis.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we’re continuing
with Iona Craig, who’s now in London.
She’s a journalist who was based in Sana’a
from 2010 to 2015 as the Yemen correspondent
for The Times of London.
But she’s written a new piece for The Guardian,
which is headlined “Bombed into famine:
how Saudi air campaign targets Yemen’s food
supplies.”
Iona Craig was awarded the 2016 Orwell Prize
for her reporting on Yemen.
Iona Craig, welcome back to Democracy Now!
In Part 2 of our discussion, what do you think
is being missed by the world in understanding
what’s being taken place in Yemen right
now?
IONA CRAIG: I think it’s really how man-made
the humanitarian crisis is, the Saudi coalition’s
policy of not just blockading the country
and restricting food imports—and Yemen imports
90 percent of its food in peace time—but
it’s also the bombing campaign, that I mentioned
in that report for The Guardian, that has
been used to systematically target Yemenis’
ability to grow their own food or supply food
for themselves.
So, there is a clear pattern of a strategy
to bomb farmland, to target the areas where
farmers are trying to grow food, and, again,
as well, targeting fishermen, where people
have become increasingly reliant on, you know,
fish and fishermen’s supplies to feed themselves.
And so, in that report, I spoke to fishermen
on the Red Sea coast in Hudaydah, the head
of the fishermen’s union, and to farmers.
And there has also been academic research
done on the data of the airstrike campaign
since 2015 that does show a pattern of the
Saudi coalition apparently targeting Yemen’s
food supplies, its own farmers and fishermen,
in order to prevent them from being able to
provide food for themselves, in addition to
this blockade.
So this is what is so largely responsible
for the humanitarian crisis that we’re seeing
now, with more than 8 million people facing
famine, with hundreds of thousands of children
now starving to death.
And this has been a policy of the Saudi coalition,
which is, of course, backed by Western nations,
including the U.S.
And so, they are complicit in that.
And it’s mass starvation of 27 million people.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, let’s go to a first-person
account by a young woman living in Sana’a,
the capital of Yemen.
The 26-year-old goes by the pseudonym “Salma”
to protect her identity, for fear for her
safety.
She spoke to PRI, The World, last week.
SALMA: We’re just staying inside our houses,
because you don’t know if the airstrike’s
going to come or, like, Houthi is going to
hit.
It’s like it’s safer for you and your
family to stay close to your house.
Since 2011, we have this kind of ugly experience
of lockdown in our houses for days and days.
But this one is different.
This one, it’s like most of the people,
they’re just like—they are sad.
Really sad.
Even myself.
I have like—since I was student, I have
issues like with the old regime and, you know,
the troubles in education and everything.
But when Ali Saleh’s got killed, I cried.
Most of the people really cried, men and women.
They feel like, you know, this man has been
our leader for almost—over 35 years.
I am 26.
I was born, and he’s still—like, you know,
he was the president, until I finished the
school, and he’s still the president.
We always look up to him, and he’s our father,
for my generation.
But now, the thing that I noticed, and it’s—I
don’t know—hurt me inside, for real, it’s
like people—like, I don’t know—they
lost hope.
Ali Abdullah Saleh’s death breaks every
single one in the country, because they think
there is no protection anymore.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So that’s a young woman
who goes by the name “Salma,” a 26-year-old,
speaking from Sana’a, the capital of Yemen,
speaking, of course, about former Yemeni President
Ali Abdullah Saleh.
So, Iona, could you respond to what she said,
in particular that his death, Saleh’s death,
“breaks every single one in the country,
because they think there is no protection
anymore”?
IONA CRAIG: I think everybody in Yemen, even
those who hated Ali Abdullah Saleh, were shocked
when he died, that it had happened at all,
but also the way in which he died.
I’m not sure everybody would hold that same
voice.
There are people, particularly in southern
Yemen, who were very pleased to see Ali Abdullah
Saleh go.
But I think everybody now—there is mass
uncertainty of what happens next.
That’s everybody’s question, is: What
happens now that Ali Abdullah Saleh is dead?
And his political party appears to be crumbling,
those who were still loyal to him, as well.
And I think, particularly in Sana’a, people,
over the last 10 days, are incredibly scared.
Trying to communicate with people there is
very difficult.
After Saleh’s death, the Houthis cracked
down on the internet.
It’s not possible to access social media—Twitter,
Facebook, WhatsApp—without a VPN.
And so, people’s ability to communicate
with the outside world has been silenced.
And even when you do—when you are able to
communicate with people, they’re very scared.
They don’t want to talk about politics.
They don’t want to tell you about what’s
going on, because they fear that there will
be reprisals and that the Houthis are going
to be cracking down on anybody who shows still
loyalty to Ali Abdullah Saleh.
And there has been a lot of talk of detentions
in Sana’a over the last 10 days, since Saleh
died, but it’s unclear how many people have
effectively disappeared into the prisons in
Sana’a and how bad that crackdown is, because
getting information out of Sana’a is so
difficult because of the restrictions the
Houthis have placed on internet access over
the last 10 days.
So, yes, people there are incredibly, incredibly
scared and, you know, sort of holding their
breath, really, of what’s going to happen
next in Yemen, after Saleh’s death.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Iona, could you talk about,
speaking of the Houthis, the fact that now
the Trump administration says that they’re
going to share proof that Iran is arming the
Houthi rebels?
What are the implications of that?
And why is the Trump administration making
this claim now?
IONA CRAIG: Yeah, I think the most important
of that is why.
Why is the White House going to be showing
this evidence?
Why is Saudi Arabia not showing that evidence,
or even the Yemeni government showing that
evidence?
And I think the concern is about the answer
to that question.
Is this going to be—is this rhetoric and
this narrative going to be used as some form
of pretext for more U.S. involvement in the
war in Yemen to support any ground operations
by the Saudi-led coalition?
There have been movements, since Saleh’s
death, on the Red Sea coast towards Hudaydah.
A grand operation against Hudaydah port had
been talked about for more than a year, but
under the previous U.S. administration, they
had advised the Saudi-led coalition against
that.
And so, the concern is that this kind of rhetoric
coming out of the White House may be used
as some form of way to support the coalition
in any upcoming ground offensive and to increase
the U.S. involvement in the war in Yemen.
And, of course, that then brings the prospect
of escalation, because it’s highly likely,
if that did happen, that Iran would retaliate.
They may not retaliate in Yemen.
They could retaliate in Syria or Iran.
And that, of course, brings the prospect of
an almost proxy conflict then between the
U.S. and Iran.
So it’s incredibly dangerous.
And I think the timing of it now is also—you
know, it’s dangerous for Yemen, in the sense
that the aid agencies have warned, for a long
time now, about the dangers of pushing militarily
on Hudaydah, because they rely so heavily
on the port to bring in aid to Yemenis at
the moment, but the consequences could be
far-reaching, you know, beyond the borders
of Yemen and for the rest of the region, if
this is going to be now used as some form
of narrative for more U.S. involvement in
targeting the Houthis in Yemen, who Saudi
Arabia, of course, see very much as a proxy
for Iran.
It certainly seems to be that the Houthis
have increased their capabilities on the weapons
side.
The Yemeni arsenal didn’t contain ballistic
missiles that could reach as far as Riyadh
before the war.
And all the indications are that they’ve
received training and maybe military parts,
as well, that have been shipped into or smuggled
into Yemen in order for them to be able to
modify the ballistic missiles that they did
have, in order to fire them into Riyadh and,
as they claim, as well, the Houthis have claimed,
to fire towards the UAE, as well.
AMY GOODMAN: Iona Craig—
IONA CRAIG: So, yes, this kind of talk, it
really points towards escalation, which could
be incredibly dangerous for the region as
a whole.
AMY GOODMAN: We only have 30 seconds, and
Jared Kushner recently went, again, meeting
with his dear friend in Saudi Arabia, Mohammad
bin Salman.
Thomas Friedman hailed him as a visionary,
the crown prince of Saudi Arabia.
His role in what’s happening here, and what
you feel the U.S. should be doing right now?
IONA CRAIG: I think the problem is now, it’s
with the U.S. cozying up more to Saudi Arabia,
being very much on side with the Saudi coalition,
whilst being more hostile towards Iran, really
means that the—getting some kind of dialogue
going on the war on Yemen to bring an end
to the conflict is less and less likely.
And actually, U.S. actions at the moment are
pointing towards a sort of never-ending conflict.
Trying to find an end to the conflict becomes
more difficult, and the U.S. is actually making
it more difficult by this kind of relationship,
very close relationship, with Saudi Arabia,
whilst being much more aggressive in their
rhetoric towards Iran.
And that has a direct consequence on the civilian
population now, who are literally starving
to death in Yemen.
And the U.S. policies at the moment and their
activities are making that worse for Yemenis
on the ground, and will do, if they can’t
get to the point of some form of political
discussion or a ceasefire to at least bring
a halt to hostilities in some way.
And so, yes, the U.S. is actually making the
situation worse in Yemen rather than better.
AMY GOODMAN: And the effect of cholera?
How many people have cholera?
And how is that affected by the Saudi—U.S.-backed
Saudi bombing of Yemen?
IONA CRAIG: Well, the issue with cholera,
actually, the numbers were improving, although
they’re expected to reach a million by the
end of this year, with more than 2,000 people
now having died from the disease.
The bombing of the infrastructure, of water
supplies, has had an impact on that—on hospitals,
the blockading of medical supplies, bringing
them into the country, the blockading of water
purification into the country.
The aid agencies have been bringing in supplies
for that.
That all has an impact on the ability to help
the cholera situation in Yemen.
But now you’re seeing outbreak of more disease.
We’re hearing in the last few days about
diphtheria in Yemen, which hadn’t been recorded
for decades in the country.
And this is all because less than 50 percent
of the country’s medical facilities are
now operating.
And those that are operating, under massive
strain, they can’t get the supplies that
they need.
And the aid agencies can’t bring in the
help that they need to for those kind of situations.
So, yes, it’s not just hunger.
It’s disease.
And I think that’s not just going to be
restricted to cholera now, whilst the hospitals
and medical centers in Yemen struggle to cope
with, basically, the situation that they’re
in because of the conflict, because of the
hospitals that have been bombed, because of
medical facilities that have been put out
of action because of the war.
The healthcare system is basically collapsing
in Yemen at the moment.
And there’s no way to rectify that if aid
agencies can’t get help in to them at the
moment.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Iona, could you also explain,
I mean, as far as this bombing campaign goes,
who are the principal countries—I mean,
the U.S. and the U.K.—who are supplying
arms to Saudi Arabia, and why there isn’t
more pressure on them, given the situation
in Yemen, to cease all sales, or at least
to limit them?
IONA CRAIG: Right.
I mean, obviously, the primary weapon sales
are coming—or weapon arms sales are coming
from the U.S. to Saudi Arabia.
Britain is also involved.
Other European countries are also involved.
Canada is also involved.
I think it’s very lucrative business for
the U.S. and the U.K.
And particularly in the U.K., as well, it’s
not just weapon sales, it’s other investments
from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries
who are part of the coalition, particularly
in the Brexit era, when the British government
is going to be looking beyond Europe now for,
you know, more investment in the country.
So, it’s about maintaining relationships
that have a financial interest, ultimately.
And this has gone on despite clear evidence
of violations of international humanitarian
law that I’ve seen on the ground in Yemen,
and that—the evidence has been collected
by human rights organizations.
And that doesn’t look like it’s going
to stop anytime soon.
There have been ongoing calls, both in the
U.S. and the U.K., for suspensions of weapon
sales.
There was a partial suspension of precision-guided
weapons in the U.S. a year ago, but that has
since been lifted, and they are now selling
precision-guided weapons back to the Saudis
again.
So, there are no indications that either government,
the U.S. or the U.K., is going to change that
policy anytime soon.
But it is a point of leverage, and they could
use that in order to push for dialogue in
this war.
But it’s not being used, and, obviously,
the consequences of that are devastating for
Yemenis.
AMY GOODMAN: And what does the Trump family
gain by this very close relationship with
Saudi Arabia?
Not to diminish the Obama administration and
the number of times he went to Saudi Arabia
and what he had done.
But clearly, you know, the first foreign trip
President Trump took was too Saudi Arabia.
Jared Kushner has been there a number of times,
his closeness with the crown prince, Mohammad
bin Salman.
What do the Trumps gain?
IONA CRAIG: Again, this is a lot of—you
know, based on financial interests and economic
interests.
And this is the really disheartening thing
about it, because that’s at the expense
of millions of Yemenis who are literally starving
to death, that the interests of those people
and the lives of those people is being—is
being seen as inferior to the economic interests
of the U.S. and the financial interests of
the Trump administration.
So, yeah, it brings a lot of questions about
just the moral compass, really, of societies
and our governments, really, the U.S. and
the U.K., in this, about the direction that
this takes, because we are all now well aware
of the humanitarian situation in Yemen right
now and how many millions of people are suffering
the situation of famine on the ground and
the likely numbers of people who are going
to starve to death, but yet our governments
are still willing to hold very close relationships
with Saudi Arabia and, for financial interests,
maintain that relationship, at the cost of
many hundreds of thousands of lives in Yemen.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Iona Craig, before we conclude,
could you say what you think the prospects
are for a negotiated settlement?
And what would be required for talks to resume?
IONA CRAIG: Unfortunately, I think, after
the death of Ali Abdullah Saleh, the likelihood
of dialogue or any end to the conflict has
actually moved further away rather than closer.
When Saleh had switched allegiances and shown
his support for the Saudi-led coalition, that
was a window of opportunity for the Saudi
coalition to remove themselves from the conflict.
And that window has now been closed.
And there is no indication that the Houthis
are going to take that up, that they have
any interest in any kind of dialogue at the
moment.
And so, the war, unfortunately, it will ramble
on.
Aid agencies, in the meanwhile, are at least
calling for some kind of cessation of hostilities,
just so that they can boost imports into the
country, to bring in more aid and to also
help commercial imports get into the country.
But there’s no indication of that happening,
as well.
And so, any prospect of any kind of dialogue
looks very, very remote at the moment.
AMY GOODMAN: Iona Craig, we want to thank
you for being with us, journalist who was
based in Sana’a from 2010 to '15, Yemen
correspondent for The Times of London.
Her new piece, we'll link to, in The Guardian,
headlined “Bombed into famine: How Saudi
air campaign targets Yemen’s food supplies.”
And we—you can also go to Part 1 of our
discussion with Iona Craig at democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
Thanks for joining us.
