This is Democracy Now!
Democracynow.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show looking at the historic
peace effort in East Africa between Ethiopia
and Eritrea, where leaders of the neighboring
countries have signed a “Joint Declaration
of Peace and Friendship” and declared an
end to nearly two decades of a “state of
war.”
From 1998 to 2000, Ethiopia and Eritrea fought
a border war in which 70,000 people were killed.
Since then, ongoing disputes had kept the
two countries in a state of conflict.
On Thursday, the pro-government Eritrean Press
agency announced on its Facebook page Eritrea
has withdrawn its troops from the heavily
militarized border with Ethiopia as a, quote,
“gesture of reconciliation.”
On Wednesday, the first direct flights between
Ethiopia and Eritrea in 20 years took off
from Addis Ababa, headed to Eritrea’s capital
Asmara.
The majority of the flights’ passengers
were members of families separated by the
long-running “state of war” between the
two countries.
This is an Eritrean passenger, Abraham Tilahun.
It has been like 22 years.
And, you know, because of the fight between
Ethiopia and Eritrea, we had no even address
to communicate with our family.
But since Ethiopia and Eritrea create peace,
we have come here.
I have come here to look for my grandfamily.
And I have a business in Addis, so I am planning
to open sister company in Asmara, as well.
Meanwhile, on Monday, Eritrea reopened its
embassy in Ethiopia.
Ethiopia’s prime minister and Eritrea’s
president spoke at the event in Addis Ababa.
[translated] Forgiveness is to count the trespasses,
the pushes and pains caused against you in
today’s and tomorrow’s journey.
Even if the offender doesn’t ask for forgiveness,
the offended has the right to forgive.
It is not necessary to have a recipient to
make forgiveness.
Forgiveness gives mental relief for the offender,
and the liberty of the soul for the offended.
[translated] Because of our past historical
and cultural synergy, we have overcome the
plot to spread hate and revenge among ourselves.
And we are determined to move forward together
to register in development, prosperity and
stability in all aspects.
Well, for more on this historic peace deal
and what comes next, we’re joined by two
guests.
Awol Allo is a frequent Ethiopian political
commentator, lecturer at the Keele University
School of Law in Staffordshire, England.
His recent article for Al Jazeera is headlined
“Torture, state terrorism and Ethiopia’s
transformation.”
And joining us from London, Vanessa Berhe,
an Eritrean human rights activist, who founded
the group One Day Seyoum, which campaigns
for the release of her uncle, an Eritrean
photojournalist who’s been imprisoned since
2001.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
We’re going to begin right now with Awol
Allo.
Can you talk about the significance of this
coming together of Eritrea and Ethiopia?
I mean, you know, as you said, this is such
a historic, I think, coming together of two
countries who have such a strong connection,
one of the most, you know, proximate societies
you could find around the world.
So, for these countries to go beyond the kind
of pain, the traumas and sufferings of that—the
suffering that is induced by that senseless
war and absolutely meaningless war, and to
get to a place where the two countries and
their leaders can stand together and say,
you know, “We have been deprived of those
very important moments of togetherness, and
now is the time to move forward and forge
a better future for both countries,” I think
that is a historic and extremely significant
move, not just for the two countries, but
also for the broader region.
Can you talk about how this was accomplished,
for people who are not familiar with the history
between Ethiopia and Eritrea?
So, Ethiopia and Eritrea are two of the most
closely connected countries.
And the reason is, Eritrea was part of Ethiopia
until 1991.
Before 1991, there were several movements
that had been fighting against the Ethiopian
government, and one of the most strongest
movement was the movement that was fighting
for the liberation of Eritrea, led by the
current Eritrean president, Isaias Afwerki;
and several movements fighting on the Ethiopian
side, and the strongest movement that was
fighting on the Ethiopian side was the Tigrayan
Liberation Movement, which was led by the
former Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi.
It was led by other people over the course
of time, but it was Isaias Afwerki of Eritrea
and Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia that finally
brought down the Ethiopian government.
So, these are people that knew each other
very well, who fought against the Ethiopian
government, shoulder to shoulder.
About seven years after Eritrea became—about
around eight years after Eritrea became independent,
there were disagreements around a range of
political and economic policy issues between
the two leaderships, and the two leaderships
were not able to solve their differences peacefully.
And they used Badme, which is really a desolate
piece of land that is hardly good for anything,
as a pretext to go to war.
And it was one of the most senseless and meaningless
wars, precisely because there was absolutely
no justification for those two countries,
two people, to go to war to resolve those
disputes.
So, by the end of the war, the two countries
agreed to settle their disputes peacefully.
And one important component of that peace
resolution was to submit their differences
to a Ethiopia-Eritrea Boundary Commission,
an independent boundary commission that would
look at all the legal issues unsettled.
And both countries agreed that the decision
of the commission would be final and binding
for both countries.
And the commission looked at the matter and
reached their conclusion, essentially giving
Badme to Eritrea and some other territories,
which were previously part of Eritrea, to
Ethiopia.
And then the Ethiopian government essentially
refused to abide by the decision, citing a
number of technicalities.
And, obviously, what we had was a “no peace,
no war” situation, both countries bent on
destabilizing one another, not just these
two countries, but also within the region.
And I think the 2006 war between Ethiopia
and Somalia, when Ethiopia entered Somalia,
was very much a proxy war between Ethiopia
and Eritrea.
So, that destabilized the region.
It also significantly affected the democratic
landscape between—within both Ethiopia and
Eritrea.
And where did the United States fit into this
picture, in its relationships with Ethiopia
and Eritrea?
So, Ethiopia is a very large country, had
very strong diplomatic clout.
Ethiopia used the global “war on terror”
very strategically.
It deliberately manufactured a crisis in the
region to get the United States and the Europeans
on its side.
It became almost one of the—almost the kind
of policeman and a key counterterrorism ally
of the United States in the Horn of Africa.
And as a result, Ethiopia received financial
and economic as well as technical support
from the United States.
But at the same time, there was a process
of isolating and sidelining Eritrea by the
Ethiopian government.
So, the United States’ role was not constructive
at all.
And the number of sanctions that were imposed
against Eritrea, by and large, they were the
concerted efforts of Ethiopia and the United
States government.
So, the Ethiopian government used the discourse
and the language of the “war on terror”
not just to isolate Eritrea by presenting
itself as the only power that can provide
stability in the Horn of Africa, but also
to engage in plans of repression within Ethiopia
itself.
So, the U.S. role has not been constructive
at all.
And I don’t think the U.S. actually played
any part in the current rapprochement between
the two countries.
If the U.S. played any role, it was very,
very marginal.
This is, I think, the success of two countries,
two African countries, without needing the
support or babysitting of Western governments,
sitting together, hammering out key issues.
And they have reached, I think, a very important
milestone.
We’ll see where they can go from here.
But I think everything, you know, from those
clips that you played earlier, suggests that
there is such a strong desire and a wish on
the part of both countries to move forward.
This is Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed
speaking earlier this month.
[translated] If there is peace between Ethiopian
and Eritrean people, the Horn of Africa region
will be a region of peace and development.
Our people, who live scattered as refugees
in humiliation, will come back with dignity.
Our citizens will not be sold in exchange
like commodities.
In addition to Awol Allo, the Ethiopian commentator
and lecturer at Keele University School of
Law in Britain, Vanessa Berhe is with us,
Eritrean human rights activist, whose uncle,
an Eritrean photojournalist, was imprisoned
in 2001 and has been there ever since, close
to—what?—17 years now.
Vanessa, your thoughts on this historic moment?
For me, the war with Ethiopia or the situation
with Ethiopia is only relevant in its relationship
to the situation in Eritrea.
Eritrea today is considered to be one of the
worst dictatorships in the entire world.
And the government has justified the situation
in Eritrea by using this war.
So, peace, for me, does not necessarily mean
peace between Ethiopians and Eritreans.
That’s not my main priority.
My main priority is peace for the Eritrean
people, peace in Eritrea in their lives, when
it comes to education, when it comes to national
service, when it comes to freedom of movement
or comes to freedom of religion—peace for
them.
And to this extent, we haven’t seen any
kind of remarks regarding the situation in
Eritrea.
And until that point has come, I can’t celebrate,
and I can’t be optimistic about this peace.
Vanessa, can you talk about your uncle and
what has happened to him?
So, following the war, in 2000—1998 to 2000,
the Eritrean government decided to turn the
country into a dictatorship.
They shut down the free press, imprisoned
dissident voices, journalists, politicians,
who had been criticizing the government’s
actions and their postponement of the elections.
And my uncle was one of the journalists who
was imprisoned then.
None of the people have been released, but
given a trial.
Family members have not been able to visit
them or get any information about their whereabouts.
And he has been in prison, together with his
colleagues, now for 17 years.
And I’ve been advocating for him from abroad
for now five years, and we haven’t gotten
any information from the government.
Every time we’ve been submitting legal documents,
we’ve been advocating for him and for his
colleagues at forums, at conferences, at the
U.N., at the African Union, the reply that
we always get is that the second the war with
Ethiopia ends, the second this conflict, the
border dispute, is over, everything will go
back to normal.
Your uncle will be released.
National service—indefinite national service
will end.
The free press will be opened again.
Elections will happen.
These are the promises that we’ve been given
from the government in Eritrea, and these
are the promises that we’re still waiting
to be not only implemented, but even addressed.
Seyoum Tsehaye, your uncle, was the head of,
one of the founders of Eritrean state television?
Yep.
He was a—during the war, he was a war photographer,
and he was one of the most prominent war photographers.
He trained up a lot of the other war photographers
and documented the war with Ethiopia.
After the war, he became—like you said,
founded and was the director of ERI-TV, the
state television, and later became a documentary
maker.
A lot of his work is still being used by the
Eritrean government, but his name is not being
put there.
His photographs are hanging up in the museums.
They’re on television.
They’re being sold as postcards.
But his name has been deleted.
And their attempt to erase him from the Eritrean
memory has been very, very efficient, unfortunately.
And that is why I campaign for him.
That is why other people campaign for him
and people like him in Eritrea.
A global survey released Thursday on conflict,
government repression and modern slavery found
North Korea and Eritrea have the world’s
highest rates of enslaved people.
The 2018 Global Slavery Index, published by
the human rights group Walk Free Foundation,
found the Eritrean government is a, quote,
“repressive regime that the abuses its conscription
system to hold its citizens in forced labor
for decades.”
Can you explain what this conscription system
is?
Describe its impact on people fleeing the
country.
So, as I mentioned before, after the war ended,
the government decided to use the war as justification
for several of their policies—the shutdown
of the free press, the fact that the National
Assembly, the parliament, has been called.
Another thing that they implemented then was
indefinite national service.
National service is supposed to be 18 months.
But 'til this day, it's indefinite.
People are enlisted, and then they’re never
released.
And they’re sent out to places in the country
where they have no connection to, and on an
indefinite basis.
People have children, people have families,
not only to be with, but also to feed.
And the amount of money that they get is so
limited that people are dependent on outside
sources, so family members, friends from abroad.
And this has been referred to as one of the
main reasons why people leave the country.
Over 5,000 people, according to UNHCR, leave
Eritrea every month.
And a lot of them are young people, young
people who were inscripted when they were
extremely young, their last year of high school.
And then, after that, they’re forced to
stay, if they do not finish their tests—or,
if they do not get their—file results for
their tests where they can start colleges.
But the university has been shut down.
And they’ve been placed in colleges, if
they receive the right marks.
If they do not receive the right marks, they
are enlisted into this national service program.
And it isn’t just the fact that it’s indefinite.
It’s the fact that the conditions there
are completely, completely horrible.
Rape and all these different kind of human
rights abuses have been documented and have
also been, like you mentioned, criticized
by foreign groups, because there are no NGOs
in Eritrea right now.
NGOs are forbidden by the government.
So, the United Nations, for example, released
a report likening this national service program
to slavery.
I wanted to turn to the story of Zeresenay
Ermias Testfatsion, who sought asylum in the
United States after fleeing his home country
of Eritrea.
He was detained here for more than a year.
He was then deported back to Eritrea.
And going through the Cairo airport in Egypt,
he took his own life.
He died by suicide.
I spoke to Zeresenay’s friend Bereket Sibhatu,
who would meet with him as a volunteer translator
at the Broward Transitional Center in South
Florida.
It’s immigrant detention center.
Did he tell you what he most feared if he
were deported to Eritrea?
What he said in his testimony is he said if
he—they asked him, the lawyers, what would
happen if he go back to Eritrea.
He said, “I might go jail or tortured, might
be even get killed.”
Do you believe that the U.S. deporting Zeresenay
was a death sentence for him?
That’s what I believe, because if they know—if
they know Eritrea is not the right place right
now, you cannot deport to Eritrea, why Zeresenay
has to get deported?
For that situation, he ended up killing himself.
Bereket Sibhatu, the friend of Zeresenay,
again, held in the U.S. He was applying for
political asylum.
He was denied.
He was deported, and took his own life on
his way back to Eritrea.
I wanted to put that question to Awol Allo.
What will happen to the situation in Eritrea
that Vanessa has described?
I think the dividends for peace are not just
the economic and political security in relation
to this areas.
And I think there is also a human rights,
democracy, rule of law-related dividend that
comes out of this.
And the reason is, as Vanessa indicated, the
Eritrean government consistently used the
security situation, this “no war, no peace”
situation with Ethiopia, as a justification
not only to keep such a large number of army,
but also to completely repress the domestic
political environment.
Now, if the security situation with Ethiopia
is no longer there, if the two countries could
have a peaceful kind of relationship, the
Eritrean government would have no justification
whatsoever.
And I think that, in and of itself, the fact
that Eritrea would not have that kind of very
clear, visible justification that it can point
to, means that this is a political win for
human rights and democracy in Eritrea, as
well.
The second point is, even if Eritrea had a
genuine concern that Ethiopia poses such a
significant security threat, to the point
that Eritrea has to keep such a large army
and repressive domestic environment, then
that genuine justification no longer exists,
and I think all eyes would be on the Eritrean
government to see what it would do in terms
of opening up the political process.
And I think some of the actions that we have
already seen, within such a short span of
time, which is releasing, for example, religious—members
of religious, particular, certain religious
communities which are persecuted in Eritrea,
and I think that, in and of itself, is a very
important step.
But, you know, at the end of the day, I think
what would happen to the question of democracy
and human rights within Eritrea is really
up to the Eritrean people and the Eritrean
government.
The Ethiopian state had been in exactly the
same situation until very recently.
There are still—the changes that we see
in Ethiopia are quite fragile, and there’s
no guarantee that Ethiopia will be a democracy.
But the Ethiopian people fought, they paid
the price, to bring about the kind of change
that we see now.
So, the decision as to what the future will
hold in Ethiopia is not entirely up to the
government now.
It’s also in the hands of the people.
The people have clearly shown that they cannot
tolerate a system that does not hear, that
does not listen to the will of the people.
Vanessa Berhe, I’m going to give you the
last word, Eritrean human rights activist
whose own uncle, the Eritrean photojournalist
Seyoum Tsehaye, imprisoned since 2001.
So you have the U.S. deporting people applying
for political asylum back to Eritrea.
You have your uncle’s situation, other people
in jail.
Do you think the peace deal can improve the
situation at all?
And what are you calling for?
I call for the implementation of the constitution.
Since the war ended, the Eritrean government
has refused to implement the constitution
and refused to implement the rule of law in
Eritrea.
The country is completely ruled by fear, not
by law, as the U.N. report has said.
And the people of Eritrea deserve so much
better than this.
Prisoners need to be released.
The youth need to be, you know, taken out
from the national service and getting autonomy
over their own lives.
And the Eritrean government has to step down,
and power has to be transferred to the people.
And that is what I call for.
Well, I want to thank you both for being with
us.
Vanessa Berhe is an Eritrean human rights
activist, whose uncle, an Eritrean photojournalist,
has been in prison since 2001.
Awol Allo is a commentator and teaches at
Keele University in Britain, the University
School of Law.
As we report on the historic peace deal between
Ethiopia and Eritrea, and we’ll continue
to cover what happens there in East Africa.
When we come back, thousands and thousands
of children remain separated from their parents.
What is the U.S. government doing to reunite
them—a government that separated them in
the first place?
Stay with us.
