AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracynow.org,
the war and peace report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show in Helsinki, where
President Trump is holding a summit with Russian
President Vladimir Putin, beginning with a
one-on-one, 90-minute meeting.
Only their translators are attending the meeting
with Trump and Putin.
Putin kept Trump waiting for the summit by
landing in Finland about an hour late.
Trump faces pressure to confront Putin over
Kremlin meddling in the 2016 election, after
a grand jury Friday indicted 12 Russian intelligence
officers for their alleged role in hacking
email accounts controlled by the Democratic
National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s
presidential campaign.
We’ll talk more about the U.S. relations
with Russia later in the broadcast, when we
host a debate between Glenn Greenwald as well
as our guest who is head of the Ploughshares
Fund, Joe Cirincione.
But first we look at the protests that have
greeted both Putin and Trump in Finland.
As the two leaders drove from the airport
to their summit separately, they were met
by 300 billboards, in English and Russian,
that were posted by the country’s leading
newspaper, Helsingin Sanomat, and drew attention
to their strained relations with the media.
A poster at the airport read “Mr. President,
welcome to the land of free press,” and
others used headlines from the newspaper,
like “Trump calls media the enemy of the
people,” “Putin shuts down Russia’s
largest news agency.”
This morning, Greenpeace activists unfolded
two large banners from the bell tower of Kallio
in Helsinki that called on the presidents
to, quote, “Warm Our Hearts, Not Our Planet.”
On Sunday, the Russian protest group Pussy
Riot ran onto the field of play in the World
Cup final game, hosted by Russia.
They later released demands that included
“Free political prisoners,” “Do not
put people in jail for social media 'likes,'”
and “Allow political competition in Russia.”
Meanwhile, in Helsinki Sunday, thousands took
to the streets to demand human rights, equality
and a focus on the climate.
Today, protests continue as the meeting between
Trump and Putin gets underway at the Presidential
Palace in Helsinki.
For more, we go to Helsinki, where we’re
joined by Heidi Hautala, the Finnish politician,
member of the European Parliament from Finland.
She spoke at the major protest on Sunday.
She’s also a member of the Green League,
part of the European Green Party.
Welcome to Democracy Now!
You are right next to the palace where Trump
and Putin are meeting.
Can you talk about what your message for Trump
and Putin are, as this meeting—as this summit
gets underway?
HEIDI HAUTALA: Yeah, thank you very much,
and good morning to New York.
Actually, I would be in New York City at the
moment, but I’m not, because normally I
have to stay in my home city when Trump and
Putin are here, but otherwise I would have
been to the U.N.
High-level Policy Forum on Sustainable Development.
So, what is at stake here?
We organized the event, Helsinki Calling,
yesterday in order to say that now is time
to defend democracy and human rights, and
that the two leaders, both in their own perverse
ways, are a threat to democracy and human
rights.
So, this is what is at stake here.
AMY GOODMAN: So, you are criticizing both
Putin and Trump.
Can you talk about, more specifically, what
is at stake?
As the statement was made by both Trump and
Putin, as they go into this private meeting,
just the two of them with their translators
before bringing in some of their aides, President
Trump said that he—that Russia and the United
States have 90 percent of nuclear weapons;
that’s a bad thing, not a good thing; but
communicating with Putin is also not a bad
thing, it’s a good thing.
Rather, just to get this straight, he said
having 90 percent of the nuclear weapons between
Russia and the U.S. is a bad thing, not a
good thing.
And then he said the opposite for their meeting.
HEIDI HAUTALA: Obviously, the hopes here are
that the two presidents would start again
talking about nuclear disarmament, because
the world is probably in a more dangerous
situation concerning nuclear weapons as ever
before.
But now, to answer your question about what
is at stake, more specifically, with both
presidents, let’s start with Vladimir Putin,
who is, of course, the leader, since 18 years,
of our neighboring Russia.
He has basically eroded the last hopes of
democracy and respect of rule of law and human
rights in the country.
We know very well that in Russia today there
are 158 political prisoners.
We have been calling for the release of them
yesterday in our event on human rights.
And we obviously are very worried that in
Russia there is no space for opposition, no
freedom of speech.
And that’s why the campaign, that you mentioned,
by the leading Helsinki Sanomat is wonderful.
It really deserves applause, because they
are reminded of the wrongdoings of Mr. Putin
against freedom of press and freedom of speech,
but also of Mr. Trump, who almost every time
when he meets the press, he likes to call
some of them “dishonest,” like in the
Britain during his visit, or he calls them
“enemy of the people.”
So, we need to be very careful, because these
kind of statements are a real danger for freedom
of expression.
So, this is one very important aspect, that
both are a danger for free speech.
AMY GOODMAN: In an interview with CBS at his
Turnberry golf course in Scotland on Sunday,
Trump was asked who he considers to be a foe.
To the surprise of many, his number-one foe
was the European Union.
This is what he said.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Well, I think we have
a lot of foes.
I think the European Union is a foe, what
they do to us in trade.
Now, you wouldn’t think of the European
Union, but they’re a foe.
Russia is a foe in certain respects.
China is a foe.
Economically, certainly, they’re a foe.
AMY GOODMAN: Heidi Hautala, you are the vice
president of the European Parliament.
Can you respond?
HEIDI HAUTALA: Yes, absolutely.
I think it’s really from a very outdated
worldview that you call allies foes and enemies.
He, of course, softened a little bit his statement
by saying that this is about trade, and he
continues to repeat that the EU is, in his
view, very bad for the United States and its
economy, although I also think that this is
very much exaggerated and it’s not true.
But, of course, it’s very worrying that
the European Union has been the closest ally
of the United States for decades, and the
United States has been unequivocally supporting
European integration, and now we have a president
who actually likes the European Union to be
disintegrated, which we saw lastly during
his visit in the U.K., where he criticized
and advised Prime Minister May to be more
tough, even to sue the EU, because of this
conflict concerning Brexit.
And then, if we look at Mr. Putin, it’s
exactly the same.
He also likes to see a weak European Union.
And it’s very well known that Russia is
supporting right-wing—extreme right-wing
parties in European member states in order
to put in question European integration through
these parties.
And at the same time, he has a law on foreign
agents which makes almost every organization
and media outlet criminal if they are receiving
foreign financing.
So, what is this?
This is a real sort of collapse of any morale.
This is a super example of double standards
from his side.
AMY GOODMAN: Helsinki has hosted numerous
Cold War-era negotiations between the United
States and, well, what was then the Soviet
Union.
Can you talk about that history and the meaning
of today’s summit?
I mean, even that word was questioned, until
Trump repeated it over and over, that it is
a summit, even if he did not have an exact
agenda for it.
The distinction between protesting these leaders
and whether or not the summit itself is being
protested?
HEIDI HAUTALA: Helsinki does have a history
of summits between the Soviet Union and Russia,
and, even after the collapse of the Soviet
Union, between Russia and the United States.
But, of course, this is not the same Finland.
Finland used to be a country that had to declare
itself neutral in order to survive next to
a big neighbor, Russia—or the Soviet Union,
rather.
And this is long overdue to believe that Finland
is the same neutral country.
I can imagine that Mr. Putin agreed to have
this summit in Helsinki because he definitely
wants to come to a non-NATO member country.
It is true Finland is not a non-NATO member
country, but Finland has, since the collapse
of the Soviet Union, very, very vehemently
objected to any kind of a forced neutrality.
And as an EU member state, as, I would say,
a proud EU member state, it is, of course,
politically aligned with the EU and has an
extremely close cooperation with NATO.
AMY GOODMAN: Even though a lot of the corporate
networks are based there today, massive number
of journalists are in Helsinki, in the United
States there’s very little coverage of the
thousands of people in the streets and, in
the main bell tower, this banner that says,
“Warm Our Hearts, Not [Our] Planet.”
Talk about the message of the protesters,
also—you’re a member of the Green Party—what
specifically you’re calling for now, a few
years after—well, a year after President
Trump has pulled out of the Paris climate
agreement.
HEIDI HAUTALA: Yes, indeed.
You mention a very, very important sore point.
And this whole show, which I hope is not only
going to be a show, but it’s a sign that
the two leaders, they couldn’t care less
about the future of this planet.
Basically, they care about themselves, their
power, their future.
And this is very, very irresponsible, because
in every corner of the planet, we start to
see that climate change is an existential
threat to the people and the planet.
And if these two leaders will not talk about
it, then we will speak about these things
in the streets and in the squares.
And that’s what we’re doing.
And secondly, we need to talk about human
rights, because both are eroding human rights.
Both are a danger to rule of law and democracy.
So, even if we don’t have hopes that the
two presidents will take up these issues and
start to defend democracy, we need to radiate
this message through the international attention
we can now have by the side of this summit,
and maybe slowly these things become more
important, that also the leaders have to take
them seriously.
AMY GOODMAN: Trump is coming out of meeting
with NATO, which he fiercely attacked, not
so much the organization NATO, but that countries
weren’t spending enough money on their militaries,
and specifically naming U.S. weapons manufacturers,
like a weapons sales show, saying they should
be spending far more.
As a Green Party member and a politician,
your response?
HEIDI HAUTALA: Basically, this is also something
that Trump is trying to impose on the EU countries
and other NATO member states.
And it shows that a large motivation for him
in NATO cooperation is the success of the
American weapons industries.
And this is very dangerous for world peace.
Now, let’s hope that the European Union
will take a lesson of all this, of all this
uncertainty, unpredictability that President
Trump is bringing to NATO cooperation, and
will start to rely more on its own defense
policy.
And this is also something that Finland very
much hopes for.
And in a couple of last years, there’s been
quite a big step towards a common European
defense, also in terms of innovation and research,
so—and defense material.
So, probably the best lesson from Trump’s
unpredictability is that the EU would finally
get its act together more on the defense side,
as well.
AMY GOODMAN: What do you want to come out
of this summit today?
HEIDI HAUTALA: Well, to be realistic, I don’t
expect that climate change, the global poverty
will hit the nerves of these two leaders.
But there’s maybe some slight hope that
they will agree to come back to negotiation
tables in order to come back to disarmament
negotiations, because, indeed, some very important
international agreements between the two countries
will run out in 2021, the so-called New START
agreement.
So we need to be secured of continuation of
and coming back to the negotiation tables
on disarmament.
So, my faint hope is that this might be the
best outcome of the summit, which we will
hear about very soon.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think it’s a good thing
or a bad thing that they’re meeting?
HEIDI HAUTALA: I think it’s a good thing.
I think the people that I am working with
all think that dialogue is important.
But dialogue on what is, of course, very important.
But there’s now the world’s attention
on the two leaders, while I think people all
over, our countries—the United States, the
European Union, maybe even in Russia to some
extent—people are more aware of the global
threats that really would need to be discussed
by such leaders.
So, it’s a good thing that they talk, at
least that they start talking, because this
has been going on for eight years without
any real dialogue between the two countries.
AMY GOODMAN: Heidi Hautala—
HEIDI HAUTALA: And we, as an EU country, Finland—
AMY GOODMAN: Go ahead.
HEIDI HAUTALA: Hello?
AMY GOODMAN: Yes, go ahead.
HEIDI HAUTALA: No, I just wanted to say that
I think it’s a good thing that Finland can
host this important opportunity to start a
dialogue between the two.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you so
much for joining us, Heidi Hautala, Finnish
politician, vice president of the European
Parliament, from Finland, member of the Green
League, part of the European Green Party,
one of the major speakers at one of the protest
rallies, the main one, held on Sunday in Helsinki,
standing in front of the Presidential Palace,
where Presidents Trump and Putin are holding
their summit.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we’ll be joined, for
a debate, by Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist
Glenn Greenwald and peace leader Joe Cirincione,
head of the Ploughshares Fund.
Stay with us.
