AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
We begin today’s show in Alabama, where
Democrat Doug Jones and Republican Roy Moore
are locked in a tight and increasingly controversial
race to fill the Alabama Senate seat left
vacant by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
The election is Tuesday.
A Democrat hasn’t won a U.S. Senate race
in Alabama for 20 years.
Polling shows the two candidates are neck
and neck, despite Moore being accused by at
least nine women of sexually harassing or
assaulting them when they were teenagers.
One of the women says Moore removed her shirt
and pants, then touched her over her bra and
underwear, when she was 14 years old.
She says she recalls thinking, “I wanted
it over with.
I wanted out.
Please just get this over with.
Whatever this is, just get it over.”
President Trump has repeatedly endorsed the
accused child molester Roy Moore, including
on Friday, when he held a rally in Pensacola,
Florida, which is 20 miles from the Alabama
border and in the same media market as Mobile,
Alabama.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: We want jobs, jobs,
jobs.
So get out and vote for Roy Moore.
Do it.
Do it.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s President Trump speaking
Friday.
He has also recorded a robocall endorsing
Roy Moore.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Hi.
This is President Donald Trump, and I need
Alabama to go vote for Roy Moore.
It is so important.
We’re already making America great again.
I’m going to make America safer and stronger
and better than ever before.
But we need that seat.
We need Roy voting for us.
AMY GOODMAN: Roy Moore has had a long and
highly controversial political career in Alabama
that’s been marked by racism, homophobia,
Islamophobia, religious fanaticism.
Judge Moore was twice ousted as Alabama’s
chief justice, first in 2003 for refusing
to remove a monument of the Ten Commandments
in the rotunda of the Alabama Judicial Building.
After being re-elected, he was again ousted
in 2016, for ordering his judges to defy the
U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling legalizing marriage
equality.
He was a proponent of Trump’s racist and
discredited “birther” theory about President
Obama.
He’s compared homosexuality to bestiality.
He said Minnesota Congressmember Keith Ellison
shouldn’t have been allowed to be sworn
into Congress using a Qur’an, which he compared
to Mein Kampf.
In 2011, Roy Moore proposed eliminating all
amendments after the 10th, which includes
amendments prohibiting slavery and the amendments
giving women and African Americans the right
to vote.
In September, when asked at a campaign rally
when he thought America was last great, Moore
said, quote, “I think it was great at the
time when families were united—even though
we had slavery—they cared for one another.
… Our families were strong, our country
had a direction.”
Over the weekend, the Doug Jones campaign
orchestrated a massive get-out-the-vote effort,
particularly targeting African-American voters.
A number of prominent African-American politicians,
including New Jersey Senator Cory Booker,
Alabama Congressmember Terri Sewell, former
Massachusetts Democratic Governor Deval Patrick,
all campaigned for Jones across the state
of Alabama.
Jones’ campaign ads are also highlighting
his history as a U.S. attorney in the 1990s,
when he prosecuted the Ku Klux Klan, the members
who bombed 16th [Street] Baptist Church in
Birmingham, killing four young girls.
On Sunday, Alabama Republican Senator Richard
Shelby said he could not vote for his fellow
Republican, Roy Moore.
SEN.
RICHARD SHELBY: I couldn’t vote for Roy
Moore.
I didn’t vote for Roy Moore.
… I understand where the president is coming
from.
I understand we would like to retain that
seat in the U.S. Senate.
But I tell you what, I—there’s a time,
it’s—we call it a tipping point.
And I think so many accusations, so many cuts,
so many drip, drip, drip, when it got to the
14-year-old’s story, that was enough for
me.
I said, “I can’t vote for Roy Moore.”
AMY GOODMAN: That was Senator Richard Shelby
of Alabama, a Republican.
For more, we go to Washington, D.C., where
we’re joined by Peter Montgomery, senior
fellow at People for the American Way, his
most recent piece headlined “There’s More
Than One Roy Moore Scandal.”
Talk about Roy Moore, Peter Montgomery.
You also wrote the piece, “Roy Moore: A
History of Bigotry, Extremism and Contempt
for the Rule of Law.”
But talk about the scandals around the former
Alabama judge.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Well, your introduction
did a great job outlining some of them.
I think it’s scandalous that we have the
Republican Party and a president supporting
someone for the Senate whose whole career
has demonstrated such contempt for core constitutional
principles and the rule of law.
And that’s before you consider the allegations
that are made by a number of women about him
preying on and molesting teenage girls.
Roy Moore has a long record of violating court
orders when he disagrees with them and when
he thinks they violate his biblical worldview.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, you’ve done a comprehensive
look at his history.
Go back to the beginning and talk about what
you know about Roy Moore.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Well, Roy Moore went to
law school after he had gone to West Point
and served in Vietnam.
And after he got out of law school, he became
an assistant district attorney, which is when
he has allegedly involved in preying on teenage
girls.
And after that, he became a state judge in
Etowah County, in the northeastern part of
the state.
And that’s when he had his first big controversy
over his misuse of the court to promote his
religious beliefs.
He hung a handmade plaque of the Ten Commandments
in his courtroom, and he was beginning sessions
with jurors with Christian prayers.
And he was very explicit about the fact that
others could join him in prayer, but only
if they were Christians, because he wouldn’t
allow Muslims or Buddhists, because they don’t
worship the right god.
And so there was a lot of controversy over
that at the time.
This is the late 1990s.
And religious right leaders from around the
country came and rallied around him.
And he sort of used that at his—as the launching
point of his political career and his first
run for chief justice, which he was elected
in 2000.
AMY GOODMAN: And talk about being removed
from the bench, in both cases, and what that
means for a chief justice to be removed from
the Alabama bench.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Obviously, that’s something
very extraordinary.
Here you have someone who is elected by the
voters, who is the top judge in the state
Supreme Court, and his fellow judges took
steps to remove him for violating his professional
responsibilities.
The first time, he had, again, played on his
support for the Ten Commandments and his desire
to use the courts to promote his religious
beliefs and his religious worldview.
He had this huge Ten Commandments monument
carved out of granite and brought into the
state courthouse that he presided over.
And when a federal—when a court ordered
him to remove that, he refused.
And so, for defying the court order, he was
removed by his fellow judges.
And it’s interesting that Moore loves to
say that he is the victim of persecution by,
you know, radical liberals and LGBT people,
but he was removed by other state judges from
Alabama, and I don’t think that’s a hotbed
of left-wing radicalism.
Then, a decade after he was kicked out, he
was elected again.
And this time, he was challenged because he
started to order lower judges in the state
to ignore, first, in 2015, a federal judge,
who ruled in favor of marriage equality in
the state.
And then, later, when the Supreme Court of
the United States had the Obergefell decision,
which endorsed marriage equality across the
country, he again told judges that they should
not follow that order.
And that was crossing the line the second
time.
And he was suspended permanently from his
job that time.
AMY GOODMAN: On the issue of homosexuality,
Roy Moore has compared homosexuality to bestiality.
Can you talk about President Trump’s endorsement
of Roy Moore?
And did this surprise you, Peter Montgomery?
PETER MONTGOMERY: I’m not sure if there’s
anything President Trump can do anymore that
surprises me.
And it doesn’t surprise me that he supported
Roy Moore, because Roy Moore has praised President
Trump, has positioned himself as someone who
wants to help President Trump make America
great again.
And Trump wants his vote in the Senate.
I do think that it’s scandalous that the
Republican Party has gone along with Trump
and supported someone who is as extreme as
Roy Moore is.
And I think they really need to be held accountable
for it.
On the issue of gay rights and LGBT people,
Moore is utterly opposed to the core constitutional
principle of equality under the law.
And it’s not just about opposition to gay
marriage for him.
He wants to make homosexuality criminal.
He wants to go back to the days when being
gay was, per se, a criminal act.
And he has backed up that kind of thinking
as a judge.
He supported, in 2002, taking a child away
from a woman because she was a lesbian.
And he said that anybody who participates
in such an inherently evil act as homosexuality
is inherently an unfit parent.
And that’s pretty terrifying.
AMY GOODMAN: Earlier this year, Roy Moore
called for the removal of the judge who struck
down Trump’s ban on transgender people in
the military, saying her decision was completely
“ridiculous” and “a clear example of
judicial activism.”
Moore’s statement said, “Judge Kollar-Kotelly
should be impeached by the House of Representatives
for unlawful usurpation of power … Not only
has she placed herself above the Constitution
… but she has also interfered with the powers
of the President as Commander in Chief of
the armed forces.”
PETER MONTGOMERY: Well, and that really takes
us to another core constitutional principle,
which is judicial independence and the rule
of law.
And Moore has no respect for judges who disagree
with him.
Obviously, the example you just cited is one.
He also spoke at a religious right political
conference earlier this year that I went to
to hear him speak.
And he said there that the Supreme Court justices
who supported and ruled in favor of marriage
equality should be impeached.
And he vowed specifically that when he gets
to the Senate, he will use his power as a
senator to stop what he called the submission
to the federal judiciary by the legislative
branch.
So, he clearly is no supporter of judicial
independence, which is something that Americans
have relied on to defend and uphold our rights.
AMY GOODMAN: In 2011, Roy Moore proposed eliminating
all amendments after the 10th Amendment, which
includes the amendments prohibiting slavery,
the amendments giving women and African Americans
the right to vote.
He was speaking on a radio show.
AROOSTOOK WATCHMEN HOST: Actually, I would
like to see an amendment that says all amendments
after 10, all of—
ROY MOORE: Yes, that would eliminate many
problems.
You know, people don’t understand how some
of these amendments have completely tried
to wreck the form of government that our forefathers
intended.
AMY GOODMAN: Peter Montgomery, can you talk
about this, eliminating everything after the
10th Amendment?
And then, when asked by the only black member
of an audience recently about when was America
great—you know, referring to “make America
great again”—he refers to slavery time.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Yeah, this really gets to
a big-picture worldview on the fringes of
the conservative movement that Roy Moore is
deeply intertwined with, you know, this nostalgia
for a constitutional order that is utterly
grounded in states’ rights, where the federal
government has radically limited powers to
interfere with what the states do and to protect
individual civil rights.
And Roy Moore is very tied up in that.
It’s connected to a radical Christian Reconstructionist
theology that says the federal government
has no role in education or care for the poor
or feeding the hungry, that those are all
jobs that God has reserved for the family
and the church.
So, it’s really disturbing to hear Moore
talk like that.
But when you realize the worldview that he’s
coming from and that he has made his—has
been made very clear during his career that
he embraces, it’s not that surprising.
AMY GOODMAN: Roy Moore said, “I’m going
to tell you about the only thing I know that
the Islamic faith has done in this country
is 9/11.”
He also said that the Qur’an—Keith Ellison,
the first Muslim member of Congress, should
not be able to be sworn in on his holy book,
on the Qur’an, comparing it to Mein Kampf.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Yeah, I think the whole
episode with Keith Ellison should, in itself—even
if you ignore all the other things we’ve
just talked about, all the other radicalism
and extremism, the Keith Ellison episode itself
should make him unfit and should, you know,
shame every Republican who is now endorsing
him.
Here we had Keith Ellison, who was elected
to serve in the Congress, and as a Muslim,
he chose for his ceremonial swearing-in to
use the Qur’an, the way most members of
Congress, when they come in, they do a ceremonial
swearing-in using the Bible.
And, you know, Roy Moore just used that as
an opportunity to display his raw religious
bigotry and his belief that Christians in
America are the real Americans.
And he said that Congress should refuse to
seat Moore—I mean, should refuse to seat
Keith Ellison, because he said that it’s
impossible for a Muslim to honestly swear
an oath to uphold the Constitution.
And that’s—it’s so offensive, that I
think, really, that, in itself, should be
disqualifying.
AMY GOODMAN: Peter Montgomery, right now the
race is too close to call.
At Democracy Now!, we don’t really rely
on polls very much before, you know, the day
of the election.
Can you talk about the strategy of Doug Jones
this weekend bringing in top African-American
leaders to push hard to get the African-American
vote out?
It might simply be vote count being up, the
issue in Alabama of voting polls being cut
down under voter laws that have been increasingly
restrictive.
PETER MONTGOMERY: Well, we certainly see that
that’s been one of the big-picture strategies
from the Republican Party in recent years,
particularly once the conservatives on the
U.S. Supreme Court gutted key provisions of
the Voting Rights Act.
So, voter suppression and laws that make it
harder to vote are a huge concern.
So I think that kind of concerted get out
the vote and mobilizing is really important.
And it’s great that the party and the Doug
Jones campaign was doing that.
I know Doug Jones has also been trying to
build on the sentiments that were expressed
by Richard Shelby in your introduction, among
the Republicans who do not feel comfortable
being represented by Roy Moore.
And Doug Jones has run some ads featuring
those Republicans to try to, I think, encourage
Republicans who might cross over.
So I think it’s important that he’s doing
both those things, that he’s appealing to
Republicans who just can’t go there with
Roy Moore, but he’s also really working
hard to get out the Democratic vote, because
that’s really the only way Doug Jones has
a chance to win.
AMY GOODMAN: Finally, there was a Vice focus
group.
Frank Luntz interviewed some of Moore’s
supporters.
One said, “Forty years ago in Alabama, there
was a lot of mamas and daddies that would
be thrilled that their 14-year-old was getting
hit on by a district attorney.”
Another voter said the women’s reputations
were questionable at the time.
Peter Montgomery, the allegations of sexual
abuse and that Roy Moore is an accused pedophile?
PETER MONTGOMERY: Yeah, the focus group was
really disturbing, for a number of reasons.
And, you know, the one you mentioned, about
someone saying, “Well, back then, it would
have been OK,” it’s really stunning.
You know, there’s some really good work
that’s been done by religion scholars, including
Julie Ingersoll, who’s reported on the fact
that within certain parts of the conservative
Christian movement that focus on biblical
patriarchy and female submission to men, this
idea of older men marrying teenage girls is
part of that subculture.
You know, Phil Robertson from Duck Dynasty,
who’s really become this big religious right
and Republican Party activist, you know, he’s
basically said that girls should get married
at 15 or 16, and that, you know, if they’re
young enough, then guys can be sure that they’re
pure for them and ready for them to sort of
be handed over from their father to their
new husband.
So, that is a disturbing strain of conservative
Christian subculture that Roy Moore is connected
to.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you, Peter
Montgomery, for joining us, senior fellow
at People for the American Way.
We will link to your pieces, the one, “There’s
More Than One Roy Moore Scandal,” and your
report on “Roy Moore: A History of Bigotry,
Extremism and Contempt for the Rule of Law.”
The accused pedophile will run in a special
election on Tuesday against Doug Jones for
the U.S. Senate seat that was vacated by Jeff
Sessions, who became President Trump’s attorney
general.
Of course, we’ll be reporting on that tomorrow.
And Richard Shelby—the latest news—the
Alabama Republican senator, coming out against
Roy Moore, saying he could not support him.
President Trump, on the other hand, has made
a robocall supporting Roy Moore, held a rally
supporting Roy Moore in the Mobile, Alabama,
media market this weekend, in Pensacola, Florida,
supporting the accused pedophile.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back in a minute in Jackson, Mississippi,
where President Trump went to dedicate the
opening of two new civil rights museums.
Our guests didn’t go to all the ceremonies,
protesting President Trump’s presence.
But the museums themselves are quite remarkable,
and we’ll talk about civil rights history.
Stay with us.
