AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, the American Civil Liberties
Union is demanding the immediate release of
a 10-year-old girl who was removed from the
children’s hospital in Corpus Christi, Texas,
and taken into custody by Border Patrol agents
as she recovered from emergency surgery.
The girl, Rosa Maria Hernandez, is undocumented
and has cerebral palsy.
She has been living in the United States since
she was three months old, when her parents
moved to the country in order to access better
medical care for her.
She was first detained last Tuesday, after
an ambulance carrying her to the hospital
was stopped at a checkpoint.
Agents then waited outside of her hospital
room until she was discharged, and detained
her.
Video shows the agents escorting Rosa Maria
Hernandez into custody as she’s wheeled
out of the hospital on a gurney.
AMY GOODMAN: This is Rosa Maria’s mother,
Felipa de la Cruz, speaking to her daughter,
who was on the phone from detention.
We can barely hear Rosa Maria, as her mother
cries.
FELIPA DE LA CRUZ: [translated] Yes, my darling,
I want to come and see you, but I can’t
come.
No, I don’t know if your father can come
and take you out.
Oh, no, they don’t allow other children
inside, because they don’t want you to get
sick.
If that happened, you may not recover quickly
enough to come see me.
AMY GOODMAN: This comes as the former Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agency deputy director—that’s
the ICE deputy director—under George W.
Bush called the girl’s treatment “appalling.”
This is Alonzo Peña, speaking to KSAT TV
in San Antonio.
ALONZO PEÑA: Just not necessary to do that.
I mean, this—she could have been given a
notice to appear.
You know, here she’s just getting out of
the hospital, having surgery, and they’re
going to put her in a detention facility.
It’s just not right.
… Those agents should be out on the line,
stopping drugs, stopping gang members, protecting
our national security, not doing this to a
10-year-old girl who’s just come out of
surgery and has other medical issues.
AMY GOODMAN: Rosa’s doctors are recommending
she be released into the care of her family.
But instead she was released into the detention
facility.
For more, we go to Austin, Texas, where we’re
joined by Priscila Martinez, who’s the Texas
Immigration Coalition coordinator, among those
calling for immigration authorities to allow
Rosa to go back to her family.
Welcome to Democracy Now!, Priscila.
Why don’t you lay out how could this possibly
have happened?
Before you give your reaction, give us the
tick-tock of what happened to this 10-year-old
girl, who had surgery in a hospital, taken
out by customs, Border Patrol.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Well, thank you for having
me.
Yes, so, she was actually going, at 2 a.m.
on Tuesday morning, with her cousin, Aurora
Cantu, through checkpoint in the—the freeway
checkpoint in Laredo, Texas.
And she went to the Corpus Christi hospital
for this emergency surgery that she needed.
The emergency surgery happened at 9 a.m.
And the whole time, from the checkpoint forward,
the Border Patrol were at their bedpost.
They had to keep her in sight.
They kept saying, “We have to keep her in
sight.”
If she was going to get an X-ray, she needed
to be in their sight.
If she was going to the surgery, she needed
to be in sight.
They weren’t—they didn’t allow the family
to have a closed room.
They didn’t allow the family to have a private
conversation.
It wasn’t until the next day, when the lawyer
arrived, that they were able to have a private
conversation.
And then they were able to talk to the hospital
lawyers and figure out a solution.
At first, they wanted—Border Patrol wanted
to just straight take her without an ambulance,
wanted to put [her] in [their] car.
And even the lawyer told us that one of the
Border Patrol wanted to be in the back of
the ambulance with the girl, with his gun.
And she had to beg the Border Patrol to go
to the front, so that the girl wouldn’t
have to see a man, a stranger, with this gun,
in the—sit next to her in this way.
So then she was taken, after many negotiations
with the hospital, with Border Patrol and
with the lawyer.
She was actually—she was taken to the detention
facility in San Antonio.
And that’s where she is currently right
now.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Priscila, during this
time, were her parents at all notified by
Border Patrol of the situation, and her given
the chance to be able to, in one way or other,
defend herself, have a lawyer, somehow go
to court to stop this?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
So, that’s the part that gets tricky, because
we were—so, Aurora was really the one telling
us everything, and she was telling us what
was happening, and she was talking to Felipa.
Felipa was the one talking to press and trying
to get—trying to figure out what was going
on.
And we, in the meantime, were trying to figure
out—through working with elected officials,
trying to figure out really who—who was
in custody, who was in charge, who was the
person that made this decision to follow this
girl.
We called—you know, we had Congressman Castro
call Border Patrol directly.
They said they weren’t in charge of the
situation.
They called ICE, and they said they also weren’t
in charge.
So we really couldn’t figure out who was
in—who was the one, the decision maker.
And we know that the decision came from the
top.
We just—we still, to this day, don’t know
who decided to follow this girl and continue
to be there for the several days that she
was in the hospital.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, let’s be very clear.
When you talk about her being stopped at a
checkpoint, this wasn’t coming over the
border, although even if it was—
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: No.
AMY GOODMAN: —this is inexcusable.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: No.
AMY GOODMAN: In Texas, there are many checkpoints
when you drive around.
Rosa, who is a 10-year-old girl with cerebral
palsy, with a mind of a 5-year-old, has been
in this country since she was three months
old.
She was just driving—her family was just
driving her in Texas to get to the hospital
for her surgery.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
And we’ve these cases many times.
We’ve seen more and more that Border Patrol
is following people through the checkpoint,
and they’re following them all the way to
the hospital.
This isn’t an isolated case.
There have been many cases before.
And now we’re finding out more.
The hospital staff, even in their orders of
being able to take someone in emergency surgery,
they push to the last minute, because they
know that they’re risking someone’s status,
someone’s immigration status.
And so, they also, in their—in the way that
they’re recommending people to get their
healthcare services, they are basing that
decision on whether—how emergency—how
much they need it versus, you know, them risking
going to a detention center afterwards, too.
So it’s been a really difficult decision
and a really difficult situation for a lot
of families all across the border.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And what are the legal remedies
that hospital personnel have in this situation?
Does a doctor have a right to tell—to tell
Border Patrol agents, “No, you can’t be—you
can’t be coming into this hospital room
or seizing one of my patients”?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right, yeah.
So, if it’s a private hospital, they absolutely
have the right to not let Border Patrol in.
Border Patrol uses intimidation to get in,
to do what they want, to continue to follow
their procedures and their orders.
But Border Patrol or any type of enforcement
does not have to be in the hospital, if it’s
a private hospital.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to play an outgoing voice
message from ICE’s community relations officer,
Norma Lacy, who says the agency is not involved
in Rosa Maria’s detention.
NORMA LACY: If you are calling regarding Rosa
Maria’s case, please be advised that ICE
is not a part of this case.
We have not been involved, and have been trying
to set the record straight.
If you would like to look up an article in
Newsweek, we have published a correction.
You need to call Border Patrol.
They were the ones, the agency in Laredo,
that was involved.
AMY GOODMAN: So, the question is: Who has
responsibility here?
We also heard the former deputy director of
ICE, not in charge anymore, but he was under
George W. Bush.
He actually broke down, and he said, “This
is unacceptable.”
I believe his own son died in the hospital
that Rosa had her operation in.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right, yeah.
So we continue to see this, that Border Patrol
is taking no actual responsibility for this.
They filed, supposedly, an NTA, notice to
appear, but—they gave it to the hospital,
but they did not give it to the lawyer.
And even to this day, we still have not seen
this notice to appear.
So we’re a little bit confused as to who—again,
who has responsibility for this.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And what steps, what legal
steps, are you taking now in terms of—I
mean, is it possible to file a habeas corpus
or have a judge rule on this matter?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Yeah, so I think that’s
what we’re trying to figure out, because
it is a little bit tricky.
We don’t know who is actually responsible.
And so I think that the—her lawyers, her
immigration lawyers, because they have not
gotten the notice to appear, they can’t
move forward with the legal process.
I know ACLU is kind of working on really saying
that “Today is the day.
If you do not release her, we will sue you
for this.”
And I think that that’s something that they—you
know, that they were working on all yesterday.
And so, you know, I don’t know what’s
to come.
I hope the best, and I really hope that, you
know, we’ll get some really good news soon,
and she’ll be released back to her family.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, these stories are unbelievable.
We recently reported on a nurse in Utah who
was stopping the police from coming in to
pull blood from an unconscious patient.
She was dragged out and arrested for stopping
the police officer.
Ultimately, though, interestingly, the police
officer was fired for his actions.
And then, in March, we looked at the shocking
case of an asylum seeker from El Salvador
who was detained as she battled a brain tumor.
Sara Beltran Hernandez was shackled at her
hands and wrists, removed from the hospital,
taken back to the Prairieland Detention Center
near Dallas.
This is her lawyer, Fatma Marouf.
FATMA MAROUF: After I went to the hospital
to try to understand what was happening, and
subsequently talked to people within the Department
of Homeland Security, as well as within the
hospital, we were told that she would be moved
to a hospital in Dallas.
And then, suddenly, the next day, she was
taken back.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Fatma Marouf, the lawyer
for the woman taken out of the hospital with
a brain tumor.
How common, Priscila Martinez, is this?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: So, I think we’ve seen
a lot more reports of Border Patrol following
people all the way to a hospital.
I had a case of an older woman.
She was 65 years old.
And she had a brain tumor, and she needed
an operation in San Antonio.
And her U.S. citizen children were not allowed
to go into the room and see her, their own
mother, after she had the surgery, and they—because
Border Patrol was staying outside.
Now, I just learned about this case now, and
there’s been more cases that are coming
forward, because we see more and more of the
situation where Border Patrol follows people
who are sick, and they treat them like criminals,
and they have no accountability whatsoever.
So, this is our first step into creating that
accountability and to showing—and to showing
the community that this is unacceptable and
we’re not—we’re not going to accept
this.
And, you know, we’re really empowering the
community to speak out and to say something,
so that we can hold them accountable for their
actions.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Priscila Martinez, you’re
speaking to us from Texas, the state that
is now infamous for SB 4, the legislation
that would empower the state officials to
arrest public municipal leaders or even police
chiefs who refuse to cooperate with ICE and
with Border Patrol.
I’m wondering your sense of how—where
Texas is headed, because I know this right
now is being challenged still in court appeals—where
you think Texas is headed on this issue of
the treating of the undocumented.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
And I think it’s really—it’s been hard
for Texas communities, immigrant communities,
because they’ve been hit sometimes at every
level, at the local, state and federal level,
you know, especially our folks out in Houston,
where they were hit not only by SB 4, but
also by Harvey and not even being able to
qualify for FEMA assistance.
And so, it’s been really challenging for
families here.
However, we’ve seen that there’s more
and more communities that are empowered, that
are coming out.
We’re training our communities to know their
rights.
We’re training them to feel empowered, that
just because a police officer asks you for
your immigration status, you do not have to
answer.
And we’re empowering them to organize and
to fight back.
And this is, you know, [inaudible] that we’re
looking to—forward to seeing that expand
in Texas to kind of really build the story
of how communities are standing up and fighting
back.
AMY GOODMAN: Finally, Priscila, can you talk
about where Rosa Maria is right now and the
fact that her surgeon says she still needs
follow-up medical care, saying she should
be with her family?
Talk about this situation, before we go.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right, yeah.
So, Rosa Maria has a very—she’s right
now at the detention center.
She is being told by her mom that she needs
to be there to recover from the surgery, and
as soon as she’s recovered, you know, she
can come home.
And I think that that—that’s the way that
they’re kind of framing it.
But she’s already getting a little bit—we
could hear it in her voice, according to her
mother, that she’s already starting to feel
a little, you know, less happier than usual.
She doesn’t have her usual tone that she
usually has.
And her mom is able to tell that.
Even when I was with her and she made the
phone call to her mom, you know, Rosa Maria
has a—she’s been in hospitals, in and
out, so many times because of different other
medical difficulties, that she kind of hides,
you know, feeling like—when she doesn’t
feel well.
And her is able to tell that right away, and
the detention center won’t.
And so, it’s been really challenging having
her there, because her mom knows her so well,
that it’s hard to know really how she’s
doing.
And she’s due for a doctor’s appointment
on November 2nd.
We’re hoping—we’re building actions
on November 1st to ask ICE, and we’re asking,
you know, to have her released immediately,
so that she can go to her doctor’s appointment
on November 2nd.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, why can’t her
mother visit?
I mean, they came to this country—what?—10
years ago?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right, right.
AMY GOODMAN: Rosa Maria came here when she
was three months old—she’s now 10—with
cerebral palsy?
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
Her mom can’t visit her, because she’s
undocumented.
And her—she would have to cross the checkpoint
again to see her daughter in San Antonio,
where she’s being held.
And so she cannot see her, because that would
put her immediately into deportation proceedings.
AMY GOODMAN: And again, crossing the checkpoint,
that’s within the United States.
The family lives—
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —in the United States.
There are just a number of checkpoints, for
people to understand outside of Texas, in
Texas when you drive around.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Priscila Martinez, I want to
thank you so much for being with us.
PRISCILA MARTINEZ: Thank you.
AMY GOODMAN: A Texas Immigration Coalition
coordinator, among those calling for immigration
authorities to release 10-year-old Rosa Maria
Hernandez back to her family.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
Thanks so much for joining us.
