AMY GOODMAN: As outrage is mounting over the
Trump administration’s practice of separating
immigrant children from their parents at the
U.S.-Mexico border as part of the crackdown
against immigrants and asylum seekers, the
Associate Press reporting nearly 2,000 children
have been separated from their parents since
April 19th, The New York Times reporting some
parents have been deported without their children
and with no information about how the family
will be reunited, we’re going to look now
at Southwest Key, the nonprofit that operates
27 facilities in California, Arizona and Texas,
including the Brownsville facility that holds
1,500 children, that Senator Merkley was previously
denied entry to.
We’re going to Tucson, Arizona, to speak
with a whistleblower, a youth care worker
who quit the Tucson detention center for unaccompanied
minors, run by the nonprofit Southwest Key
Programs, which also runs the Brownsville
facility and the proposed “baby jail”
in Houston, 27 facilities in all.
Antar Davidson quit after, he says, Southwest
Key forced him to tell children who were separated
from their mother and from their siblings
not to hug.
Antar Davidson, welcome to Democracy Now!
Can you talk about why you quit your job last
week?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Sure, definitely.
Thank you, first and foremost, Amy, for having
me on the show.
I just want to clarify a little bit the timeline
of events.
That first night, when they told me not to
hug, that prompted me to seek change internally.
I reached out to a regional director, who
assured me that she—the next morning, she
assured me that things would change, things
would be different.
Four more Brazilians came.
I found it extremely difficult.
I tried to help, through the organization.
I tried to talk to people.
And despite being a Brazilian citizen and
having had professional translation work,
they did not allow me to help.
They really were blocking me at every turn.
I then—I then requested a leave, a time
off, a week off, to process what I had gone
through.
And prior to that, the CEO, Dr. Juan Sánchez,
made his rounds and began asking for money.
And after they denied my leave request, it
was then that I made the—I put in my resignation
as a conscientious objector.
So, just to add—
AMY GOODMAN: I don’t understand what you
said, Antar.
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Just adding—yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: You said he was asking for money?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Yes.
So, he—basically, they called mandatory
meetings at our facility, three different
mandatory meetings.
And he initially said that they’re going—they
need 500 more people.
They’re going to drop the ratio from one-to-five
to one-to-three for the “tender age” kids,
so that refers to the direct care ratios,
so that they would have more staff to take
care of those younger kids.
Five hundred kids—500 new employees, he
said we needed.
He told then a sob story about a minor who
had come into a facility with very thick acne
and how he felt so bad.
Despite making a million dollars-plus, between
him and his wife, in federal tax dollars,
he said that he felt so bad that he couldn’t
do anything for this child with acne, and
then he proceeded to basically present this
employee giving program, where employees and
staff were urged to give $10 of every paycheck
or a one-time contribution of $240.
He then had a second speaker kind of reinforce
the policy, while passing around papers for
people to sign away their checks.
And so, yeah, I just definitely want to clarify
that despite, of course, the acute problems
of the “zero tolerance” policy, but also
we shouldn’t let this CEO off the hook,
who’s been making a million dollars-plus
for the past five years, off the detention
of children, of vulnerable immigrant children.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Antar, can you talk about
this moment—you talked about speaking Portuguese.
You’re Brazilian.
Talk about the moment where you were with
these children, that so disturbed you.
Describe the scene.
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Well, it was pretty much a
day of being shown a very uncompassionate
organization claiming to be a humanitarian
nonprofit.
The children were separated from their mother.
And the next day, at 2:00 in the morning,
they left—I believe it was a facility in
Texas.
They arrived at the Tucson facility at 9:30
in the morning, having not had slept the entire
night.
They were showered, fed.
They went through the intake process.
My shift started at 1:30.
So, I eventually was able to start talking
to them.
Initially, he understood, because no one spoke
Portuguese, and there’s a phone translation
service, but it does not work very well—the
oldest brother, as soon as I started speaking
Portuguese, burst out crying.
And he explained to me that he thought that
his mom had disappeared.
In Brazil, when the government tells you that
someone has disappeared, it has a very different
connotation than it does here, that essentially
means that they are dead.
So I had to affirm to him first that his mom
was not in fact dead, and then basically proceed
to try to explain to him, with no clear answers,
kind of where his mom was, what kind of facility.
We add no idea.
The case managers had no idea.
So, then, after that, I was told to supervise
them in a classroom.
It was a brother, who was 16, his sister,
who was 10, and their younger brother, who
was 8, along with a 5-year-old Guatemalan
girl who came with them from Texas and had
made friends with the sister.
They had begun asking me—this was about
4:00 in the afternoon.
They had begun asking me to sleep in a bed.
They were very tired.
They hadn’t slept the whole night.
They had just been separated from their mom.
And I requested—I requested from the management
if I could get beds for them so that they
could sleep.
They told me, “Negative,” didn’t even
really give me a reason.
And essentially, I was forced to offer to
sweep the floor to make a space for them to
sleep on the floor, to which I felt extremely
disgusted.
And that was only the beginning.
So, after having asked them to sleep on the
floor and sweeping the floor, I went on to
teach my capoeira class, which I have been—I
had been doing at Southwest Key.
And then, later on, in the evening, it was
not until 8:00 that the kids were assigned
rooms.
In Spanish and English, they were trying to
explain to the kids that they would all then
be separated, the brother, both—all three
of the siblings in different rooms.
So, they responded to this by basically clinging
to each other and crying.
So then I was called on the radio, and I was
told over the radio, “Antar, come over here.
You need to tell them that they cannot hug.
They can’t hug.”
So, I said, “I don’t know that I’m going
to do that, but I’m on my way.”
So I arrived to the scene, and the three siblings
were clutching each other for dear life, tears
streaming down their face.
I approached the oldest brother, and I say
to him in Portuguese, “Bro, you’ve got
to be strong.”
And he turns to me with tears streaming down
his face, and he says, “How?
How can I be strong?
Look at my brother.
Look at my sister.
They’re trying to separate us again.”
And I didn’t know—I just put my head down.
I did not know what to respond to him.
AMY GOODMAN: Antar, how old are these children?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: And at that moment, a shift
leader—yes?
AMY GOODMAN: How old are these children?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: These kids, the oldest brother
was—the oldest brother was 16.
The sister was 10.
And the younger brother was 8.
So, at that moment, the shift leader ran up
to me and very aggressively told me, ”¡Diles
que no pueden abrazar!”
“Tell them that they can’t hug!”
Now, this is also in front of other children,
other employees, who are watching this.
And so she screams at me to tell them not
to hug, that they’re not allowed to hug.
That’s the rule at Southwest Key.
And meanwhile, I’m looking at these kids.
It’s the two little—the two little siblings
just, you know, thinking they’re going to
be ripped now from their brother’s arms,
and the brother crying because he can’t
do anything, necessarily.
And I told her, at that point, when she told
me to do that—I told her, “I’m sorry,
but as a human being, that’s not something
that I can do.
You’re welcome to do it yourself,” to
which she replied, first, that she would report
me to the supervisor, and then she went directly
to them and said, ”no puedes abrazar,”
“You’re not allowed to hug.”
And he looks at me, with tears streaming down
his face, in utter disbelief that that would
happen.
It was at that moment that I realized that
if I were to continue with Southwest Key,
at least here in this facility, that I’d
be told to do things that were against what
I’m now seeing from the response of the
world is against the code of all humans’
morality.
I tried to make internal change.
I contacted a regional director.
I noticed that it wasn’t going anywhere,
after three or four days.
I requested my time off, stating that I needed
to processes these very impactful and traumatizing
events.
I was denied, after two days.
And at that point was when I handed in my
resignation as a conscientious objector to
the route and the direction the organization
was taking.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to a statement,
posted on YouTube, by the state senator you
work for, Antar, Arizona state Representative
Pamela Powers Hannley.
REP.
PAMELA POWERS HANNLEY: I am the ranking member
on the Health Committee.
On this committee, we hear child safety bills
all the time.
I believe that legislators should be allowed
into the facility in Tucson to see the children.
At least 300 are being detained in Tucson.
AMY GOODMAN: Antar Davidson, you’re field
director for Arizona state Representative
Pamela Powers Hannley.
She has not been allowed to tour the facility
where you worked, even though she’s the
ranking Democrat on the Arizona state Health
Committee?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Yep.
And that precisely illustrates the main problem
with these facilities.
Despite being paid, very highly paid, by American
tax dollars, they remain entirely clandestine.
I also want to just take this opportunity
to really give a very strong thank you to
Senator Merkley.
When I heard what happened to him, I felt
extremely empowered, and that really led to
me deciding to stand up.
The main problem—again, the main problem
with these detention centers is their lack
of transparency, which allows them to basically
turn it into a prison.
AMY GOODMAN: Antar Davidson, I want to get
your reaction to Southwest Key spokesperson
Cindy Casares, who responded to concerns about
whether the nonprofit is prepared to house
children who have been separated from their
parents at the border and are coping with
trauma.
Quote, she said, “Our staff have great expertise
in dealing with this population.
We have very high professional development
standards.
We cannot operate if we do not have the legally
mandated number of staff required.
… For the last 20 years we hire[d] staff
that have a child care or social work background
to be prepared to support the developmental
and emotional needs of all children who arrive
to our facility,” she said.
Antar Davidson, you worked at the facility.
Is that your assessment?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: At my—at our facility, not
the case.
I can personally—I was personally asked
by a shift supervisor if I could work six
days a week for the next foreseeable future.
We were asked, every single day, “Can 10
people stay overtime?
Can five people stay?”
Most of the people at that—we had one week
of training.
Most of the employees there were formerly
working in restaurants, formerly working in—you
know, construction workers.
And I think one of the main things, as much
as this is about the children, this is a labor
issue.
Southwest Key, to great profit for their board
and the CEO, has mostly opened their shelters
in low-income Latino communities, where workers
are basically more willing to take, you know,
basically, $15 an hour, which is what we take,
and no benefits, and just basically not speak
out, not unionize.
The main point is, this is a federal responsibility,
and people who undertake federal responsibilities
should receive federal-level support.
So, I’m sure that perhaps in other facilities
it’s different, but, unfortunately, in Tucson,
that was not the case.
And I believe, according to other articles
and things that are coming out, that is not
the case, what they’re saying.
AMY GOODMAN: Antar Davidson, since Attorney
General Jeff Sessions made his announcement,
it’s quite stunning what has taken place.
President Trump says this isn’t his fault,
it’s the Democrats’ fault.
But the attorney general explicitly made this
announcement of zero tolerance.
I mean, the chief of staff, Kelly, who used
to be head of Department of Homeland Security,
he said this, as well as other top aides of
Trump.
But Trump is saying it is not his responsibility.
There has been an increased flow of people,
children, into these facilities.
Was Southwest Key alerted to this, that this
was going to happen?
ANTAR DAVIDSON: I can’t speak to that.
I wasn’t necessarily in the upper management.
What I can say is, I would be more than—I,
personally, having had my experience, would
be more than happy to speak to President Trump
or Attorney General Jeff Sessions in regards
to how these policies have had effect on the
ground level.
Again, I would like to point out that this
is a—this is, basically, a bad program that
was broken by a horrible idea, a horrible
new plan.
So there has been a very great effect by the
“zero tolerance” policy; however, prior
to this, we’re not talking about an organization
that was good.
We’re talking about an organization that,
for the past five years, has made millions
of dollars in basically the detention of youth.
AMY GOODMAN: And your response to the same—the
nonprofit you work for, Southwest Key, opening
what they’re calling a “baby jail” in
Houston?
The mayor was protesting.
The former police chief was protesting yesterday
in the pouring rain.
The lease of a former homeless shelter in
Houston by the nonprofit you work for, Southwest
Key, to use this jail—
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Worked.
AMY GOODMAN: —separating children at a tender
age of 10 or below, 10 or younger.
ANTAR DAVIDSON: Follow the money.
Yeah, follow the money.
There’s going to be—I promise you, there
will be millions made, in various people’s
hands.
And I think that’s what’s perhaps most
insidious about this.
This is an organization that presents itself
as doing a humanitarian deed and this and
that.
This is a federal-level responsibility that
they’re taking on, at great cost.
And you need to do it right.
It’s not something that you should laud
yourself, especially if you’re making a
lot of money.
Again, follow the money.
There’s a lot of money being made off of
this situation.
And it’s important that we hold all those
people accountable and, basically, as a nation,
show we’re—we need to integrate people.
We need to provide quality mental health services,
particularly because these children—these
children are being reunified and placed into
public schools.
If we turn these facilities into prisons,
if we don’t provide the proper education
and preparation for them, upon reunification,
we’re basically creating a prison-to-public-school
pipeline.
And that will be detrimental to everyone.
AMY GOODMAN: Antar Davidson, I thank you for
being with us.
Antar Davidson is a whistleblower who quit
his job last week as a youth care worker at
the Estrella del Norte—that’s North Star—facility
for unaccompanied minors and separated children,
this one in Tucson, Arizona, the facility
run by the nonprofit Southwest Key Programs.
That’s the company that also runs the 1,500-child
facility in Texas.
Davidson is also field director for Arizona
state Representative Pamela Powers Hannley.
