AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We’re broadcasting from the Community Media
Center of Marin in San Rafael, California.
Today is Community Media Day, which celebrates
community media centers like this one around
the country.
Here in California, catastrophic wildfires
have killed at least 42 people and left thousands
of homes and businesses in ruins.
The fires are still burning across multiple
counties near where we are broadcasting from.
We’re in Marin, close to Sonoma County,
which some say has taken the brunt of the
destruction, and is home to about 20,000 undocumented
immigrants, who have had little sanctuary
from the fires.
Last week, Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
known as ICE, announced it would suspend non-criminal
enforcement at shelters and evacuation centers
here.
But fear of deportation led some undocumented
residents to set up camps on the beach or
sleep in their cars, churches or other pop-up
shelters in order to avoid federal agents.
Some evacuees also face challenges returning
to their homes because of police checkpoints.
Cal Fire is investigating the cause of the
fires.
Residents in Santa Rosa have sued the Pacific
Gas and Electric Company, claiming the company’s
failure to maintain its power lines sparked
the blazes.
The night the fires began, there were multiple
reports of downed power lines and exploding
electrical transformers.
This comes as far-right media outlets like
Breitbart falsely reported an undocumented
immigrant was arrested in connection with
starting the fire.
Police say they did arrest 29-year-old Jesus
Fabian Gonzalez, a homeless man who had started
a fire to keep warm.
Deputies extinguished the small fire before
any firefighters arrived.
This was after the fires had begun.
But on Tuesday, Sonoma County Sheriff Rob
Giordano said there is, quote, “no indication
that Gonzalez had anything to do with these
fires and it appears highly unlikely.”
On Wednesday, ICE’s acting director, Thomas
Homan, accused Sonoma County of being a, quote,
“non-cooperative jurisdiction” that “has
left their community vulnerable to dangerous
individuals and preventable crimes,” unquote.
The Sonoma County sheriff issued a scathing
response, calling ICE’s statements inaccurate,
inflammatory and damaging, and said, quote,
”ICE attacked the Sheriff’s Office in
the midst of the largest natural disaster
this county has ever experienced.
… I hope to end this senseless public confrontation
with these facts so that I may focus on the
fire recovery,” he said.
Meanwhile, the fires have also contributed
to an affordable housing crisis, leaving thousands
homeless in neighborhoods of California where
rental prices were already sky high before
the blazes.
For more, we’re joined by two guests who
work closely with the immigrant community
here.
Juan Hernandez III is executive director of
the La Luz Center in Sonoma.
And Alegría De La Cruz is chief deputy county
counselor of Sonoma County, which is one of
the main service providers for the large undocumented
population.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Alegría De La Cruz, let’s begin with you.
You are the chief deputy county counselor
of Sonoma County.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: That’s correct.
AMY GOODMAN: But also you have been appointed
to communicate with the Spanish-speaking population
here.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: So, as chief deputy,
I actually run an infrastructure group of
about 11 lawyers who serve the county’s
departments that do important things like
parks, water, roads, etc.
And I’ve also been responsible for leading
the county’s efforts—coordinating the
county’s efforts with regard to immigration
service provision, as well as fundraising
for legal service increase in capacity throughout
the county.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about what has just taken
place, this attack by—it is reminiscent
of Puerto Rico in the midst of their catastrophe,
President Trump attacking the San Juan mayor,
who you usually saw on television with water
up to her chest, holding a bullhorn, trying
to evacuate people safely.
And he attacked her.
Now you have the head of ICE attacking Sonoma
County and the sheriff, who is trying to deal
with the fires.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: It really calls into
question the public safety issues that are
raised by local governments in the face of
such increased efforts in terms of immigration
enforcement.
Two weeks ago, we, like others throughout
the county, were training immigrant communities
on how to protect themselves from immigration
enforcement, and warning people to make sure
that before they open the door to somebody
in uniform, that they saw a signed judicial
warrant.
And only 10, 11 days later, we’re telling
people, “Come on in for services, please.
You’re safe here.”
So the confusion and the conflict in people,
and then their emotional state, especially
in light of this extreme natural disaster
and the hundreds and thousands of people that
have been impacted by this, is very difficult
for the community to kind of switch so quickly.
And so, what we’re seeing is tens of thousands
of people not coming in to receive services,
to which they are entitled to, and continuing
to seek service outside of the institutions
that are designed to serve them.
AMY GOODMAN: Where did immigrants go, Juan
Hernandez?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: So, we had—
AMY GOODMAN: Undocumented.
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: Yes.
We had a large report that a lot of them have
gone—went to the coast.
Doran Beach was one location that—
AMY GOODMAN: So they go to the ocean?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: Yes.
And a lot of it has to do with just—just
functional, right?
It was cleaner air.
They wanted to get out to cleaner air.
But I think that one of the key things that
people need to understand is that communication
was down completely.
You could not use your cellphone.
Internet was down.
So communication, in general, was very hard
to connect with people—English-speaking
people, but, even worse, the Spanish-speaking
people.
So they had no way of communicating with anybody.
All they saw was the fires coming down the
hill.
AMY GOODMAN: And people run to the beach because
they’re afraid to go to the evacuation centers?
They’re heading to water?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: Yes.
So, what we saw was, again, the uncertainty
of where to go.
A lot of our families are disconnected from
services.
They’re disconnected from media.
They’re disconnected.
So the point was, is that they did the best
they could to support their families.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Alegría De La Cruz, when
people would knock on the door, they’re
afraid to open it.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: And this is in the face
of a disaster, where people are required and
needing to evacuate in order to save their
lives.
So, the county made a huge effort to ensure
that information was provided in Spanish language,
both written and as well as throughout the
Spanish-language media, really trying to send
the message to folks that, “OK, we’ve
now shifted, and now ICE has promised not
to enforce immigration laws at these places
of service provision.
Please come.
Please come and receive benefits for you and
your family that you are legally entitled
to.”
This is something that Sonoma County does
on a regular basis as the largest service
provider to the community.
And so, being able to kind of shift and make
sure that we’re continuing to do that, in
our capacity as the county service providers,
wasn’t necessarily far-fetched from what
it is that we do every day for people.
AMY GOODMAN: So, respond to the head of ICE
attacking your county, Sonoma County, where
you are the chief deputy county counselor.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: So, my office does represent
the Sheriff’s Office.
And I just want to kind of elevate his comments
and to really highlight the fact that, in
the face of such disaster and such emergency,
to then be responding to these kinds of attacks,
I believe Sheriff Giordano said it beautifully,
that these statements are inflammatory and
incorrect, and making these kinds of statements
at this time takes away all of the energy
that we have to be fighting fires—which
are still burning—making sure that people
have services and are continuing to be safe
in this time.
And it makes things very difficult to increase
service provision to communities that are
already vulnerable and in need of services,
to continue to make efforts to make sure that
people understand coming into shelters, coming
into the local assistance center, is safe,
that we are there to make sure that people
are receiving benefits that they need in order
to recover and that the recovery effort is
equitable.
These are not benefits that people are applying
for illegally in any way.
These are benefits to which families are legally
entitled.
And to be able to come into the center to
receive this assistance is something that
every Sonoma County resident who has been
impacted by the fires has the ability and
the right to do.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you comment on Breitbart
News and others—but most importantly, the
head of ICE, Homan—picking this up and accusing
an undocumented immigrant of starting the
fires?
What is your understanding of what happened
here?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: The fires are still under
investigation.
The cause of the fires are still under investigation.
It is premature at this stage.
And it’s very clear from the investigation
that was conducted with Mr. Gonzalez’s arrest
that the fires could not have been caused
by his small fire, which he was arrested for
in the valley of Sonoma just a few days ago,
many days after the fires had already started.
AMY GOODMAN: Juan Hernandez, talk about the
housing crisis and now people having jobs.
I mean, we’re here in San Rafael.
It’s, oh, 20, 40 miles from Santa Rosa,
where you are from, both of you.
You live about five blocks apart.
I mean, the images we have seen of parts of
Santa Rosa right now, it’s a moonscape,
this now-iconic picture of a mail carrier,
a truck, going through a completely burned-out
area.
How many people—what, about 100,000 people
have been evacuated?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: That’s correct, over
the—over the course—
AMY GOODMAN: Overall.
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: Over the course of the
fires.
We now understand that there are still 20,000
people who have been displaced, who continue
to be displaced.
At the height of the fires, there were 36
shelters operating throughout the county to
help folks who had needed to be evacuated,
either under advisory conditions or mandatorily
in order to protect public safety.
AMY GOODMAN: The issue of affordable housing,
Juan?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: Yes.
So, before the fire started, there was—the
biggest issue in our county was affordable
housing.
And I think, now, this has exacerbated the
issue, and it’s the number one issue in
our county, is the housing.
So now our people who have lost homes are
competing with people that were looking for
homes before.
And so that’s the number one issue that
we’re facing now.
AMY GOODMAN: So what do people do?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: At this point, they’re
looking.
They’re weighing their options.
We know that some of our families that have
been affected have been moving in with other
families.
The biggest issues that we’re seeing that
have affected our vineyard workers, our restaurant
workers, our landscapers and our hotels, the
number one is that loss of jobs.
A lot of our families that were working in
these ranches, in these vineyards, and some
of our families’ moms who were working in
these—cleaning houses, they have lost their
ability to earn a living.
The second thing is that because they haven’t
been working for at least a good amount of
two weeks, they have no money.
A lot of our families have been living paycheck
to paycheck.
And that has affected their ability to be
able to get food.
And so we’re seeing just the basic needs
of our families that are not being met.
Sonoma Valley was—the Springs area of Sonoma
was really cut off from the rest of Santa
Rosa.
Highway 12 was closed.
Glen Ellen, that area was closed.
So the Springs area was really cut off from
the rest of the county.
And so we had a lot of families that could
not leave.
And so, La Luz was there, open, ready to serve
these families who were not able to get out.
AMY GOODMAN: New York Times headline, “As
Fires Move On, Wine Country Wonders Whether
Immigrants Will, Too.”
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: That’s a big question.
And it has to do really more so with the housing,
the lack of housing, that will maybe force
our families to move out of the area.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask—oh, what were
you going to say, Alegría?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: I was going to say, the
county and the nine cities within our jurisdiction
have long been dedicated to finding creative
solutions to our affordable housing challenges.
And we continue to be dedicated to coordinating
a visioning process that ensures that whatever
rebuilding and reconstruction is done with
equity front and center and with affordability,
to really address the situation that we already
were suffering and now has just been exacerbated
by these fires.
AMY GOODMAN: Alegría, is Sonoma County a
sanctuary county?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: Sonoma County is not
a sanctuary county.
That phrase or that word is complicated.
It means many things to many people.
But our Board of Supervisors has long been
leaders in this movement to make sure that,
as a county, we are serving everybody who
lives within our jurisdiction and making sure
that folks have information and access to
the people that represent them.
So, this idea really was developed in a series
of resolution that the Board of Supervisors
undertook, starting really in January of this
year, to make sure that folks in our community
knew that the Board of Supervisors, and the
county, as a whole, was there to serve them
and that we were going to not only provide
information in Spanish, but provide culturally
competent information, and making sure that
we were giving folks services and help and
addressing their unique needs and their unique
questions.
Kind of mixed-status families have all kinds
of complicated legal questions, and the legal
resources available to folks in our county
at low and no cost are very, very few.
So the county has been working with a public-private
partnership to ensure that we fundraise to
increase the capacity of our nonprofit organizations
to provide increased amounts of legal services,
given the needs of our community.
AMY GOODMAN: And the significance of the ICE
chief, Homan, saying that Sonoma County is
non-cooperating?
What does that mean?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: Well, what Sonoma County
does is follow the law.
There was a decision in Miranda v. Clackamas
County up in Oregon that sets forth a right
to people to have their Fourth Amendment rights
protected, and saying that ICE detainers—basically,
ICE sending a request to a local law enforcement
agency to hold people after their time of
their release—is unconstitutional, that
it actually requires a warrant to hold that
person, and some probable cause in order to
continue to detain them.
So, Sonoma County, like many other jurisdictions
throughout the Ninth Circuit, has followed
that decision and has followed the law and
respected people’s constitutional rights.
So, while we do follow also California Truth
and Trust Act, as well as the upcoming SB
54, which is California’s sanctuary act,
that will start being implemented in January,
Sonoma County is just making sure that it’s
following the law.
AMY GOODMAN: Will you lose federal funding?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: We have actually been
part of a number of legal challenges to the
Trump administration’s executive orders,
led by many counties and cities throughout
the country, to challenge the changes in policy
that we allege are unconstitutional and threaten
counties’ basic access to funding for law
enforcement.
The kind of broad, unconstitutional reach
of the administration’s executive orders
has threatened counties’ basic ability to
continue to receive federal funds, which make
up a large amount of our budget to ensure
that people continue to be served.
AMY GOODMAN: Both of you, a final message,
especially to the undocumented community here,
I mean, for people to understand, outside
of this area, what is happening?
Just talking to folks last night in San Francisco,
they describe of the orange glow over San
Francisco.
Now, they weren’t experiencing the fires.
But the devastation that you’re facing right
now, fires still burning, though much more
contained, the massive number of evacuees,
the loss of people’s homes, the loss of
life, of course, the worst of all.
But what message, in particular, do you have
to the Latino and the undocumented communities?
Juan?
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: So what I want to say
is that this is not the first rodeo for the
immigrant community being under attack either
by our current president.
We have been attacked since the creation of
this country.
So, we feel that this is a resilient community.
The difference now is that there’s people
like Alegría who are working within the county
office.
There’s executive directors, like myself,
who are on the same page.
And we’re a resilient community, and we
will be here to help our community to the
end.
At our community level, President Trump is
irrelevant.
AMY GOODMAN: Last comment, Alegría?
ALEGRÍA DE LA CRUZ: We are here in a united
front for our entire community.
We are one community.
This recovery effort is not going to happen
unless we are united, unless the recovery
effort is based on equity and ensuring that
everybody has their piece of this important
effort to make sure that Santa Rosa and Sonoma
County become whole again.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to thank you both for
being here.
Alegría De La Cruz is chief deputy county
counselor of Sonoma County—hit so hard by
these wildfires.
And Juan Hernandez III, executive director
of the La Luz Center in Santa Rosa.
JUAN HERNANDEZ III: Sonoma.
AMY GOODMAN: In Sonoma County.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org.
When we come back, we’ll speak with Max
Moritz, a fire research scientist with the
University of California.
And then we’ll speak with the heads of 350.org,
the Indigenous Environmental Network and Rainforest
Action Network about what they are doing now
around the issues of climate change in this
country and around the world.
Stay with us.
We’re broadcasting from Northern California.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: Chicano Batman, performing in
the Democracy Now!
studios their song “La Jura,” “The Police,”
from their new album, Freedom is Free.
To see their full interview and performances,
you can go to democracynow.org.
