AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We begin today’s show in Puerto Rico, one
month after it was devastated by Hurricane
Maria and, before that, Hurricane Irma.
Four out of five Puerto Ricans are still without
electricity, and food and water remain in
short supply.
Puerto Rico’s Governor Ricardo Rosselló
has set a goal of re-establishing electricity
to 30 percent of the island by the end of
this month.
Meanwhile, on Monday, the island’s Secretary
of State Luis Rivera Marín posted a shocking
video of himself standing in a large dumpster,
where he claimed to have found food and water
that had been discarded instead of distributed.
SECRETARY OF STATE LUIS RIVERA MARÍN: [translated]
Look, this is the food of the people that
we should be distributing to Puerto Rico.
We are seeing a whole pallet of boxes of food.
We’re going to do an inventory of this.
This is water, the water that the people need.
We’re going to see what explanation they
have to give us, because this makes even the
eyes of God cry.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: As Puerto Rico struggles to
rebuild, we turn now to a major new investigation
that examines the looming question of what
will happen to the island’s $74 billion
debt that’s owed to bondholders as it faces
an estimated $95 billion in storm-related
damage.
Reporters at the Center for Investigative
Journalism in Puerto Rico and In These Times
in the United States spent five months digging
through court filings and documents from financial
firms and much more in order to put together
the most up-to-date list of 10 of the largest
financial firms that are now scrambling to
get billions of dollars out of the bankrupt
island as it tries to rebuild.
More than 30 known financial firms are vying
for Puerto Rico’s debt repayments, of which
at least 24 are so-called vulture funds, that
specialize in high-risk assets and cater to
wealthy investors.
Several of the funds were complicit in past
financial crises in other parts of the world,
including in Argentina and Greece, as well
as during the 2008 financial collapse in the
United States.
After President Trump visited Puerto Rico
earlier this month, he told Fox News his administration
would help the island recover from the extensive
damage caused by Hurricane Maria by possibly
wiping out its massive debt.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Well, we’re going
to work something out.
We have to look at their whole debt structure.
You know, they owe a lot of money to your
friends on Wall Street, and we’re going
to have to wipe that out.
That’s going to have to be—you know, you
can say goodbye to that.
I don’t know if it’s Goldman Sachs, but
whoever it is, you can wave goodbye to that.
We have to do something about it, because
the debt was massive on the island.
AMY GOODMAN: Trump’s comments shook financial
markets.
The next morning, White House budget director
Mick Mulvaney walked back the remarks, saying
they should not be taken word for word.
MICK MULVANEY: Dealing with the challenges
that Puerto Rico had—the island is at least
$72 billion in debt, $120 [billion] if you
go by other counts, before the storm.
We are going to focus our attention right
now on rebuilding the island, repairing the
island, making sure everybody is safe and
that we get through this difficult times.
We are not going to deal right now with those
fundamental difficulties that Puerto Rico
had before the storm.
By the way—and that not—many folks have
not talked about this yet—a lot of those
issues are already dealt with through previous
legislation called PROMESA.
AMY GOODMAN: This comes after Trump tweeted
last month that, quote, “Puerto Rico, which
was already suffering from broken infrastructure
& massive debt, is in deep trouble,” with,
quote, “billions of dollars owed to Wall
Street and the banks which, sadly, must be
dealt with.”
In a minute, we’ll go to San Juan to be
joined via Democracy Now!
video stream by Carla Minet, co-author of
the new investigation, “Who Owns Puerto
Rico’s Debt, Exactly?”
Minet, a journalist and editor with the Center
for Investigative Journalism, based in Puerto
Rico, an award-winning independent media outlet
that’s marking its 10th anniversary this
year.
But first we go to Chicago, Illinois, where
we’re joined by Jessica Stites, executive
editor of In These Times, editor on this new
investigation.
We welcome you to Democracy Now!, Jessica.
Why don’t you lay out what you found?
JESSICA STITES: Sure.
So, we teamed up with the Center for Investigative
Journalism in Puerto Rico, which has been
doing amazing work for years looking into
this debt crisis.
And what we wanted to know was who are the
current owners of the debt.
And you’d think that would be an easy question,
because the owners of the debt are in court
fighting with the government of Puerto Rico,
trying to get the money back.
But actually, this is an incredibly secretive
process.
A lot of this happens behind closed doors,
and it’s not at all public who is involved
in these negotiations.
So what the center did was comb through these
bankruptcy documents that have been filed
in court since May, and pull out the names
of these bondholders and creditors that are
trying to get their payments.
And we were actually surprised by what we
found.
We have heard a lot of names floated in relation
to the Puerto Rican debt crisis, a lot of
big firms.
We know at some point Goldman Sachs has been
involved, Merrill Lynch has been involved.
But the firms that are most active in bankruptcy
court right now, we found, were what are called
vulture firms.
And as Juan mentioned, these are firms—these
are hedge funds, and they specialize in high-risk
assets, so troubled assets.
So they’re going into places where there’s
a risk of a default, a risk of a bankruptcy,
and they’re buying up this stuff and selling
it to investors who tend to be very high-net-worth
people.
We are looking at investment thresholds of
a million to 5 million dollars to even buy
into these firms.
And although, you know, there are a lot of
debt holders, this is who we’re seeing really
kind of fighting tooth and nail in court to
try to get this money back.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Jessica, there was quite
a bit of difficulty on the part of the Center
for Investigative Journalists to even get
the government to release some of the original
folks who bought the bonds, not necessarily
the ones who have them now.
Can you talk a little bit about that legal
battle that went on for, I think, a couple
of years?
JESSICA STITES: Sure, yeah.
Carla can tell you more about that, but I
certainly know that they put in, as they should
have, a public records request.
Puerto Rico is part of the United States.
It’s governed by the same public records
law.
And the government basically told them, “No,
we’re not going to give you this information.”
They cited privacy of the creditors.
And so, the center had to go to court and
sue for it, and it took months.
And so they finally got the names of the people
who had bought this initial 2014 junk bond
emission.
But at the point they got them, in 2015, you
know, that information was already becoming
old, because this debt continues to change
hands.
So getting up-to-date names and debt amounts
has been incredibly difficult.
AMY GOODMAN: Earlier this month, Democracy
Now!
spoke to Democratic Congressmember Nydia Velázquez
of New York’s 7th Congressional District,
originally from Puerto Rico.
She said she supports debt forgiveness.
REP.
NYDIA VELÁZQUEZ: Forget about public debt
right now.
The most important aspect and commitment,
from my end, is to fight to get the resources
that we need.
If we don’t make Puerto Rico whole, you’re
going to see a massive migration of people
coming into the United States.
And hedge funds or others who are owed money,
they need to forget that Puerto Rico will
be able to pay anything.
If anything, we have to take care of retirees
in Puerto Rico and the pension liabilities.
I think that every—
AMY GOODMAN: Should the debt be forgiven?
Forgiven?
REP.
NYDIA VELÁZQUEZ: If there is a way, in terms
of the authority of the federal government,
yes, I will support it.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: That was Congresswoman Nydia
Velázquez talking to Democracy Now!
just a few days ago.
We’re also joined by Carla Minet, who’s
a co-author of the new investigation published
jointly by the Center for Investigative Journalism
in Puerto Rico and In These Times.
Carla, welcome to Democracy Now!
CARLA MINET: Good morning.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: You list a bunch of the, especially
the top 10, holders of the debt.
And not surprisingly, from what I saw of the
list, seven of the 10 are based in New York
City.
Could you talk about some of these funds?
Many of them are hardly household names.
Few people know they even exist, except if
they’re in the financial world.
CARLA MINET: Yeah, definitely.
Well, for us, we’ve been investigating this
issue for the past three years, at least,
so most of them are not new names.
But in some cases, like Decagon Holdings,
whose parent company is The Baupost Group,
we just knew about their owners just recently,
because a journalist went on looking for directions,
different kind of anonymous directions, and
finally got to an address where they found
the owner of the firm.
So, some of them have been anonymous for some
time.
AMY GOODMAN: Carla, we’re very glad we were
able to get you online.
We had hoped to have you on video stream,
but, you know, obviously, it’s extremely
difficult in Puerto Rico right now.
And before we go on with the investigation,
can you just describe the situation on the
ground?
This is a month after Hurricane Maria hit,
and now President Trump threatening to pull
FEMA workers out, saying the U.S. can’t
stay or the workers can’t stay in Puerto
Rico, quote, “forever.”
CARLA MINET: Yeah.
Well, right now, we—there will be a month,
this Friday, since Maria came into Puerto
Rico.
We have to remember, we first saw Irma, hurricane,
also.
And, you know, these four weeks have been
like hell for everyone in Puerto Rico.
We are still very stranded.
There’s electricity for only less than 20
percent of the population, and water for around
30 percent or so.
We really have very difficult communications
using cellular phones in Puerto Rico.
You can do it only mostly in San Juan, the
capital.
And, you know, mostly people are without food,
without water, especially in the mountainous
region of the island.
They lost their homes.
They have no roofs.
FEMA help has been very, very slow in Puerto
Rico.
And, you know, we’re still even clearing
the roads in some places.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Carla, I’d like to
ask you about the—to go back to your report
and to list some of the firms that you highlight
in the report.
I’m just looking at the list of the New
York-based firms, which is most of them: Autonomy
Capital, Monarch Alternative [Capital], GoldenTree
Asset Management, Aurelius Capital, Tilden
Park, Stone Lion Capital and Fundamental Advisors.
Interestingly, as you note in your report,
these vulture funds are in different alliances,
because they have—they hold different parts
of the Puerto Rico debt and are often at odds
with each other over who is first in line,
in case there is a reduced payout, who’s
going to be the first one at the front of
the line.
So could you talk about this battle between
the bondholders?
CARLA MINET: Well, yes.
As you said, some of the bondholders have
different kinds of bonds.
Puerto Rico, you know, has 18 different kinds
of bonds.
So, in some cases, there are definitely conflicts,
even inside some of the firms that own different
kinds of those bonds.
And some have priority.
Some are constitutionally emitted, but some
of them are not.
So, there are lots of criteria that anyone
deciding who’s going to be paid will have
to take into consideration.
So, they are all like forming alliances, that
have the same legal representation.
Also, they have the same lobbies.
They have the same public relations firms.
So, in terms of what—what’s the common
interest they want to—they want to defend
in court or publicly, they form these groups.
There are five groups right now in the Title
III bankruptcy process.
And, you know, it’s a big battle.
It’s $74.8 billion debt battle, the biggest
in the U.S.
So, a lot of people are having different kinds
of interests.
And in the end, there are small bondholders,
and then at the very end are Puerto Ricans.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you so
much for being with us, Carla Minet, co-author
of the new investigation, jointly published
by her organization, the Center for Investigative
Journalism in Puerto Rico, and In These Times.
It’s titled “Who Owns Puerto Rico’s
Debt, Exactly?
We’ve Tracked Down 10 of the Biggest Vulture
Firms.”
And thank you so much to Jessica Stites, joining
us from Chicago, executive editor of In These
Times.
When we come back again, we find out—the
voices on the ground in Puerto Rico—what’s
happening today.
Stay with us.
