AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan González.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We begin today’s show in Alabama, where
in a stunning upset Democrat Doug Jones defeated
Republican Roy Moore in the controversial
race to fill the Alabama Senate seat left
vacant by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
With 100 percent of the vote tallied, Jones
led Moore by nearly 21,000 votes, a margin
of one-and-a-half percentage points.
With Jones in the Senate, the Republicans’
majority will narrow to 51-49, endangering
Trump’s agenda and possibly ushering in
a Democratic wave in next year’s congressional
elections.
Jones addressed supporters in a victory speech
Tuesday night.
SEN.-ELECT DOUG JONES: I am truly overwhelmed.
I am truly, truly overwhelmed.
But you know, folks—and you have all heard
me say this at one point or another in this
campaign—I have always believed that the
people of Alabama had more in common than
to divide us.
We have shown, not just around the state of
Alabama, but we have shown the country the
way that we can be unified.
… I’ve said it before: Alabama has been
at a crossroads.
We have been at crossroads in the past.
And unfortunately, we have usually taken the
wrong fork.
Tonight, ladies and gentlemen, you took the
right road.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Doug Jones’ victory marks
the first time in 25 years that a Democrat
has won a U.S. Senate race in Alabama.
Tuesday’s special election was highly controversial,
pitting Doug Jones against Roy Moore, an accused
pedophile with a long history of racism, sexism,
homophobia and Islamophobia.
Roy Moore has so far refused to concede the
race, and, on Tuesday night, called for a
recount.
But President Donald Trump, who had repeatedly
endorsed Moore, did acknowledge his defeat,
tweeting, quote, “Congratulations to Doug
Jones on a hard fought victory.
The write-in votes played a very big factor,
but a win is a win.
The people of Alabama are great, and the Republicans
will have another shot at this seat in a very
short period of time.
It never ends!”
unquote.
AMY GOODMAN: Tuesday’s vote was highly divided
by race and gender, with African-American
voters, particularly women, largely responsible
for defeating Roy Moore.
Overall, 96 percent of African-American voters
voted for Doug Jones, with a staggering 98
percent of all black women voting for Jones.
In contrast, nearly 70 percent of white voters
voted for Roy Moore.
A full 63 percent of white women voted for
Moore, despite Moore being accused by multiple
women of sexually harassing or assaulting
them when they were teenagers, one as young
as 14.
Democratic strategist Symone Sanders, who
served as Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders’
press secretary during his presidential campaign,
said, quote, “Doug Jones would not have
won today without the turnout we saw from
African-American voters.
… Black women have been absolutely clear
in their support for Democratic policies and
Democratic candidates.
It’s high time for Democrats to invest in
that effort,” unquote.
This is Roy Moore speaking Tuesday night,
telling supporters in Montgomery that votes
were still coming in, and state law would
trigger a recount if the margin was within
half a percent.
ROY MOORE: Realize when the vote is this close,
it is not over.
And we’ve still got to go by the rules about
this recount provision.
And the secretary of state has explained it
to us, and we’re expecting that the press
will go up there and talk to them to find
out what the situation is.
But we also know that God is always in control.
You know, part of the thing—part of the
problem with this campaign is we’ve been
painted in an unfavorable and unfaithful light.
We’ve been put in a hole, if you will.
And it reminds me of a passage in Psalm 40:
“I waited patiently for the Lord.”
… And that’s what we’ve got to do, is
wait on God and let this process play out.
AMY GOODMAN: Meanwhile, Alabama Secretary
State John Merrill says the votes from Tuesday’s
election will be certified between December
26 and January 3rd.
Doug Jones’ victory means the Republicans’
majority in the Senate will narrow to 51 to
49.
For more, we’re joined by Pema Levy, political
reporter for Mother Jones who has been following
voter turnout and voter suppression in the
race closely.
Her latest article is headlined “Doug Jones
Rides a Perfect GOP Storm to the Senate.”
Welcome to Democracy Now!, Pema.
Start off with your response to what happened
yesterday and the staggering vote of African
Americans, particularly African-American women.
PEMA LEVY: Yeah, I mean, what happened last
night is a really big deal.
I think it shocked the entire country when
Doug Jones pulled this off.
And, absolutely, it was—could not have been
done without the support of African-American
voters.
I think there was a lot of worry leading up
to yesterday that those voters would not turn
out.
Even leaders in the African-American community
that I spoke with were worried that they would
not be there.
But I think what we’re seeing is that this
is a wave, and, you know, African-American
voters are part of that wave.
And they’re, for Democrats, a critical part
of that wave, and, like you said, women especially.
You know, women vote more than men, across
the board.
And so, absolutely, African-American women
are going to be an absolutely important factor
when it comes to Democratic victories, especially
close ones like we had last night in Alabama.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Pema, could you talk
about the impact also of the write-in vote?
Because, obviously, this represented those
Republicans who, despite Donald Trump’s
entreaties, could not get themselves to vote
for Roy Moore.
PEMA LEVY: Yeah, I think the write-in vote
is pretty interesting.
Right now it looks like the right-in vote
is slightly larger than the margin between
Jones and Moore.
Ultimately, I’m not sure that it will make
the difference, because I think that it just
so happens that a lot of people, when they
write in a name, they actually write in a
candidate.
So I think a certain number of those write-in
votes will actually be votes for Doug Jones
or Roy Moore.
I think the bigger impact here was folks that
probably didn’t want to vote for Moore,
and instead of writing someone in, they just
stayed home.
I think what really killed Moore in this election
is that his base just did not turn out the
way that the Democratic base turned out for
Jones.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to go to another clip
of Doug Jones’ victory speech Tuesday night
after this surprise upset against Roy Moore.
SEN.-ELECT DOUG JONES: As Dr. King liked to
quote, the moral arc of the universe is long,
but it bends toward justice.
Tonight—tonight, ladies and gentlemen—tonight—tonight,
in this time, in this place, you helped bend
that moral arc a little closer to that justice.
And you did it.
That moral arc, not only was it bent more,
not only was its aim truer, but you sent it
right through the heart of the great state
of Alabama in doing so.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that’s Doug Jones significantly
quoting Dr. Martin Luther King.
Explain Doug Jones’ history as a prosecutor
prosecuting Ku Klux Klan members who were
involved with the bombing of the 16th Street
Church in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1963.
Of course, the prosecution happened much later
than that.
PEMA LEVY: Yes, it did.
You know, when that bomb went off in 1963,
the situation in Birmingham was that the police
were essentially in cahoots with the KKK.
And, you know, it was impossible to put on
a trial and bring the bombers to justice.
And so they were not tried for a long time.
One of them was put away in the ’70s, when
Alabama elected a progressive attorney general.
But that person could not get the support
of the FBI to go further.
And so it was not until the late ’90s, when
Doug Jones was a federal prosecutor in Birmingham,
that they were able to put this together.
And Jones—you know, I’ve talked to people
who worked with him on this case, who were
in his office, and they said, you know, this
was a meticulous, dogged, three-year process.
Jones did an incredible amount of work.
It was not guaranteed.
You know, you have a cold case.
It’s 40 years old.
That is a remarkable thing to be able to pull
off.
And Jones, you know, by all accounts, was
incredibly dedicated to bringing these people
to justice and for turning a page in Alabama
history.
And so you, I think, see that again last night
in his speech, the idea that the Alabama that
he knows and loves is not the one that we
think of when we read about the 1960s and
we hear about the bombings.
And he wants to sort of turn that page.
And I think that he feels like he did that
again last night.
Of course, we are, you know, 13,000 votes
away from Roy Moore going to the U.S. Senate,
so this was a close election.
On the other hand, Alabama came very close
to sending Moore to Washington, but they didn’t.
And I think that Jones is right to say that
this is a remarkable moment for his state.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Pema Levy, what do you
think this will mean now in the Senate itself?
Obviously, it’s one less Republican.
It’s now a 51-to-49 margin in the Senate.
How will this have an impact on the Republican
Party and on Donald Trump’s agenda in Washington?
PEMA LEVY: Yeah, I think it will have an effect
on both, and I think that they’re connected.
I think, you know, on the one hand, like you
just said, Republicans now have 51 votes.
They have the vice president to break a tie.
But they still—that means they need even
more support from the more moderate folks,
like Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski.
It means, you know, that they have to—they
basically are not guaranteed.
They’ve already struggled to pass tax reform.
They couldn’t pass their Obamacare repeal.
It’s going to be even harder for them.
And I think the second thing is, when Democrats—or,
sorry, when Republicans see what just happened
in Alabama, they’re going to be afraid that
it can happen to them, right?
If a Republican can lose in Alabama—you
know, we have next year’s midterms coming
up—a Republican could lose almost anywhere
now.
And so, I think the fear is, “Well, should
I go along with this, whatever the priorities
that Republicans want, because it’s not
popular, it’s not working.
I’m afraid I might lose.”
And so I think that, you know, the added fear
of what—from what happened last night could
also have an impact on policy in Washington.
AMY GOODMAN: After his victory over Roy Moore,
Doug Jones emphasized the diversity of his
supporters in Alabama, during his victory
speech on Tuesday night.
SEN.-ELECT DOUG JONES: You know, I keep hearing
about the different communities in this state.
The African-American community, thank you!
My friends—my friends in the Latino community,
thank you!
To all my Jewish friends, happy Hanukkah!
We have—we have built this everywhere we
have gone.
We have had that same energy.
We’ve had that same excitement.
At the end of the day, this entire race has
been about dignity and respect.
This campaign—this campaign has been about
the rule of law.
This campaign has been about common courtesy
and decency, and making sure everyone in this
state, regardless of which ZIP code you live
in, is going to get a fair shake in life.
AMY GOODMAN: A very different speech than
Roy Moore’s wife gave the night before,
talking about how they have black friends
and that they are not anti-Semitic because
one of Roy Moore’s lawyers is a Jew.
But the significance of this for Donald Trump,
of this huge defeat, Donald Trump really pulling
out all the stops to endorse Roy Moore?
When you look at what this means for him,
particularly around the issue of women and
all of the allegations of sexual assault,
misconduct, harassment against President Trump,
since Roy Moore brought this issue to the
fore, an accused pedophile himself, but Donald
Trump not relenting, what this actually means,
and even yesterday, in the midst of this special
election, tweeting out this sexist comment
against Senator Gillibrand?
PEMA LEVY: You can absolutely look at this
election last night through the lens of the
“Me Too” movement and say that they had
a huge victory.
And I think a lot of people were really worried,
going into this Senate race, that Alabama
would elect Roy Moore and that the message
it would send to women and to victims was
“It doesn’t matter if you come forward.
Powerful men will get away with it.
They’ll still get elected.
They’ll still be in office,” and, you
know, because that’s the message that was
sent when Donald Trump won the presidency.
But I think that, you know, this has been
an important message for victims to come forward.
And if anything, it adds more momentum to
this movement.
And that is, of course, bad news for Donald
Trump, who is the most high-profile person
in this movement, who’s someone who has
admitted to sexual assault on tape and now
has a target on his back.
So I think that, you know, this is a really
big deal from that perspective.
It’s an important moment for women’s rights
and for sexual harassment.
And I think that this election last night
ensured that women would, hopefully, feel
safe still coming forward and feel like they
are being heard.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And what about the mainstream
Republican leadership, many of whom obviously
were fearful of Moore being elected, because
they would see him as an albatross around
their neck for the rest of—going into the
2018 election.
There’s some speculation that many of them
are glad he was defeated.
PEMA LEVY: Yeah, I think that I would not
be surprised if that were the case, either.
I think, you know, Cory Gardner, the head
of the Senate campaign arm, said that they
would never endorse Roy Moore, and stayed
steadfastly against him.
And I think he was certainly not looking forward
to a 2018 in which all of the senators up
for re-election had to, you know, distance
themselves from Roy Moore, but not too much.
It was just going to be this awkward, horrible
dance that they were all going to have to
go through.
They would have to answer for his comments,
you know, constantly.
And I think that—yeah, I think there’s
probably a sigh of relief going on here for
a lot of people.
You know, certainly it makes it harder for
their priorities.
Certainly it sends a really bad message for
them about, you know, a wave coming against
them in 2018.
But at the same time, on a day-to-day basis,
I think their lives just got easier.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, it is astounding that
63 percent of white women voters voted for
Roy Moore.
Tarana Burke, the founder of the “Me Too”
movement, quoted—this is part of her tweet:
“I hope the 9 women who accused Roy Moore
feel some vindication tonight.
The world heard you.
We believed you.
#metoo.”
But 63 percent of white women voters in Alabama
did vote for Roy Moore, but this astounding
98 percent of black women voters voting for
Doug Jones.
And also what this means as a message to the
Democratic leadership, when it comes to where
they’re going to put their resources around
the country in get-out-the-vote campaigns?
It’s been something that’s divided the
DNC for quite some time, those who are pushing
for on-the-ground operations to reach the
grassroots, saying that they’re not doing
enough to do that.
But this certainly is a vindication of that
approach, Pema.
PEMA LEVY: Yes, absolutely.
I think that, you know, particularly in the
South, but really all over the country, you
see Democratic candidates, you know, when
they run in Republican territory, they really
focus on peeling off those conservative voters
that they think they can bring over to support
them.
And they do that at the cost of trying to
really fire up the base and really reaching
out to the African-American community, saying,
you know, not just “I’m not the other
guy,” but “Here’s what I’m going to
do for you.”
And I think that, you know, African-American
voters don’t want to be taken for granted.
They want to know that they’re—they want
you to know that they’re a critical part
of their base, and therefore you need to do
things that they need.
You know, for them, education is a really
big deal.
Healthcare is a really big deal.
You know, criminal justice is a very big deal.
And so, I do absolutely think that Democrats
would benefit from talking more directly to
those constituencies about those issues and
firing them up, because, as Doug Jones said,
I mean, absolutely, the Democratic Party is
a party of coalitions.
It’s a party of lots of different groups
of people coming together.
The Republican Party is much more monolithic.
And that’s by design.
They have decided to double down on white
voters.
And it has worked for them.
They, as you said, have a majority of white
voters.
They had 63 percent of white women last night.
And so, you know, absolutely, Democrats, I
think, at some point, will probably realize
that it’s in their best interest to actually
focus on the voters they have, rather than
spend all their resources on the voters that
they might want.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, there was a huge turnout
last night—not huge for other countries
in the world.
We’re talking around 40 percent.
But it equaled or surpassed the presidential
election years, even with President Obama.
Quite amazing.
Pema Levy, we want to thank you for being
with us, political reporter for Mother Jones.
Her latest article is headlined “Doug Jones
Rides a Perfect GOP Storm to the Senate.”
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, tomorrow, Thursday, December
14th, is the deadline for a vote in the FCC.
Will they try to end net neutrality?
That’s our next topic.
Stay with us.
