AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And I'm Nermeen Shaikh.
Welcome to our listeners and viewers around
the country and around the world.
The head of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee
announced Wednesday it’s reached the conclusion
that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential
election.
This comes as CNN reports a number of Russian-linked
Facebook ads specifically targeted Michigan
and Wisconsin, two states crucial to Trump’s
victory in November.
Republican Senator Richard Burr said his committee
was still examining evidence to determine
if there was any collusion between Moscow
and the Trump campaign.
SEN.
RICHARD BURR: We have not come to any determination
on collusion or Russia’s preferences.
If we use solely the social media advertising
that we have seen, there is no way that you
can look at that and say that that was to
help the right side of the ideological chart
and not the left, or vice versa.
They were indiscriminate.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: President Trump has called
allegations of campaign collusion with Russia
a hoax.
Meanwhile, the Justice Department is pursuing
a separate probe under special counsel Robert
Mueller.
Well, for more on Russia and Trump, we recently
spoke with award-winning Russian-American
author and journalist Masha Gessen.
Her new book is titled The Future is History:
How Totalitarianism Reclaimed Russia and has
just been shortlisted for the National Book
Award.
It looks at why democracy failed in Putin’s
Russia and how the country descended into
a more virulent and invincible strain of autocracy,
all in the space of a generation.
AMY GOODMAN: Masha Gessen’s book is a warning
to the United States today.
In many of her articles, she points to the
similarities between Trump and Putin, and
has repeatedly warned of the threat of autocracy
under a Trump presidency.
Two days after Trump’s stunning electoral
victory, she wrote an article for The New
York Review of Books headlined “Autocracy:
Rules for Survival,” which was widely circulated
on social media, received over a million views.
Masha Gessen is a visiting professor at Amherst
College, a regular contributor to The New
York Review of Books and The New York Times.
Her previous books include the best-seller
The Man Without a Face: The Unlikely Rise
of Vladimir Putin.
We spoke with her last week and started by
asking her about this viral story she wrote,
“Autocracy: Rules for Survival.”
MASHA GESSEN: So, the way that that piece
came about, actually, was that on election
night, like most people, I was at a horrible
party, you know, a party that began well and
ended horribly.
And by the time I got home, I got several
notes from people I knew, close friends and
not so close friends, sort of saying, “What
do we do now?”
as though I were some sort of guru on looming
disasters.
And I thought there was a point to that, because
even though I don’t think that Trump and
Putin are that similar—right?—they have
major points of similarity, because they perceive
power in the same way and because they perceive
politics in very much the same way.
Even though they don’t have—you know,
they’re very different men, there’s something
that I have learned over 20 years of covering
Putin and 20 years, even more importantly,
of living in a disintegrating democracy, that
I thought I could probably help convey to
my friends and to other people.
So that was sort of the genesis of that piece.
I think that things have gone pretty much
as badly as I had expected.
When I was asked what my greatest fear was,
I said my greatest fear was a nuclear holocaust,
which seemed ridiculous a little less than
a year ago, and we are on the brink of that,
actually, and we have been for weeks, which
is something that we try not to talk about,
because how do you talk about that?
I think that, certainly, one of the—one
of the six rules for autocracy was institutions
will not save you.
And the reason that I considered it necessary
to write that was because at the time, if
you remember, a lot of people were saying,
“Well, yes, Trump is the kind of politician
who has never been president in this country,
but institutions of our democracy are so strong
that he is not going to be able to do that
much damage.”
And my sense was that a lot of what people
thought of as institutions were actually norms
and habits and customs.
But even formal institutions are actually
not designed to stand up to somebody who is
dealing with them in bad faith.
And that’s what we have observed.
And we have observed institutions failing
to keep a check on Trump in many ways.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And what are some of the steps
that you think—I mean, apart from the impact
on institutions, or together with that, what
are the steps that Trump has taken that bear
the mark of autocratic rule?
MASHA GESSEN: Well, he governs by gesture.
Right?
And this is something that has been very difficult
for us, I think, to assimilate, because people
who are in the business of analyzing politics
and understanding politics think about politics
as policy and strategy and sort of a story
that has a future.
Right?
And Trump doesn’t think of politics that
way at all.
He thinks of effective gestures.
He thinks of demonstrating his power, right?
So, a good example is the tweet about banning
transgender people in the military.
Sort of the scramble to try to understand
what had just happened was fascinating to
me, because one of the first things that people
reacted by saying was, “Well, it’s a tweet,
right?
It’s not an executive order.”
Well, he is the commander-in-chief.
He can tweet his policy if he wants to.
Right?
To him, that’s the most effective gesture.
Then, the second order of interpretation was,
“Well, what does it mean?
You know, what is he trying to accomplish?”
He is not trying to accomplish anything, except
demonstrate his power, and, I think, also,
instinctively, sort of keep us on our toes.
Right?
The less predictable his behavior, the less—the
more sort of it’s oriented toward demonstrating
raw power, the more he accomplishes what he
intuitively wants to accomplish, which is
establish power.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: One of the things that you
say, and you’ve said several times in your
articles—I mean, you said just now that,
obviously, Trump and Putin are not identical,
but they do share much in common.
And, in fact, in one of your pieces, you suggested
that Trump, in certain ways, may actually
be worse.
You say—and let me quote you—”Where
Putin’s unpredictable persona is a carefully
cultivated one, Trump has given no evidence
that his madman act is an act.”
So, could you elaborate on that?
MASHA GESSEN: So, for many years, Putin established
what he thinks of as power, which is basically
being feared, by demonstrating to other world
leaders that he will stop at nothing.
Right?
So, in that sense, for example, his invasion
of Ukraine, which, again, a lot of people
have tried to interpret in sort of conventional
strategic terms—you know, Russia is interested
in Ukraine for this, that or another reason.
And that doesn’t hold up, because it’s
a losing war, it’s an extremely expensive
war, it’s an extraordinarily expensive and
pointless occupation in Crimea.
But it does something very important, and
it continues to do it as long as Putin stays
in Ukraine, which is that it shows that Putin
will do the inconceivable.
Right?
He will do things that, even as he is doing
them, continue to be absolutely shocking,
so shocking that we can’t even—can’t
really imagine it.
And that is a message that he’s sending
both to his people in Russia and to world
leaders, right?
And so, sort of the conventional wisdom on
Russia has consistently, under Putin, in the
West, moved toward the containment and just,
you know, “Let’s not poke the Russian
bear, because the Russian bear will stop at
nothing.”
And Putin does think that that’s power.
As long as Russia is feared in the world,
then he has established Russia as a great
world—re-established Russia as a great world
power.
So now we have Trump, who keeps doing shocking
things on the world stage, like threatening
to obliterate North Korea, which is just as
much—it seems as much of a madman act as
what Putin has done, and basically has one-upped
Putin’s game, except that, for Putin, it’s
at least partly strategic.
Right?
Not that I think he has any sort of moral
limitations on his actions.
But, to him, being—doing the unimaginable
is always a power play.
I think, for Trump, nothing is really unimaginable.
I mean, he perceives the world in exactly
the terms that he puts out in his tweets.
He thinks that standing up to North Korea
is probably equal to threatening it with obliteration.
And, you know, we’re lucky if it continues
to be just a threat.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to go to, then, the
normalizing of Trump.
You’ve got Trump himself and his statements,
and something that you continually talk about
is the very serious issue of normalization.
Now, the media in the United States has become
more oppositional than usual, to say the least,
or maybe for the first time oppositional,
when it comes to Trump, because he directly
called them out.
He talks about the failing New York Times,
fake news CNN, and he calls reporters by name,
so they are defending themselves.
And they tend to sound a little like Democracy
Now!
You know, “Independent media is essential
to the functioning of a democratic society,”
they say.
But that’s true on a number of issues, like
they’re talking about him being a liar.
They’re willing to say that.
MASHA GESSEN: Some of us.
AMY GOODMAN: Interestingly, they weren’t
quite willing to say that George Bush was
a liar, when it came to weapons of mass destruction.
But I wanted to go to the areas where there
isn’t that kind of questioning.
And that is, on the one hand, climate change.
When it comes to the nonstop coverage of hurricanes,
almost no mention of climate change—not
just in Fox, but in MSNBC and CNN.
And then the issue of war and bombing.
The night that the United States bombed that
Syrian airfield, when a number of reporters
and commentators said, “Now Trump has become
president,” or the day in Afghanistan he
dropped the largest non-nuclear bomb in the
history of the world, the MOAB, the “mother
of all bombs.”
But let’s go back to Syria.
Now, we’re not going to Fox.
We’re going to MSNBC, when anchor Brian
Williams referred to the Pentagon video of
the U.S. missiles fired at Syria, referred
to it as “beautiful” three times in 30
seconds.
BRIAN WILLIAMS: We see these beautiful pictures
at night from the decks of these two U.S.
Navy vessels in the eastern Mediterranean.
I am tempted to quote the great Leonard Cohen:
“I’m guided by the beauty of our weapons.”
And they are beautiful pictures of fearsome
armaments making what is for them a brief
flight over to this airfield.
What did they hit?
AMY GOODMAN: Can you hear Leonard Cohen rolling
over in his grave?
Well, that was MSNBC’s Brian Williams.
And this is CNN’s Fareed Zakaria speaking
on New Day Friday morning of that week.
FAREED ZAKARIA: I think Donald Trump became
president of the United States.
I think this was actually a big moment, because
candidate Trump had said that he would never
get involved in the Syrian civil war.
He told President Obama, “You cannot do
this without the authorization of Congress.”
He seemed unconcerned with global norms.
President Trump recognized that the president
of the United States does have to act to enforce
international norms, does have to have this
broader moral and political purpose.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that was CNN’s Fareed Zakaria
and, before that, Brian Williams.
Masha Gessen?
MASHA GESSEN: You know, the thing about normalization
is that, in a way, it’s inevitable, because
this is the reality that we’re living in,
right?
This is the president of the United States.
And to entirely refuse to normalize him would
be to deny that reality.
And I think that’s the problem that faces
a lot of journalists, which is: How do you
continue to do your job, how do you continue
to treat this—your job seriously, if—you
know, if we have a deranged clown for a president?
And so, the moment that he starts acting a
little bit less like a deranged clown, the
moment that he does something like lob 59
missiles at Syria, which is more normal in
terms of the presidency than tweeting—right?—about
Arnold Schwarzenegger’s ratings on The Apprentice—
AMY GOODMAN: Which doesn’t make it right.
MASHA GESSEN: It doesn’t make it right,
but it is closer to what—
AMY GOODMAN: It’s what presidents do.
MASHA GESSEN: Yeah, to what we assume presidents
do, or at least the president of this country.
And, you know, the spectacle of this country
going to war is more—we’re more accustomed
to it.
And journalists are more accustomed to covering
that than they are to covering presidents
acting like small children throwing a tantrum
on Twitter.
And so, that moment, you know, what Fareed
Zakaria says, I think, or what Brian Williams
is doing, is expressing his own relief at
feeling, for at least for seven minutes, like
he can comprehend the reality that he is called
upon to interpret.
AMY GOODMAN: But isn’t there also an element
here of the major problem for establishment
journalists, especially when it comes to war—and
it’s not only around Trump, it’s just
that they didn’t respond to Trump any differently—that
they circle the wagons around the White House
when it comes to war?
MASHA GESSEN: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, it’s—but that, you know, that
is normal.
That is normal in American journalism.
This is actually not new to us, right?
What’s new is plugging Trump into that role.
And the thing is, I think, you know, in his
sort of television feedback loop, he is learning
some important lessons: He looks his best
when he goes to war.
You know, the way that the picture on television
changed, from the day before missiles were
fired at Syria to the day they were fired,
was absolutely extraordinary.
You know, the day before, there were—in
fact, the day before, I was at Lincoln Center
in New York during an interview with Nikki
Haley, who was literally laughed off the stage.
And then, the following day, there she was
on television, you know, being interviewed
one on one and suddenly sounding like a stateswoman.
Right?
And there was a lot of one on one with Trump
officials that day, and especially with Nikki
Haley, which there hadn’t been for weeks
leading up to it.
You know, there had been talking heads with
usually one Trump supporter and three or four
more intelligent people.
And all of that was like gone from the picture
the moment missiles were fired at Syria.
And that, I think, is a very good lesson for
him in what looks good.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, apart from that,
you’ve also talked about the way in which
the media has responded to his, by now, extremely
well-documented litany of lies.
You point, in particular—and it’s not
the only example—of NPR not calling—calling
his lies “misstatements.”
So, could you talk about what the danger of
that is, or what you think the danger of that
is?
MASHA GESSEN: So this is—I think this is
one of the ways in which we can really get
a chance to sort of re-examine American journalistic
practices and assumptions behind some American
journalism, which is that it always exists
sort of out of time and out of place, right?
It’s the view from nowhere, which is a thing
in journalism—right?—in American journalism,
translates into pretending that we don’t
know what came yesterday and we have no idea
what’s going to happen tomorrow.
How that relates to the idea of not calling
his lies “lies” is that, you know, NPR
explains that in order to call something—that
a lie is an intentional fiction, right?
And since NPR doesn’t have a direct line
to Trump’s soul, they don’t know whether
he actually intends to mislead us or whether
he accidentally makes a misstatement.
AMY GOODMAN: So, for example, when he talks
about his crowd size, that it was larger than
President Obama’s, and you see the pictures—1.8
million, and his is a tenth of the size—and
he says his was larger.
MASHA GESSEN: So, because NPR doesn’t have
a direct line to his brain, they don’t know
how he’s perceiving the picture.
Maybe he is just seeing more people in that
picture.
You know, look, I mean, it’s absurd, right?
But I think it communicates something very
important, which is that basically NPR says,
“We’re going to insist that every time
it happens, it’s like it’s never happened
before,” because the only way that you can
claim that he has perhaps accidentally misstated
facts is if you don’t remember that he did
the exact same thing five minutes ago and
10 minutes ago and 10 days ago and 10 years
ago, right?
And that—I mean, that’s a real sort of
abdication of responsibility to engage with
the reality that they’re supposed to cover.
AMY GOODMAN: Award-winning author and journalist
Masha Gessen.
Her new book, The Future is History: How Totalitarianism
Reclaimed Russia.
It was just shortlisted for the National Book
Award.
Back with her in a minute.
