AMY GOODMAN: More than 70 migrants from Central
America remain camped out at the U.S.-Mexican
border attempting to seek asylum in the United
States.
They were all part of a month-long caravan
that brought refugees fleeing violence in
Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala to the
U.S. border.
Organizers say 158 members of the caravan
have already crossed the border, where their
asylum requests will be processed.
But experts predict most of the asylum applications
will be rejected.
President Trump has repeatedly railed against
the asylum seekers.
In one recent tweet, the president wrote,
“Getting more dangerous.
'Caravans' coming.”
The standoff at the U.S. border comes as a
new report shows the number of refugees, especially
Muslim refugees, has plummeted since President
Trump’s election.
Between October and the end of March, just
10,500 refugees entered the United States.
A year earlier, nearly 40,000 refugees entered
during that same period—four times more.
Well, today we spend the hour with two of
the nation’s most celebrated writers, both
refugees themselves.
Viet Thanh Nguyen was born in Vietnam in 1971.
After the fall of Saigon in 1975, he and his
family fled to the United States.
He’s the author of three books, including
The Sympathizer, which won the Pulitzer Prize.
He’s also the editor of a new collection
titled The Displaced: Refugee Writers on Refugee
Lives.
He teaches at the University of Southern California.
We’re also joined by Chilean-American writer
Ariel Dorfman, who’s been described as one
of the greatest Latin American novelists.
Forty-five years ago, he fled Chile, after
a U.S.-backed coup displaced President Salvador
Allende.
Dorfman had served as Allende’s cultural
adviser from 1970 to 1973.
Salvador Allende died in the palace as the
Pinochet forces rose to power on that other
September 11th, 1973.
Living in exile, Ariel Dorfman became one
of General Pinochet’s most vocal critics,
as well as a celebrated playwright and novelist.
Dorfman, who teaches at Duke University, has
just published a new novel, Darwin’s Ghost,
and a new collection of essays titled Homeland
Security Ate My Speech.
He also contributed an essay to The Displaced:
Refugee Writers on Refugee Lives.
Viet and Ariel, we welcome you both to Democracy
Now!
It’s a great honor to have you with us.
Viet, let us begin with you.
In this era of President Trump, as President
Trump and Vice President Pence head to Dallas
today to speak at the National Rifle Association,
and this caravan that President Trump has
railed against has made it to the U.S.-Mexico
border, the participants lawfully applying
for asylum one by one, your thoughts?
VIET THANH NGUYEN: I think they have the right
to do that.
The United States has been meddling in the
southern countries south of the border for
a very long time, and would rather think about
these people as undocumented immigrants or
people who are trying to invade this country,
when in fact questions of immigration are
totally related to U.S. foreign policy and
U.S. drug policy and things like this that
the United States would rather disavow.
So I think it’s a powerful political protest
that’s bringing to visibility the human
crises that are taking place around these
efforts for people to move.
AMY GOODMAN: In your book The Displaced, you
write in the introduction, “I was once a
refugee, although no one would mistake me
for being a refugee now.
Because of this, I insist on being called
a refugee, since the temptation to pretend
that I am not a refugee is strong.”
Talk about this.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, I think this is a
country that values immigrants.
Even people who don’t like immigrants like
the idea of immigrants wanting to come to
this country, because it affirms how great
this country is supposed to be, the narrative
of the American dream.
Refugees are a very different problem, if
you want to call them that.
They’re unwanted where they come from.
They’re unwanted where they come to.
And they don’t fit into the narrative of
the American dream.
Those refugees who actually make it here to
this country and become successful, I think,
find it easier to call themselves immigrants,
because when you introduce yourself as a refugee
at a cocktail party, it really kills the conversation.
If you call yourself an immigrant, then people
want to know about your American dream story.
But refugees bring up these ideas of migrants
at the border, of people on boats, and many
Americans just do not relate to that.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about your own refugee story.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, I was born in Vietnam
in 1971.
And in 1975, when Vietnam fell, or was liberated,
depending on your point of view, my family
became refugees.
And my memories really start after we make
it to the United States and we were put in
one of four refugee camps in this country.
In our case, it was Fort Indiantown Gap in
Pennsylvania.
And my memories begin with being taken away
from my parents.
So, in order to leave the camp, you had to
have a sponsor.
One sponsor took my parents, one sponsor took
my 10-year-old brother, one sponsor took 4-year-old
me.
And so, that’s why I still think of myself
as a refugee, because that experience has
been branded on me.
AMY GOODMAN: And how does that affect your
life here in the United States, now a Pulitzer
Prize-winning author, a professor at University
of Southern California, chair of—what’s
the name of the department?
VIET THANH NGUYEN: I’m the Aerol Arnold
chair of English, which does not mean I’m
the actual chair of the department, thank
God.
But, well, I mean, how it’s affected me
has been that I refuse to call myself an immigrant.
I’m often called an immigrant writer.
My books are called—you know, The Sympathizer
was called an immigrant novel, and I said,
“That’s absolutely wrong.”
I’m a refugee.
This is a refugee novel, a war novel.
And I insist on that, because I think it’s
so important for people who are—who have
been refugees to assert these kinds of identities,
so we can continue to talk about the difference
between refugees and immigrants, and the necessity
to empathize with refugees, which is, I think,
very important for both former refugees and
writers to do.
AMY GOODMAN: You talked about refugees so
often being the victims of U.S. policy, foreign
policy.
So, for example, this caravan of immigrants
has—and refugees, has come up from Honduras
and Guatemala, El Salvador, as well.
Talk about that connection to the United States.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, one of the essays
in The Displaced is by Reyna Grande, who came
as an undocumented immigrant.
And I wanted her to write so that we could
have this conversation about what the difference
is between an undocumented immigrant and a
refugee.
A refugee is an official classification.
And the U.N. says there are about 22 million
refugees in the world right now, but about
66 million displaced people of various kinds.
So when you become officially classified as
a refugee, the U.N. says you have certain
kinds of rights.
So it’s in the interest of the United States
not to call certain kinds of people refugees.
Now, these people are moving for all kinds
of various reasons, but sometimes they’re
moving because of wars of certain kinds—drug
wars or actual shooting wars and things like
that—that the United States has had a role
in.
And so, to call some of these people refugees
is an important political move to illuminate
why it is that the United States might have
some moral, ethical and political responsibility
towards them.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re talking to Viet Thanh
Nguyen, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author.
He wrote The Refugees, or edited this book.
One of the people who contributed to The Refugees
[sic] is our next guest, after break, Ariel
Dorfman.
The book—oh, the latest book is called 
The Displaced.
Stay with us.
AMY GOODMAN: “Bang Bang” by Vietnamese
musician Thanh Lan.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman.
Before we go to Ariel Dorfman, the best-selling
author, playwright, poet, activist, author
of Darwin’s Ghosts and Homeland Security
Ate My Speech and contributor to Viet Thanh
Nguyen’s book The Displaced, I have to ask
you about that song, “Bang Bang,” which
features prominently in your earlier book,
The Sympathizer, Viet.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, I grew up in this
Vietnamese refugee community, and I would
often attend Vietnamese weddings.
And the Vietnamese people are really into
pop music.
And, you know, it’s a Western import, but
they’ve made it their own.
So, there’s been a big French influence
in Vietnamese popular music.
And I, you know, grew up going to these weddings,
where you would always hear Vietnamese, French
and English-language pop and rock songs.
And “Bang Bang” was one of those.
And when I wrote The Sympathizer, I really
wanted to incorporate a lot of the music that
I heard into the novel.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Ariel Dorfman, it was great
to see you reading from your new novel last
night, Darwin’s Ghosts, and we’ll try
to get to that in this hour.
But I wanted to talk to you about your essay
in Viet’s latest book, The Displaced: Refugee
Writers on Refugee Lives.
First tell us your refugee story.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Well, it’s longer and more
complicated than Viet’s, because it starts,
of course, with my grandparents, who had to
flee the pogroms of Romania, Russia, and the
situation in Russia, so they came to Argentina.
Then my dad had to leave, because the military
were persecuting him in 1944, to the United
States.
I had to follow him.
Then McCarthy began to persecute my dad here
in the United States in 1954.
Then we went to Chile.
I thought I would be there forever.
In Chile, there was a coup.
I had to leave Chile for Europe.
Then I wandered around the world and ended
up in the States.
And one of the things that traumatizes me
now, sincerely, Amy, is that I thought that,
in some sense, this couldn’t happen again,
and I find it happening all over again in
some very strange authoritarian way.
So, I have been a refugee several times over.
I personally prefer, because I’m so elitist
at times, the term “exile,” because I
think it also speaks to the fact that not
everybody in the world is a refugee, but everybody
is in exile from someplace, everybody is distanced
from someplace.
So I sort of emphasize that a lot.
But I feel an enormous sympathy for those
who have lost everything and who move across
these borders.
Now, in that essay that I contributed there,
I take a sort of tongue-in-cheek thing about
Trump’s wall, saying, “You’ll build
your wall”—or, I say, of course, he’s
not going to build, he can’t possibly build
it—”but we’re already here.”
And I use it through Latin American food,
saying the food is in supermarkets, it’s
everywhere.
And there’s only one place in the world
where every Latin American food can be found
in one place, and that’s the United States.
So, instead of celebrating the fact that this
country—you know, if you go to São Paulo,
Santiago de Chile or Mexico City, you can’t
find Brazilian food next to Colombian food
next to food from El Salvador.
But in the United States, you can do that.
So it turns out that this is an enormous strength
and wonder of the country.
So, Trump can eat his tacos, you know, all
he wants, but the fact is, we’re already
here.
And I like the idea of smuggling ourselves
across the border, which, by the way, of course,
is a border which was created by a U.S. invasion
of Mexico.
AMY GOODMAN: Maybe a way to convince President
Trump to try to stop his efforts at building
this wall is to say, “You’re going to
be keeping all these refugees in.”
ARIEL DORFMAN: Well, no, I think that it’s
more—you know, you spoke about Darwin’s
Ghosts, and one of the things that I’m really
very interested in is—this is my novel,
right?—is finding a way in which you can
take voices of those who have—of those countries
that have been invaded by the U.S. and by
the Western powers.
If you think about the last 500 years, since
1492, basically, but before that, there’s
an expansion of the West into every, every,
every country in the world—in Asia, Africa,
in Latin America, including, of course, Vietnam,
right?
And when you think of the fact that many of
the people from those countries are the ones
who come here to this country, because of
its attraction—right?—economic and freedoms,
in a way, what is happening is, we have to
think of how do those voices, those lives,
those dreams come back to haunt us.
And as a writer, what I like is to take those
voices, that are not voiceless—they speak
very strongly—the faces of those people,
and bring them into the country and put them
inside our own dreams and find out what happens.
It’s as if—it’s as if the fabulous of
Latin America, which I speak of magical realism,
things like that, all of a sudden surfaces
inside an American kid.
AMY GOODMAN: And how does that relate to your
novel Darwin’s Ghosts?
ARIEL DORFMAN: Well, I mean, in Darwin’s
Ghosts, a 14-year-old kid wakes up one morning.
He goes down to celebrate his birthday, September
11, 1981, and they take a photograph of him,
a Polaroid.
His dad works at the Polaroid factory.
And instead of his face being there in the
photograph, the face of a native of some sort
from across some part of the Third World—we
don’t know where—is plastered onto that
face.
And from that moment onward, he is haunted
by that face, but not haunted only in the
sense—
AMY GOODMAN: And each time they take his picture
that day, that face.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Each time—each time, from
that day, that face appears over and over
and over again.
So you can say that, in a sense, the past—and
some terrible crime has been committed against
the man who is in that photograph, that so-called
savage.
He takes over the life and the face and the
identity, and forces this young, typical American
kid to face what his own country has been
doing in these countries.
In a sense, it’s almost as if I had taken
that whole “Third World” and all of a
sudden thrust it straight into the mirror
of American life, and taken American innocence
and saying, “No, you can’t be that innocent.
You’re going to have to face what was done
in your name a hundred years ago,” and done
in France, done in Berlin.
And it’s all related to human zoos, which
is another topic which is very central to
the story.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain.
ARIEL DORFMAN: So, you know, in the 19th century,
as colonialism rose all over the world, and
Europe expanded, very, very drastically, not
everybody could go and visit these countries
and see these exotic “savages,” these
natives.
AMY GOODMAN: People who are listening on the
radio can’t see that you’re using air
quotes.
ARIEL DORFMAN: I’m sorry, I can’t do my
quotation marks about “savages,” right?
I mean, but they were called savages as such,
right?
And they’re exotic.
They’re strange.
They’re creatures from who-knows-where—from
Thailand, from Patagonia, from Africa.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, when we were together
last night at Barnes & Noble, just down the
street is the Museum of Natural History, where—
ARIEL DORFMAN:Right, they have dioramas.
AMY GOODMAN: —they displayed Inuits.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Live people.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Inside.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Right.
But this was—these were human zoos.
These people were kidnapped from their native
lands in Africa, in Latin America, in Asia,
and even the American Prairie Indians were
brought.
And they were displayed in zoos, and millions
of people, as if in reality shows, would go
there.
They would throw bananas at them.
They would speak about them.
And many of them, in fact, were subjected,
especially in the case of Patagonians, to
experiments by scientists, who were trying
to find the missing link in the Darwinian
chain of evolution, thinking that these were
an inferior form, a dehumanized form of—a
dehumanized form of humanity—right?—that
they were lower forms of humanity.
So, the idea behind this is, we are going
to find out that one of those photographs,
the man whose photograph is being plastered
on the face of this young American kid, in
fact, was a captive in a human zoo in Europe.
And the ancestors of this typical American
kid, one group from France and one group from
Germany, have directly to do with the capture
and the photography of that subject.
So, it’s the coming to life of that man.
And what do we do with the past?
What do we do with those people who have been
hurt by our ancestors?
How do we deal with that?
And, of course, behind that is the whole idea
that I have about America, America being innocent
about its past.
I think that until we—until Americans deal—and
I feel myself an American in that sense, very
proudly so, as a Chilean American, Argentine
American—I feel I’m a Vietnamese American,
I feel these are all the possibilities.
Until we deal with what the country has done,
we will not be able to go into a truly perfect
union, because we’re denying and erasing
the past.
And I think Trump is the incarnation—really,
incarnation—and the excrement of that denial
of the past.
So, my novel, in this case, very specifically,
is trying to take the most innocent kid you
can imagine, who everybody can identify, every—most
Americans can identify, and saying, here comes
this captive, somebody who was taken across
a border against his will, like slaves have—right?—and
so others have, or like Viet himself—he
didn’t want to come here necessarily, he
was just brought here, right?—and force
us to look into what that life means, and
also ask how we can forgive ourselves and
forgive the past, because I don’t think
that it’s a question always of revenge and
of anger.
There’s a gentleness that we have to find
in our relationship.
Those people who are coming across the border,
supposedly invading us, are the result of
multiple invasions of their lands in the past
and of very specific forms of drug wars and
wars in their countries right now, which the
United States has sponsored.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Ariel Dorfman, who knows
what U.S. intervention and invasions mean,
having been forced out of Chile as a result
of the CIA-backed coup, the Nixon-backed,
Kissinger-backed coup, that took out the president
of Chile in 1973.
Ariel Dorfman was cultural adviser to the
Chilean President Salvador Allende, who went
down and died in the palace in Santiago, September
11, 1973, on the first day of that coup.
Viet, your book, The Displaced: Refugee Writers
on Refugee Lives, your previous books, remarkable.
There are so many quotes from your books.
You write, “To become a refugee is to know,
inevitably, that the past is not only marked
by the passage of time, but by loss—the
loss of loved ones, of countries, of identities,
of selves.
We want to give voice to all those losses
that would otherwise remain unheard except
by us and those near and dear to us.”
And in a previous book, in your book Nothing
Ever Dies, you write, “All wars are fought
twice, the first time on the battlefield,
the second time in memory.”
Explain.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, I grew up in a Vietnamese
refugee community in the 1970s and 1980s in
San Jose.
And it was clear to me that just because the
war was declared over in 1975, it wasn’t
really over.
These people had lost everything.
They lost relatives, property, careers, identities,
selves.
They felt that they had lost their country.
And I grew up surrounded by people who were
constantly telling stories filled with anger
and sadness and rage and bitterness and melancholy.
But for most Americans, when they heard the
Vietnamese refugees speak, all the Vietnamese
refugees ever said in English was “Thank
you for saving us.”
And I know that there are Vietnamese refugees
who will say in private, “The United States
betrayed us,” but they won’t say that
in public in English.
And so, this was the environment that I grew
up in.
And I was also someone who was watching all
these American movies of the Vietnam War,
because I was an American boy.
And it was clear in these movies that Hollywood
was fighting America’s wars all over again.
So the war wasn’t over for Americans either.
And I’ve gone around this country, speaking
to many kinds of American audiences.
I’ve met many Americans of the generation
of the war, whether they were soldiers or
antiwar protesters or just people observing
on TV.
And for many of these people, the war remains
a defining moment of their generation.
And for them, the war hasn’t ended either.
So, a lot of my work is not just about the
Vietnam War, but about situating the Vietnam
War in a much longer history of warfare, whether
it’s from the Vietnamese perspective or
from the American perspective, where I see
the Vietnam War as just being an episode in
a long history of American intervention overseas—Philippines,
Korea, Japan, China, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam.
And Iraq and Afghanistan and the rest of what’s
happening in the Middle East are really extensions
of these policies.
AMY GOODMAN: You talk about immigrants being
more reassuring than refugees.
And you say, “refugees are the zombies of
the world, the undead who rise from dying
states to march or swim toward our borders
in endless waves.
An estimated 60 million such stateless people
exist, 1 in every 122 people alive today.
If they formed their own country, it would
be the world’s 24th largest—bigger than
South Africa, Spain, Iraq or Canada.”
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Bigger than France, too,
to put it in another perspective.
And I call them “the zombies of the world”
because I think many people don’t think
of refugees as human, and they’re not really
oftentimes depicted as human in media reports.
Again, we just see images of refugees suffering
on boats, dying and so on.
And of course it’s important to show these
kinds of images in order to elicit pity and
sympathy and maybe try to change policy, but
it also reinforces this idea that refugees
are somehow less than us, when in reality
refugees are people who are just like us until
these calamitous situations displace them.
And Americans, I think, in particular, have
a hard time imagining empathy for refugees,
because we just can’t imagine that we might
be a country that produces refugees—except
we have Puerto Rico, except we have Hurricane
Katrina.
But we isolate those, and we forget about
those, and we don’t think of those issues—those
people as being refugees.
AMY GOODMAN: You wrote an eloquent piece right
after Donald Trump was elected president,
that went viral.
Talk about your concerns at the time, well
over a year ago, and what you feel now.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Well, I think that for
many people like me, we were stunned and shocked
and in a state of crisis, as we tried to figure
out what this election of Donald Trump meant.
And it was at one time, you know, a call for
mobilization and resistance.
But, for me, it was also a time to think about
what it is that the Trump presidency represents.
And, for me, it’s impossible to think about
that without thinking about President Obama.
Many people, Americans, are stunned by President
Trump, and asking, “How can this happen?”
Well, it’s not a surprise.
You know, Trump represents American instincts
that have been with us since the founding
of this country.
You know, this is a country founded on slavery
and on genocide.
That’s a part of the American character.
That’s a part of American history.
Many of us would want to deny it or forget
it.
And President Trump brings this to the foreground,
because he’s basically the president of
a new, emergent kind of white identity politics
that’s always been with us, except it never
called itself white.
It simply called itself American, right?
But President Obama has a role to play in
this, because these are the two facets of
the American character: Obama and inclusion,
on the one hand, Trump and exclusion, on the
other.
They’ve always been with us.
Now, the issue is that if we get wrapped up
in a domestic discussion about Obama versus
Trump, we forget that President Obama himself
also tends to represent some of the worst
instincts of the American character overseas,
in terms of the continuing exertion of American
imperial power.
And having a president that is as nice and
as articulate and as intelligent as President
Obama didn’t really change these kinds of
American imperial policies.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, at home, to his
own shock, some of his closest immigrant rights
allies ended up calling him the “deporter-in-chief.”
He deported millions and millions and millions
of immigrants to this country.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: President Clinton, President
Obama, despite their rhetoric and despite
their praise of certain kinds of inclusionary
attitudes towards refugees and immigrants
and minorities and women and so on, yes, they
were responsible for various kinds of policies
that had negative impacts on minority populations
and on immigrant and refugee populations.
And those of us who consider ourselves to
be progressives and on the side of greater
social equality, greater inclusion, really
have to hold everyone responsible, regardless
of their party affiliations.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Ariel Dorfman, you also
wrote a piece after Donald Trump was elected
president.
“Now, America, You Know How Chileans Felt.”
We’re going to talk about that in a minute.
AMY GOODMAN: Ludwing van Beethoven’s “Ode
to Joy,” this one performed by the London
Symphony Orchestra.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
We are joined by two remarkable refugees.
Ariel Dorfman, best-selling author, playwright,
poet, activist, new book is Darwin’s Ghosts,
a novel, before that, a book of essays, Homeland
Security Ate My Speech: Messages from the
End of the World.
And we’re joined by Viet Thanh Nguyen, the
Pulitzer Prize-winning author of The Sympathizer,
now has written a book called The Displaced:
Refugee Writers on Refugee Lives.
So, “Ode to Joy” was carefully chosen
for you, Ariel.
ARIEL DORFMAN: I know.
I was very moved by that.
This is the song that we would sing in the
streets of Santiago, when we would say, “We
dream of a different world.”
And people would sing this literally as the
tear bombs fell—the gas fell on us, the
batons, where they’d beat us up.
They put us in jail.
They exiled us.
They did terrible things to us.
And people of Chile—
AMY GOODMAN: You’re talking about that other
September 11th, 1973.
ARIEL DORFMAN: No, I’m talking about the
fact that during 17 years after September
11th, 1973, very slowly, the Chilean people
organized, took over the streets, took over
the country, and finally got rid of the dictator
in a nonviolent revolution.
We defeated Pinochet.
Pinochet also defeated us, because the neoliberal
policies continued on and on and on and on.
And his legacy is always there, so memory
is very important to me in that sense, as
well.
But this is the hymn that people would sing
in the streets of Santiago as they were being
beaten by the police, saying, “We dream
of a world where someday we will all be brothers,
we will all be sisters,” right?
So it moves me enormously.
It took me a while for me not to—not to
sort of let tears—I’m very sentimental
about these things.
AMY GOODMAN: You have related—after the
election of Trump, you related it to the CIA-backed
coup that took out the democratically elected
government of Salvador Allende back in 1973.
Explain.
ARIEL DORFMAN: Right.
Well, I mean, what I said in that New York
Times piece was, basically, “You know, America,
you are now, legitimately, speaking about
how the Russians intervened in your elections,
right?
But it turns out that this is policy of the
United States, has been intervening in elections
everywhere, including democratic Chile, where
they helped to overthrow the government by
using some of the exact same tactics, except,
of course, there was no social media, right?”
But the CIA used very, very similar methods
of trying to intervene and to change the way
in which people voted, thought, dreamt, worked,
acted.
So I’m saying, “You know, America, one
of the things that this is a great opportunity
for you to ask yourselves—well, you don’t
like the Russians intervening in your elections.
Maybe it’s time for you to stop intervening
in other people’s elections.”
And also—I didn’t even mention that there—I
mean, you know, Russia was invaded by the
United States after the revolution of 1918.
U.S. troops were on Russian soil, fighting
along with the British, the French, just about
everybody else, to try to destroy that revolution,
which, in great measure, is one of the reasons
why the Russian revolution turned so sanguinary
itself—
AMY GOODMAN: Which means?
ARIEL DORFMAN: —as a reaction to that.
Meaning—no, meaning there was an enormous
amount of repression inside Russia itself
in order to save itself from this invasion.
I’m just saying, the important thing is
that this intervention of the Russians in
the U.S. election should not be only a case
of lamentation about, oh, how terrible this
is, oh.
You know, it doesn’t stop there.
You have to look inside the United States
and say, “OK, if it’s wrong for the Russians
to intervene in the U.S. election”—and
it’s certainly wrong—”it’s wrong for
any country to intervene in the sovereign
affairs of another nation.”
We should allow other nations to decide their
fate.
It’s very, very important for that to happen.
Then we should find out what our role, the
role of the United States, has been in overthrowing
Iran—I mean, everywhere that they’ve intervened.
In Iran, they got rid of Mosaddegh.
In Guatemala, the get rid of Árbenz, who
was a democratically elected president, and
it ended up, millions of Mayan Indians being
killed.
I could go on and on and on, on about this.
So, it’s very important that when we look
at these situations, we put them in the context
of things the United States has done, because
it would allow the people of the United States
to say, “You know what?
We don’t like what is being done to us.
We should stop doing it the same.”
Going back to my novel, again, if you don’t
like an indigenous person taking over your
face, you should face the fact of what has
been done to indigenous people all over the
world in your own name.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Ariel Dorfman.
His latest book is a novel.
It’s called Darwin’s Ghosts.
You know, I really do believe that our role
as journalists is to go to where the silence
is.
But, Viet, when we go there, it’s often
not silent, it’s very noisy.
It’s just that it doesn’t hit the corporate
media radar screen.
You have often talked about how you don’t
like the idea of, as a refugee writer, being
called the voice of the voiceless.
VIET THANH NGUYEN: Yeah, I think people mean
that as a compliment, but it’s not really
a compliment.
Number one, it’s very inaccurate, as you
say, you know?
Vietnamese people, for example, if you hang
out in any Vietnamese household or restaurant,
or go to Vietnam, we’re really, really loud.
And those of us who are writers are put in
a very—you know, writing about Vietnamese
people or any other minority population, are
put in a very difficult situation, because,
obviously, we just want to be writers, we
want to tell our stories, but the media, if
we become hot, will cast us as the voice for
the voiceless.
And I know that there have been voices for
the voiceless before me and that there will
be voices for the voiceless after me.
And all it really means is that the audience
just wants to hear one person speak for an
entire community.
They don’t want to hear the chorus of voices,
or the cacophony of voices, as the case might
be with Vietnamese people.
And true justice, when it comes to speech,
would be when we don’t have voiceless people,
not when we have more voices for the voiceless.
Having more voices for the voiceless is a
temporary measure, but achieving situations
