AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
In a Democracy Now!
special today, we spend the hour with the
world-renowned Chinese artist and activist
Ai Weiwei.
ArtReview magazine has called him the most
powerful artist in the world.
He’s also been called the most dangerous
man in China.
Ai Weiwei was born in 1957 in Beijing.
His mother was writer Gao Ying.
His father was the revered poet Ai Qing.
The year after Ai Weiwei was born, his father
was named an enemy of the people.
He and his family, including 1-year-old Ai
Weiwei, were sent to hard labor camp in the
Gobi Desert in remote northwest China.
Ai Weiwei spent the next 16 years of his life
growing up in hard labor camps, with harsh
living conditions and little formal education.
The family had only one book: a large French
encyclopedia.
At 19, Ai Weiwei and his family returned to
Beijing, and he enrolled in the Beijing Film
Academy to study animation.
There, he became part of a group of avant-garde
artists organizing against government control
of the arts—their slogan, “We demand political
democracy and artistic freedom.”
He was also a part of a small political movement
of students who produced posters calling for
reforms, and pasted them on them on a brick
wall that came to be known as the Democracy
Wall.
When the leader of that movement was sentenced
to 15 years in prison, Ai Weiwei decided to
move to New York City.
It was 1981.
Ai Weiwei spoke no English, had $30 in his
pocket.
He settled in the Lower East Side and befriended
Allen Ginsberg and other influential artists.
He briefly studied at the Parsons School of
Design, but dropped out after his professor
told him his drawings had no heart.
Instead, he held a string of odd jobs, working
in construction, cutting grass, cleaning houses,
babysitting, even winning money in Atlantic
City as a blackjack guru.
In 1993, Ai Weiwei returned to China because
his father was ill.
He founded a highly influential architecture
firm, named FAKE Design, and dedicated himself
to art and writing.
In 2008, after a massive earthquake in Sichuan,
China, Ai Weiwei launched a citizen investigation
to collect the names of the more than 5,000
schoolchildren who died, partially as a result
of the highly shoddy government construction
of the schools.
Ai Weiwei was highly critical of the government’s
response to the earthquake, saying, quote,
“They intimidate, they jail, they persecute
parents who demand the truth, and they brazenly
stomp on the constitution and the basic rights
of man,” unquote.
While his citizen investigation catapulted
him to international fame, it also enraged
Chinese government officials.
In 2009, his popular blog was shut down.
A few months later, police broke into his
hotel room and attacked him, punching him
in the face and causing cerebral hemorrhaging.
He had to have emergency brain surgery, which
he documented in his film So Sorry.
Then he launched his most famous installation
to date: a massive mosaic of 9,000 children’s
backpacks mounted on the exterior wall of
the German art museum Munich Haus der Kunst.
The backpacks spelled out in Chinese characters
the words of one mother whose child was killed
in the earthquake: quote, “She lived happily
on this earth for seven years,” unquote.
In 2010, Ai Weiwei was placed under house
arrest, after the Chinese government demolished
his studio.
Then, in 2011, he was arrested at the Beijing
airport and held for 81 days without any charges.
Chinese authorities seized his passport, refused
to return it until 2015.
Once that passport was returned, he moved
to Berlin, Germany.
He’s also faced constant surveillance, a
topic which he explored earlier this year
in his exhibition Hansel & Gretel, set in
New York’s Park Avenue Armory, in which
visitors are relentlessly tracked by cameras.
Among his other famous installations was his
2010 show Sunflower Seeds at the Tate Museum
in London, in which Ai Weiwei filled a hall
of the museum with more than 100 million hand-painted
porcelain sunflower seeds.
He currently has a solo exhibition at the
Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, D.C., called
Trace.
The exhibit features 176 portraits of activists
and free speech advocates made of Lego bricks.
He also has a major new exhibition opening
next week here in New York City in which he’s
erecting security fences and cages across
the boroughs, including under Washington Square
Arch and in Central Park near Trump Tower,
to explore the rise of nationalism and the
closure of borders worldwide.
It’s called Good Fences Make Good Neighbors.
AI WEIWEI: The fence can be between neighbors
to divide, to set up some kind of border.
It’s about territory, about dividing to
push the others away or to stop others from
crossing.
Generally, it reflects a misunderstanding
of humanity.
AMY GOODMAN: Ai Weiwei is also the director
of a major new documentary on the struggle,
the journey of refugees worldwide, called
Human Flow.
For the documentary, he traveled to 23 countries,
visiting dozens of refugee camps.
This is the trailer, which takes us to Iraq,
Jordan, Gaza, northern Greece and Kenya.
UNIDENTIFIED 1: Being a refugee is much more
than a political status.
It is the most pervasive kind of cruelty that
can be exercised against a human being.
You are forcibly robbing this human being
of all aspects that would make human life
not just tolerable but meaningful in many
ways.
UNIDENTIFIED 2: The more immune you are to
people’s suffering, that’s very, very
dangerous.
It’s critical for us to maintain this humanity.
CAPTION: Over 65 million people in the world
today have been forcibly displaced from their
homes.
REFUGEE 1: [translated] I’ve been roaming
endlessly with my son for 60 days now.
Nobody has shown us the way.
Where am I supposed to start my new life?
UNIDENTIFIED 3: If children grow up without
any hope, without any prospects for the future,
without any sense of them being able to make
something out of their lives, then they will
become very vulnerable to all sorts of exploitation,
including radicalization.
INTERVIEWER: [translated] Why are you here?
PALESTINIAN GIRL 1: [translated] We went for
a stroll.
PALESTINIAN GIRL 2: [translated] For fun.
It’s the only place to escape in the big
prison of Gaza.
UNIDENTIFIED 4: The officials came here and
told them, “Look, there’s no way you’re
going to get papers to continue.
Either you go voluntarily, or we arrest you.”
CAPTION: Witness the global journey of millions
of men, women and children filmed across 23
countries.
AI WEIWEI: I respect you.
REFUGEE 2: We have to respect you.
AI WEIWEI: I respect your passport, and I
respect you.
UNIDENTIFIED 5: It’s going to be a big challenge
to recognize that the world is shrinking,
and people from different religions, different
cultures are going to have to learn to live
with each other.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s the trailer for the
new documentary Human Flow.
It’s directed by Ai Weiwei, the internationally
renowned Chinese artist.
He’ll be back with us live after break.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Just Climb the Wall,” sung
and written by Ai Weiwei.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
The United Nations says there are now more
refugees worldwide than at any time since
World War II.
The journey and struggle of these 65 million
refugees is the subject of Chinese artist
and dissident Ai Weiwei’s epic new documentary
called Human Flow.
For the documentary, Ai Weiwei traveled to
23 countries, dozens of refugee camps.
He joins us now in our New York studio, yes,
the world-renowned Chinese artist, dissident,
activist Ai Weiwei.
He has received so many awards, including
the 2015 Ambassador of Conscience Award from
Amnesty International, the 2012 Václav Havel
Prize for Creative Dissent from the Human
Rights Foundation.
He’s now the Einstein visiting professor
at the Berlin University of the Arts, also
director and producer of this new documentary
that’s opening around the country, Human
Flow.
Ai Weiwei, it’s an honor to have you here.
AI WEIWEI: Thank you.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about why you decided to
make this epic film that took you across the
world.
You, a man, who have, yourself, been internally
displaced in China, had to leave China.
Talk about your life and how it intertwines
with this story in the film.
AI WEIWEI: Well, 2015, I had got my passport
back, so I can start to travel.
I went to Germany.
And in Germany, you’re facing the reality
about 1.2 million refugees come to the land.
So it makes me wonder: Who are they?
And I decided to go to Greece.
And the last was to really look at those people
and how they get on the land.
So, in there, I met the first boat—
AMY GOODMAN: You went to Lesbos, in Greece?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, Lesbos, in Greece.
So, on the shore, I met the first boat approaching
the shore.
And, you know, I see those people—women,
children and old people.
Some are crying—you know, it’s just an
unthinkable situation—climbing down this
little boat.
And then another boat, another boat.
You know, sometimes you have 30, 40 boats
a day.
And so, it made me really wonder and have
a curiosity about what is really going on
in the world today.
So I decided to move my studio to Lesbos.
And, you know, we have 20, 30 people there,
start filming.
And eventually, we have to go to the other
side, Turkey, and to go to the Middle East,
and then go to Asia and Africa, to make this
film.
It’s a very big film.
It takes us about one year to finish.
We visited about 23 nations, 40 camps, and
interviewed about 600 people, and has 900
hours of footage.
AMY GOODMAN: So, you went to the Middle East,
as well.
Where did you go?
AI WEIWEI: We went to, first, Jordan, Lebanon
and Israel, Gaza.
Then our team also go to Iraq, Afghanistan,
Pakistan.
You know, all those places.
AMY GOODMAN: What did you find in Gaza?
AI WEIWEI: Gaza is a situation not people
being pushed away from home, but being put
in like a big jail.
You know, millions of people stays in—basically
in this—their border, and they cannot leave.
So, the situation is extremely difficult.
They only have very little resources, and
many people survive only from the help from
the United Nations.
And the water, polluted.
Electricity, only given a few hours a day.
So, it’s an extremely difficult situation.
AMY GOODMAN: And where did you go in Israel?
AI WEIWEI: Israel, I’ve been Jerusalem,
Tel Aviv and West Bank, you know, Palestine
area.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to a clip from
Human Flow, your new documentary.
This is Dr. Cem Terzi from the Association
of Bridging Peoples.
He works with Syrian refugees in Turkey.
DR.
CEM TERZI: There is nothing in this agreement
in favor of refugees.
Turkish law system only allowed them under
the temporary protection.
It means they have no international rights
here.
One day, the government decides, “I will
send them back.”
The government can do this, because they are
not defined as a refugee.
No international rights for them.
They need a social integration program, job
permits.
They need jobs.
They need a standard income and to buy food
or to pay their rent.
The children need to go to school.
Majority of them, last five years, didn’t
go to school even one day.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s Dr. Cem Terzi from
the Association of Bridging Peoples, who works
with Syrian refugees.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Tell us more about him and what
you found there.
AI WEIWEI: The doctors were in tears.
And they have been a major force to helping
the refugees in Turkey.
And recently, he has been fired, and with
12 other professors, because a year ago they
signed some peace treaty.
So, many, many—even those doctors whose—his
own life is threatened in Turkey.
And their team really did a lot of work for
helping refugees and, you know, to take medical
care for them.
