AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report, I’m Amy Goodman.
And I'm Nermeen Shaikh. Welcome to our listeners and viewers around the country and around the world.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: A showdown is brewing in Washington
as the White House prepares to release a controversial
Republican memo despite opposition from the
FBI, the Justice Department and Democratic
lawmakers.
The four-page memo, written by House Intelligence
Committee chair, Republican Congressmember
[Devin] Nunes of California, purports to show
that the FBI abused its power when it began
surveilling Trump campaign adviser Carter
Page in 2016 due to his dealings with Russia.
Supporters of President Trump claim the memo
offers proof that the FBI’s investigation
was tainted by politics from the start, in
part because the FBI won approval of the wiretap
by citing a dossier funded by supporters of
Hillary Clinton.
The memo is expected to lay blame on the actions
of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein,
the same man who is the only official with
the authority to fire special prosecutor Robert
Mueller.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, on Wednesday, the FBI,
which is led by Trump appointee Christopher
Wray, issued an unusual statement, fiercely
critical of the imminent release of the memo,
saying, quote, “[W]e have grave concerns
about material omissions of fact that fundamentally
impact the memo’s accuracy.”
Then, on Wednesday, at night, the ranking
Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee,
Adam Schiff, claimed Nunes had made, quote,
“material changes” to the secret memo
before sending it to the president.
This comes as the White House appears to be
preparing to release the memo.
On Tuesday night, President Trump was caught
on mic at the State of the Union speaking
with South Carolina Republican Congressman
Jeff Duncan.
REP.
JEFF DUNCAN: Let’s release the memo.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Oh, yeah.
Oh, don’t worry, 100 percent.
Can you imagine that?
REP.
JEFF DUNCAN: Oh, yes, sir!
AMY GOODMAN: Duncan asked if he was releasing
the memo, and President Trump said, “100
percent.”
NERMEEN SHAIKH: This is not the first time
House Intelligence Chair [Devin] Nunes has
been at the center of a controversy.
In April, he supposedly recused himself from
an investigation into Russia’s alleged ties
to Trump associates and Russia’s role in
the 2016 U.S. election, after he illegally
made classified information public.
This came after The New York Times revealed
White House officials had met secretly with
Nunes to show him classified U.S. intelligence
reports detailing how Trump associates were
incidentally swept up in surveillance carried
out by American spy agencies as they conducted
foreign surveillance.
Nunes later walked back his recusal.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re joined now by Marcy Wheeler.
She’s an independent journalist who covers
national security and civil liberties, running
the website EmptyWheel.net.
We’re speaking to her in Lansing, Michigan.
Marcy, explain exactly what this memo is.
This is a firestorm in Washington, pitting
Trump’s own appointee, the head of the FBI,
against Trump himself.
MARCY WHEELER: So, the memo purports to be
a review of FISA, they claim, abuses, primarily
focused on a FISA warrant targeted at Carter
Page, who at one point was a foreign policy
adviser of the Trump campaign, although the
FISA warrant was not approved until he was
off the campaign, which is just one of the
ways we already know that this memo is misleading,
because it didn’t target the campaign.
It targeted somebody the campaign got rid
of because of his ties with Russia.
So, that’s the first thing.
And it does—it focuses—it is—reportedly
emphasizes the fact that the Christopher Steele
dossier, which was—that part of the dossier,
an opposition research dossier, was paid for
by the DNC and Hillary Clinton’s campaign.
And it complains that that dossier was one
of the things used to get the FISA warrant
against Carter Page.
We can assume that it therefore downplays
other things that we already know about, for
example, that Carter Page, in 2013, was being
recruited by Russians.
And FBI kind of kept tracking him in the interim
period because they were worried about his
ties with the Russians.
We assume that there are a number of other
sources for the FISA application.
And again, those are all going to be downplayed
in the four-page memo.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, Marcy Wheeler, can you
explain a little more why the Republicans
and Trump want this memo released?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, they want to find an
excuse to fire Rod Rosenstein.
But even there, there’s a problem.
Rod Rosenstein—there are actually conflicting
reports about when the last of these applications
was submitted.
It was either March or April.
New York Times has reported that it was April,
after Rod Rosenstein became deputy attorney
general on April 26th.
But if that’s the case, regardless of which
it is, it means that two applications using
the dossier had already been approved by the
FISA court, one of which came after the dossier
was made public.
So, either Rod Rosenstein, all he did was
sign the last application that had already
gone through approval processes in March,
right when he came in as deputy attorney general,
or he wasn’t involved at all.
But they are searching for some excuse, such
that they’ll be able to remove Rosenstein,
and therefore get to Mueller.
AMY GOODMAN: And explain exactly what that
last part is, why they want to get rid of
Rod Rosenstein and how that will get them
to Mueller.
MARCY WHEELER: So, the only way you can remove
Mueller is if his supervisor finds him—not
the only way, but the only way that isn’t
going to cause a huge firestorm is if his
supervisor finds Mueller to have conducted
unethical acts or engaged in improper activities.
Rosenstein is his supervisor, because Jeff
Sessions is recused.
And so, you need to, A, remove Rosenstein,
and then put in somebody who would be willing
to fire Mueller.
People talk about the EPA director.
No one thinks, for example, that the third
in command at DOJ, Rachel Brand, would do
it.
So, you know, you’ve got to, A, remove Rod
Rosenstein, and then, B, put in some partisan
hack who would be willing to fire somebody
who, by all appearances, is just engaging
in a typical investigation.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And why, Marcy, do the Democrats
not want this memo released?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, they argue two things.
One, that it’s misleading.
As I laid out, it’s not going—it’s going
to misrepresent Rod Rosenstein’s involvement.
It’s going to downplay the fact that this
application—that applications against Carter
Page were approved on at least two occasions
before Rod Rosenstein got involved.
It’s going to downplay the degree to which
Carter Page was already off the Trump campaign.
It’s going to misrepresent how centrally
this dossier played in the application.
So that’s one reason the Democrats don’t
want it released.
Another reason they don’t want it released
is that they say that the memo itself exposes
sources and methods.
And so, normally, everybody on the House Intelligence
Committee kind of goes overboard protecting
sources and methods, protecting the secrets
that they learn in the course of their business.
And in this case, Nunes has thrown that all
out the window.
He’s using, by the way, to release it, a
kind of a legal measure that Congress has
available to them to release classified information.
It was discussed with the release of the torture
report.
It would have been appropriate to use it with
the torture report.
In this case, it’s probably not an appropriate
use of the law.
But it hasn’t been used.
It is not used, because normally when the
intelligence committees want to release something,
they go in a back-and-forth discussion with
the underlying—with the agencies, in this
case, FBI.
But FBI is also trying to protect—it’s
quite clear from what DOJ said last week—other
intelligence agency assets, so probably NSA
and CIA, and also foreign—information from
foreign partners.
So, there was a report last week where the
Dutch intelligence was making it quite clear
that they’re less and less comfortable sharing
intelligence with the Trump administration.
That’s one of the reasons you don’t release
underlying sources and methods, because then
we can’t partner with foreign partners,
as well.
There’s one other, I would say illegitimate,
reason not to release this memo.
And that is because FISA, the law that allows
the government to target people in the United
States as suspected spies rather than as suspected
criminals, it’s been in place for 40 years.
When it was passed, Congress envisioned that
sometimes defendants who were collected on,
using FISA warrants, would get to review the
underlying dossier, would get to review whether
the application was fair.
But no defendant in history has ever gotten
that review.
And Devin Nunes didn’t care about that until
Carter Page was targeted.
But it is something that I think Congress
should revisit—should have revisited, by
the way, in the 702 reauthorization that was
just passed a couple weeks ago.
But DOJ also doesn’t want this underlying
report to be released, because it’s going
to make it easier for defendants to see what
the—what DOJ uses when it’s targeting
people with FISA warrants, and they don’t
want that precedent.
But the precedent would be, I think, useful.
AMY GOODMAN: So, yesterday, Sarah Huckabee
Sanders, a fierce defender of President Trump,
the White House press spokesperson, said Trump
hadn’t—she didn’t believe, had read
the memo, that he said he’s going to release,
when he was caught off mic at the State of
the Union talking to a congressman.
And I wanted to ask you about the sort of
bigger issue here.
It seems like the tables are turned.
The Democrats, at least progressives, have
been fierce questioners of the FBI over the
decades and about the national security state
going—you know, overreaching, to say the
least.
Now all the tables are turned, and the Trump
administration is going against the FBI and
the Justice Department.
What do you make of this, in the long run,
whether this will limit the intelligence committees’
oversight of things and overreach of things?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, I wouldn’t go overboard
in saying the Democrats have always been critical
of the FBI.
I mean, it’s really important—
AMY GOODMAN: I meant to say progressives.
MARCY WHEELER: Progressives, that’s fair.
But, I mean, as I mentioned, it was just a
couple weeks ago when Congress passed the
Title VII reauthorization, another part of
FISA.
And all of the same people pushing to get
this memo out, starting with Devin Nunes,
Trey Gowdy, the entire Republican side on
the House Intelligence Committee, they all
pushed to have FISA reauthorized without any
reforms.
And down the road, I will point out that the
memo that they released doesn’t address
a FISA problem that probably did affect Carter
Page.
So, they don’t—they’re not paying attention
to FISA closely enough to talk about the thing
that probably did affect Carter Page badly.
They don’t care that, for example, the government
can collect Tor traffic, including entirely
domestic communications, and then weed out
which Americans aren’t engaged in crime,
and get rid of it, but keep the ones that
are engaged in eight enumerated crimes.
They don’t care that the FBI can access
communications collected under 702 warrantlessly,
without any kind of suspicion at all.
So, you know, these people who are pushing
for this memo to come clean—to come out
really do not care at all and do not—cannot
believe that the FBI is an abusive agency,
because if they did, they would not have reauthorized
this legislation.
This is exclusively about trying to invent
a reason to discredit the Mueller—the Mueller
investigation.
And, you know, will it affect oversight, going
forward?
I think one thing that has been made clear
with this whole fiasco is that the House Intelligence
Committee doesn’t work.
And great, I hope that Republicans will be
so embarrassed by the time this is done that
they cooperate with people—with good government
reformers, who have been saying for a long
time there are ways to improve the House Intelligence
Committee and make it functional, such that
Devin Nunes can’t take it hostage and turn
it into a mode of obstruction for the president.
AMY GOODMAN: You know, I meant to say progressive
activists, not even Democratic congressmembers,
when it came to being concerned about FBI
and intelligence and NSA overreach.
But you mentioned Trey Gowdy.
And yesterday, the Republican congressman
from South Carolina, a chair of the House
Oversight Committee, announced he is not going
to seek re-election.
He was instrumental in crafting the Nunes
memo.
Can you talk about the significance of him
leaving Congress, leader in the Benghazi investigation,
attacking Hillary Clinton, etc.?
MARCY WHEELER: Yeah, Trey Gowdy, when he’s
in front of a camera, is one of the most blustery
Republican partisans.
But you can tell, even, for example, from
the Carter Page transcript, his interview
with House Intelligence Committee, that behind
closed doors he actually is a competent prosecutor,
which is—you know, he’s got a background
in that.
And he can hammer Republican witnesses.
So, what’s interesting about Gowdy is that
he—the underlying materials—this is another
complaint the Democrats have.
The only people who have read the underlying
materials are Adam Schiff, four staffers—two
of Adam Schiff’s and two of Devin Nunes’s—and
Trey Gowdy.
It would have been Devin Nunes, but Devin
Nunes, probably because of the recusal you
talked about earlier, had Gowdy do it instead.
So, the only people who have actually looked
at the underlying materials include Trey Gowdy.
Now, he didn’t write the memo, Nunes’s
staffers did.
So there’s this game of telephone going
on already.
On Sunday, on one of the Sunday shows, Trey—I
think it was a Fox show—Trey Gowdy said,
“You know, this memo should come out.
It’s important.
But my side should not use it to undermine
the Mueller investigation.”
And the reason he gave is that what is not
being seen about the Mueller investigation
is there’s a whole counterintelligence side
to it.
There’s a whole side of it investigating
how the Russians tampered in our election.
And according to Gowdy, who has seen these
underlying documents, he thinks that’s an
important and legitimate investigation.
Now, we don’t know fully why he decided
not to run.
He did cite yesterday that he’s sick of
politics.
But what’s interesting is, yesterday morning,
he was still fundraising.
So, as of yesterday morning, he was still
planning on running.
There’s also reports that Don McGahn, who
is the White House counsel, who has been in
this sort of obstructive role for Trump, as
well, was discussing with Gowdy a position
on the Fourth Circuit as a circuit court judge,
which is something Gowdy has been interested
in the past, and Gowdy turned that down.
So, Gowdy, even though he is this fire-breathing
partisan hack—you know, you go back to the
Benghazi case—he seems to have seen something
in the underlying investigation that troubles
him, that his Republican partisan colleagues
are not paying attention to.
And so, Gowdy may surprise us, going forward.
But I do think that that is an interesting
development yesterday, that the one guy on
the House Intelligence Committee who’s actually
seen the underlying intelligence has decided
to get out of the Republican partisan hackery
rat race.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, Marcy Wheeler, we
just have 30 seconds, but the whole issue
of whether Mueller will be interviewing President
Trump, and President Trump saying he’s very
willing to testify under oath, and then his
lawyer walking that back—but the significance
of this?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, people should remember
that Trump is not going to be indicted for
obstruction.
He might be indicted—he might be named as
an unindicted co-conspirator.
But he’s not, I mean, like—he’s very
unlikely to be indicted for anything, because
he’s the sitting president.
But it is possible that, for example, Hope
Hicks—The New York Times had a report on
her possibly obstructing justice last night—she
could be indicted or forced into a plea deal
on obstruction, and Trump could be named in
that.
And I think that’s what’s really going
on.
His lawyers don’t want Trump to sit for
an interview, because he can’t tell the
truth for more than 10 minutes.
And I don’t blame them.
But that back-and-forth is going to go on
for some time and add pressure to the president,
I think.
AMY GOODMAN: Marcy Wheeler, we want to thank
you for being with us, independent journalist
covering national security and civil liberties,
running the website EmptyWheel.net.
We’ll link to your piece, your latest pieces,
and the latest one, “Byron York Confirms
That Many Names and Sources Implicated Carter
Page as an Agent of a Foreign Power.”
Speaking to us from Grand Rapids, Michigan.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, we go to Kabul, Afghanistan.
Stay with us.
