AMY GOODMAN: The White House says President
Trump has accepted an invitation to meet directly
with North Korea’s leader Kim Jong-un.
This is South Korea’s National Security
Adviser Chung Eui-yong speaking to reporters
Thursday night, in the dark, outside the White
House, near the portico, after briefing officials
on the recent talks between Seoul and Pyongyang.
CHUNG EUI-YONG: I expressed President Moon
Jae-in’s personal gratitude for President
Trump’s leadership.
I told President Trump that in our meeting,
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said he is
committed to denuclearization.
Kim pledged that North Korea will refrain
from any further nuclear or missile tests.
He understands that routine joint military
exercises between the Republic of Korea and
the United States must continue.
And he expressed his eagerness to meet President
Trump as soon as possible.
President Trump appreciated the briefing and
said he would meet Kim Jong-un, by May, to
achieve permanent denuclearization.
AMY GOODMAN: The South Korean official went
on to say the meeting would take place within
two months.
No sitting U.S. president has ever met with
a North Korean leader; Kim Jong-un has never
met another head of state from anywhere in
the world.
Thursday night’s announcement was a complete
surprise to many.
It came at a time when Trump has been beset
with escalating questions about his alleged
affair with adult film star Stormy Daniels,
including questions about whether a $130,000
payoff to her to be quiet, sent by Trump’s
personal lawyer only days before the election,
could have violated federal election law.
Thursday’s announcement of direct talks
even appeared to be a complete surprise within
the Trump White House.
Only hours earlier, Secretary of State Rex
Tillerson said talks were a long way away.
SECRETARY OF STATE REX TILLERSON: In terms
of direct talks with the United States—and
you asked negotiations, and we’re a long
ways from negotiations.
I think it’s—we just need to be very clear-eyed
and realistic about it.
I think the first step—and I’ve said this
before—is to have talks, have some kind
of talks, about talks, because I don’t know
yet, until we are able to meet, ourselves,
face to face with representatives of North
Korea, whether the conditions are right to
even begin thinking about negotiations.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Rex Tillerson speaking
Thursday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
This is Tillerson speaking today in Djibouti.
SECRETARY OF STATE REX TILLERSON: In terms
of the decision to engage, between President
Trump and Kim Jong-un, that’s a decision
the president took himself.
AMY GOODMAN: The potential talks between President
Trump and North Korean President Kim Jong-un
come after a delegation of South Korean officials
traveled to Pyongyang to meet with Kim Jong-un,
where he said he’d suspend nuclear weapons
testing in order to hold talks with the United
States.
In an op-ed for The New York Times, Victor
Cha, former National Security Council director
for Asia, wrote, “While the unpredictability
of a meeting between these two unconventional
leaders provides unique opportunities to end
the decades-old conflict, its failure could
also push the two countries to the brink of
war.”
Victor Cha had been under consideration for
U.S. ambassador to South Korea until the Trump
administration dropped him when Cha criticized
the idea of a preemptive strike on North Korea.
For more, we go to Washington, D.C., to speak
with Tim Shorrock, correspondent for The Nation
and the Korea Center for Investigative Journalism
in Seoul.
Tim, welcome back to Democracy Now!
What did you think when you heard this announcement
last night?
TIM SHORROCK: Thank you.
I was, frankly, elated.
And I was kind of expecting this.
And I’m going to take a moment here of personal
privilege to say I’ve been on this show
for 10 years talking about the need for the
United States to talk directly to North Korea
to resolve this crisis and bring an end to
the Korean War.
And I feel very vindicated today that this
has happened—against the wishes of the media,
the think tanks here, who have been down on
this idea and who have criticized it and are
still criticizing it as we speak.
They cannot deal with the fact that the two
Koreas have come to an agreement to reach
a peace accord in the Koreas and end this
state of war between the United States and
North Korea.
And I think it’s a very, very important
day, and we should be very gratified for the
work of President Moon Jae-in.
A year ago, I interviewed President Moon Jae-in.
I was the only American reporter to talk to
him during his presidential campaign last
May.
And he told me, you know, in—
AMY GOODMAN: The South Korean president now.
TIM SHORROCK: The South Korean president,
who was elected in May.
And Mr. Moon told me that, you know, in reference
to the criticism from people in Washington
that he would divide the U.S. and South Korea
by pushing for peace engagement with North
Korea, he said, “Well, in my view, if we
can resolve the situation between North and
South Korea and resolve the tensions between
North Korea and the United States, that would
be good for the United States, and that would
be good for President Trump.”
And his gamble was correct.
He took it, and it worked.
And we now have the situation where Moon has
helped negotiate a move toward talks that
are going to lead to a conclusion to this
crisis.
And I think it’s a really terrific day for
Korea and for peace in the world.
AMY GOODMAN: So, if you can talk about the
tick-tock of this yesterday that we’ve come
to understand?
You have the South Korean officials apparently
in the White House, not there speaking to
President Trump, but to other people in the
White House, to report on the meeting they
just had with President Kim of North Korea
in Pyongyang.
Trump hears that they are around, and asks
to speak to them.
And it’s after that that he what?
This is according to The New York Times, pokes
his head into the pressroom to give reporters
the heads-up about what’s about to happen.
And then it was the South Korean officials
who walked outside into the night, under the
portico, the national security adviser of
South Korea, and made this announcement.
TIM SHORROCK: Well, the significance is that
when President Moon took office last May,
he said South Korea should be in the driver’s
seat of the Korea peace initiative and in
engagement with North Korea.
South Korea should be in the driver’s seat.
And he has remained there, and he has stayed
there.
He made offers last year to North Korea to
meet.
They rejected it.
They didn’t respond for over a year, as
they kept going on their nuclear and missile
program to defend themselves against what
they believe is a threat from the United States.
And finally, on January 1st, Kim Jong-un said
he would send a high-level delegation to the
Olympics and would engage with talks with
South Korea.
And this is a result of the South Korean initiative.
And so, you know, the fact that Trump may
have poked his head in there and may have
heard about the meeting, briefing, at the
last minute, shows that South Korea is in
fact in the driver’s seat.
And I think that’s very important.
And, you know, the United States has been
supporting these initiatives, despite the
fact that Vice President Pence went to the
Olympics and completely ignored the North
Koreans behind him and was very rude to his
Korean hosts.
They know that these talks have been going
on.
And so, I think we really need to focus on
the role that South Korea has played and the
historical—you know, the history of North-South
engagement and talks.
AMY GOODMAN: So, where do you expect—they’re
saying that this summit will take place in
May.
Where do you expect it will take place?
Might President Trump go to North Korea, South
Korea?
The six-party talks were held in China.
They have not said anything at this point
whether they would do this and host this.
TIM SHORROCK: That’s anybody’s guess.
I mean, I’d be surprised, frankly, if Trump
did go to Pyongyang, but that’s a possibility.
It might be in a city, you know, close to
there, such as Beijing, even a city in Russia
in that part of the Pacific area.
It could be anywhere.
But I think the fact that Trump is willing
to meet with Kim Jong-un shows that the United
States understands that only through direct
negotiations and talks can this situation
be resolved.
And I think it’s important to look at the
concessions that North Korea made.
After all, one of the big issues they have
had for years has been these U.S.-South Korean
military exercises that take place twice a
year, which I’ve talked about quite a lot
on this show, you know, in which they’ve
practiced, over the years, things like, you
know, decapitation of the leadership of North
Korea and assassination and regime change.
Well, North Korea agreed to these talks and
said they would suspend their nuclear tests
and their missile tests while any talks went
forward, but they would also—they will also
not object to U.S.-South Korean military exercises,
if they were scaled down.
And, in fact, they’ve been scaled down.
There’s a story this morning in the South
Korean press that the U.S. aircraft carriers
and submarines that normally take part in
these exercises, that are going to begin in
late March, will not take part.
And so, I think there’s been—over the
last few months and weeks, there actually
has been, you know, behind-the-scenes talks
between the United States and North Korea
on sort of the terms of this agreement.
And they’ve been in very close touch with
Moon Jae-in and his government.
AMY GOODMAN: So, what do you think, Tim, about
the comment of Victor Cha?
Very significant, he was being considered
for U.S. ambassador to South Korea, right?
And they drop him because he’s concerned
about a preemptive strike, the U.S. preemptively
striking North Korea.
When he says, “While the unpredictability
of a meeting between these two unconventional
leaders provides unique opportunities to end
the decades-old conflict, its failure could
also push the two countries to the brink of
war,” do you think that’s just too pessimistic?
TIM SHORROCK: I think it’s way too pessimistic,
and I think it’s a little ridiculous, frankly.
I mean, you know, he was cut out of the situation.
He was not named ambassador.
So I think he’s a little bit bitter about
that.
But to say this is going to bring on war,
when we were on the verge of war, I think
is pretty silly.
AMY GOODMAN: So talk about what’s at stake
then right now, what you think North Korea
wants.
They’re talking about no more nuclear testing
until this summit, if it’s happening.
And they’re allowing these U.S.-South Korea
military exercises to take place.
What does the U.S. want out of it, South Korea
want out of it, and North Korea?
And are we looking at the reunification of
the Korean Peninsula?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, unification is a long
way off, but I think this is a first step
in it.
First there has to be peace.
I think, you know, what the United States
wants is the denuclearization of North Korea
and the denuclearization of Korea.
They’ve made that very clear.
But that was not possible as a condition for
talking, and North Korea made that very clear.
What North Korea has wanted, and has been
saying for years, actually, is an end to what
they call the U.S. hostile policy toward them,
an end to nuclear threats against them, nuclear
war threats against them, an end to these
massive exercises where they actually practice
regime change, and an end to the sanctions,
that are definitely hurting the North Korean
economy.
North Korea wants normal relations with the
United States and has been wanting that for
years.
I think its objective is to have a peace treaty.
Remember, the Korean War ended only in an
armistice.
And there’s a necessity to end this war
through a peace treaty.
And if you have a peace treaty, there’s
no need to shoot nukes at anybody, at the
United—for them to threaten the United States
with nuclear weapons, and vice versa.
So, I think, you know, North Korea wants peace,
so it can do something economically for its
people.
The United States wants, you know, denuclearization.
And I think South Korea, obviously, wants
peace and wants to move toward more further
engagement and going back to the policies
of Kim Dae-jung in the past, of the Sunshine
Policies, when there was cultural and sports
and intellectual, academic exchanges, and
they built, you know, strong ties between
North and South Korea during that time, during
that Sunshine era.
AMY GOODMAN: Tim, is it too cynical to say,
“Look at what happened with DACA, with President
Trump’s complete reversal.
Look at what happened just on gun control,
where he was suggesting the most comprehensive
gun control legislation and then completely
reversed”?
Is it too cynical to say right now the news
cycle was completely dominated by this hush
money paid to a woman, Stormy Daniels, who
alleges that Trump had an affair with her,
and they wanted to silence her right before
the election, and the money paid to her is
clear—what Trump’s involvement is, we’ll
see—that he wanted to stop this news cycle?
It was enveloping everything.
Of course, this stops it.
It is stunning.
It is historic.
But that he will then just simply reverse?
TIM SHORROCK: Well, you know, Trump is totally
unpredictable.
That’s for sure.
But, no, I think it is too cynical to say
that, yes.
I think, you know, these negotiations have
been going on for weeks now.
I mean, Kim Jong-un made his overture on January
1.
Moon Jae-in accepted almost instantly.
And talks began right after that.
The North sent the highest delegation ever
to go to South Korea since the Korean War
during the Pyeongchang Olympics.
And they met and discussed for hours, you
know, the possibilities of negotiation, the
possibilities of moving forward on engagement.
And so, you know, the timing is just coincidental
that it happens to coincide with this other
scandal that’s hitting Trump.
I think that this has been going on for weeks,
and, you know, this is the fruition of it.
They met with—they met in Pyongyang, and
they had this totally unprecedented meeting
at the Workers’ Party headquarters in North
Korea.
No South Korean had ever gone there.
And no leader had ever been—no leaders of
South Korea had ever been invited there.
And they met with Kim Jong-un and his highest-ranking
leaders, and they had long discussions.
And they came back, and, you know, Moon said,
“Before anything happens, we’re going
to come brief the United States.”
And they carried this letter, apparently from
Kim Jong-un to Trump, inviting him to meet.
And, you know, that’s what happened.
I think, you know, that whatever happened
in—happening with Trump is just a coincidence.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think next December 10th
we may see North Korean leader Kim Jong-un,
President Donald Trump and President Moon
receiving the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo, Norway?
TIM SHORROCK: I certainly think President
Moon would deserve it.
That’s for sure.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we’ll continue to cover
this, of course.
This is a historic development.
Tim Shorrock, thanks so much for being with
us, investigative journalist based in Washington,
D.C.
His book, Spies for Hire: The Secret World
of Outsourced Intelligence.
Grew up in Tokyo and Seoul and has been writing
about the U.S. role in Korea since the ’70s,
a correspondent for The Nation and the Korea
Center for Investigative Journalism in Seoul.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, the EPA chief, Scott Pruitt,
has announced he’s rolling back regulations
on coal ash, the chemicals around the coal
plants in this country, as a new government
report comes out that talks about mercury
and arsenic and lead contamination around
these plants.
We’ll go to Alabama and to Puerto Rico to
find out the latest.
Stay with us.
AMY GOODMAN: “Us” by Ruby Ibarra, released
yesterday in celebration of International
Women’s Day.
