AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
As we spend the rest of the hour discussing
what our next guest calls the “apocalyptic
twins: nuclear and climate threats.”
This week, NBC News reported President Trump
called for a nearly tenfold increase in the
U.S. nuclear weapons arsenal during a meeting
with high-ranking military leaders.
It was after this that Secretary of State
Rex Tillerson reportedly called Trump a “moron.”
On Wednesday, Trump lashed out at NBC on Twitter,
suggested NBC’s broadcast license should
be revoked as punishment for its reporting.
Today, Trump is slated to announce the U.S.
will decertify the landmark 2015 Iran nuclear
deal, although it appears Trump has now backed
away from his plans to withdraw the U.S. from
the deal entirely.
Instead, the White House is expected to instruct
Congress to leave the agreement intact, for
now, after he came under enormous domestic
and international pressure not to unravel
the landmark deal.
In the last week, Trump has also repeated
threats of war against North Korea, tweeting,
quote, “Presidents and their administrations
have been talking to North Korea for 25 years,
agreements made and massive amounts of money
paid...... …hasn’t worked, agreements
violated before the ink was dry, making fools
of U.S. negotiators.
Sorry, but only one thing will work!” he
tweeted.
In brief comments to reporters Saturday, Trump
was asked to clarify that remark, as well
as a cryptic comment he made last week during
a meeting with top generals in which he warned
about “the calm before the storm.”
REPORTER: Can you clarify your “calm before
the storm” comment?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Nothing—nothing
to clarify.
REPORTER: What is the “one thing” that
will work regarding North Korea?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Well, you’ll figure
that out pretty soon.
AMY GOODMAN: “You’ll figure that out pretty
soon,” he said, when asked about “the
calm before the storm,” what it was.
Meanwhile, the U.S. is struggling to recover
from a series of hurricanes, and now wildfires,
that climate scientists have linked to climate
change.
The 10th hurricane this year, Ophelia, has
just been named.
There have not been 10 hurricanes in one season
since 1893.
Well, our next guest wonders if the storms
have contributed to what he calls a shift
in our awareness of climate truths.
On Thursday, Democracy Now!'s Nermeen Shaikh
and I sat down with Robert Jay Lifton, leading
American psychiatrist, author of more than
20 books about the effects of nuclear war,
terrorism and genocide.
His new book is titled The Climate Swerve:
Reflections on Mind, Hope, and Survival.
His past books, Death in Life: Survivors of
Hiroshima, for which he received the National
Book Award; The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing
and the Psychology of Genocide; and Witness
to an Extreme Century: A Memoir.
Dr. Lifton is also a distinguished professor
emeritus of psychology and psychiatry at the
City University of New York.
I began by asking him to talk about what is
now happening between the U.S. and North Korea,
and Iran, and President Trump's closest aides
expressing concern that Trump is unraveling.
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: I also belong to a group
called the Duty to Warn, which is a group
of psychiatrists and psychologists who feel
we have the right and the obligation to speak
out about Trump’s psyche when it endangers
the country and the world.
And what we’re seeing—you mentioned the
potential unraveling of the pact with Iran.
There’s also the potential unraveling of
Donald Trump, which seems to be occurring.
It’s hard to read him, because his behavior,
as I understand it, is completely solipsistic.
He sees the world through his own sense of
self, what he needs and what he feels.
And he couldn’t be more erratic or scattered
or dangerous.
So, the exchange with North Korea has to be
terrifying to all of us.
It’s not something that can be controlled.
You have two leaders who are bent on hyperbole
and intense threat to the other and have their
own motivations, each of which is hard for
us to read.
But we can read the danger that they represent,
particularly since we’ve learned recently
that Trump is on record for demanding something
like 10 times the number of nuclear weapons.
And that’s what I call extreme nuclearism,
a kind of embrace of the weapons to do everything
that they can’t do.
The only thing nuclear weapons can do is destroy
countries, cities, destroy human beings.
But since they came into being, there has
been an impulse to embrace them and see them
as saviors, that prevent war, keep the world
going, maintain authority on the part of the
nuclear weapons-possessing nations.
So Trump is into that extreme nuclearism.
And at the same time, as you mentioned, with
the other apocalyptic twin, the terrible and
very real threat of climate change, global
warming, he and his followers are blocking
every reasonable effect that was put forward
at Paris in 2015 and which the world—through
which the world seeks to confront what may
be the gravest danger it’s ever faced.
That’s where we are.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: To go back to what you said
initially, the group that you’re a part
of, the psychiatric group, you’re a contributor
to a book called The Dangerous Case of Donald
Trump.
What are some of the key concerns about Trump
that you and your colleagues raise?
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: Well, I wrote a letter,
together with Judith Herman, to The New York
Times, in which we raised two issues.
One was his relation to reality, which is,
I would say, solipsistic and untenable and
very dangerous to everyone.
AMY GOODMAN: What do you mean, “solipsistic”?
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: Solipsistic, from within
the self.
In other words, he only sees the world from
within his sense of self.
He can’t have empathy for others.
He can’t really think into the future the
consequences of his actions, because he’s
totally preoccupied with the immediate event
and how he can deal with it or manipulate
it as emerging through the perception on the
part of his sense of self.
That’s very extreme.
People who are psychotic behave that way.
And yet, for the most part, Trump is not psychotic.
That combination makes him really dangerous.
So that relationship to reality is one thing.
And the other thing that Judith Herman and
I wrote about was his difficulty with crises
and his extreme behavior and attack mode,
instead of any kind of—any kind of a balance,
which a president needs to deal with a crisis.
So those were two.
And in this regard, I write about what we
call malignant normality.
So, he’s the president.
A president takes actions.
There’s a tendency to normalize them, because,
after all, he is the president, he’s in
charge, when what is called normality is completely
malignant and harmful.
And I came to that idea through work on Nazi
doctors.
They were expected to reverse healing and
killing, and really take the lead in killing
in Auschwitz.
I’m not accusing any Americans of being
Nazi doctors.
I’m saying that this is a model of malignant
normality, and we now face it with Trump and
his administration.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask you about your
group Duty to Warn.
Vanity Fair has a piece where Steve Bannon,
the disgraced White House aide, said he told
President Trump that his concern should be
the 25th Amendment—not being impeached,
but the Cabinet voting him out.
He says something like Trump has a 30 percent
chance of making it through his term.
You are a psychiatrist.
Can you talk further about what it would take,
if it wasn’t an impeachable crime, for—to
remove President Trump, why you believe he
is a danger right now?
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: It’s unclear whether
or how Trump will be removed from or resign
from the presidency before the completion
of his term.
One doesn’t know that.
It will probably, in my judgment, be a political
rather than a psychological act.
I mean, one could take the 25th Amendment,
and his Cabinet and vice president could attest
to his unfitness for being president.
That doesn’t—
AMY GOODMAN: But the Cabinet are his appointees.
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: Yeah, it doesn’t seem
very likely, does it?
But rather, what’s happening now is that
there’s a dialogue between this psychological-psychiatric
group and congresspeople in which they—we
are bringing information about Trump’s unfitness,
which becomes part of the political dialogue.
It will probably be—
AMY GOODMAN: Are you talking to congressmembers?
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: Yes, yes, people from this
group are talking to congresspeople.
And it will probably be a political decision
that removes Trump.
And that means an election process and the
issue of whether you get a Democratic House
or Senate, and other political issues that
will become very important.
But this is now part of the dialogue.
Everybody knew that Trump was bizarre, strange,
was unreliable, unfit to be president.
It’s been known by the hypocritical Republicans
for a very long time.
But putting it forward by psychologists and
psychiatrists gives it a certain greater authority
and becomes part of that dialogue and recognition.
That’s the way that I see it, rather than
a clear-cut removal through the 25th Amendment.
Though one doesn’t know, because there’s
more and more evidence about Trump’s campaign’s
collusion in Russia and potentially about
obstruction of justice, and all these could
play a part.
He could attempt to fire Mueller, as he’s
threatened to do, and that could bring about
a constitutional crisis.
So, we don’t know.
We can’t predict what process will occur.
The psychological now is in dialogue with
the political.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to read to you The New
York Times editorial on Thursday, “One Finger
on the Button is Too Few.”
And they write, “The broad debate over President
Trump’s fitness for the difficult and demanding
office he holds has recently been reframed
in a more pointed and urgent way: Does he
understand, and can he responsibly manage,
the most destructive nuclear arsenal on earth?
“The question arises for several reasons.
He has threatened to 'totally destroy' North
Korea.
He has reportedly pressed for a massive buildup
in the American nuclear arsenal, which already
contains too many—4,000—warheads.
And soon he will decide whether to sustain
or set a course to possibly unravel the immensely
important Iran nuclear deal.”
It goes on to cite Corker, who said he’s
leading to World War III, and Rex Tillerson,
who reportedly called him a “moron.”
And he says—and the Times goes on to say,
“Mr. Trump’s policy pronouncements during
the campaign betrayed either profound ignorance
or dangerous nonchalance: At one point he
wondered why America had nuclear weapons if
it didn’t use them; at another he suggested
that Japan and South Korea, which have long
lived under the American security umbrella,
should develop their own nuclear weapons.
But nothing he said has been quite as unsettling
as his recent tweetstorms about North Korea,
… 'fire and fury' … 'the calm before the
storm.'”
And so, they are saying—they’re calling
for—”Many have hoped, and still hope,
… Trump’s aggressive posture is mostly
theater, designed to slake his thirst for
attention, keep adversaries off guard … But
there is no underlying strategy to his loose
talk, and whatever he means by it, Congress
has been sufficiently alarmed to consider
legislation that would bar the president from
launching a first nuclear strike without a
declaration of war by Congress.
It wouldn’t take away the president’s
ability to defend the country.”
They say, “That’s a sound idea, and could
be made stronger with a requirement that the
secretaries of defense and state also approve
any such decision.
As things stand now, the Atomic Energy Act
of 1946, passed when there was more concern
about trigger-happy generals than elected
civilian leaders, gives the president sole
control.
He could unleash the apocalyptic force of
the American nuclear arsenal by his word alone,
and within minutes.”
ROBERT JAY LIFTON: Well, any restriction on
the president—any president, but especially
Trump—on his capacity to initiate a nuclear
war, any restriction on that is profoundly
desirable.
It’s a strange world, to say the least,
when the generals are there to restrain the
civilian.
The generals aren’t, on the whole, known
for their military restraint.
There are exceptions.
With the Vietnam War, as you know, it was
initiated by civilians, “the best and the
brightest,” as it was called.
The military was at first a little reluctant,
then entered it and became corrupted by it,
and created what I came to call atrocity-producing
situations.
That could happen here, too, with the generals,
who are ostensibly restrainers, allowing him,
being unable to prevent him from initiating
some form of war, being themselves drawn in
and then corrupted by it.
That’s a really dangerous sequence.
Anything that holds that back or
in 
check
is desirable.
