AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report
I’m Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I’m Juan Gonzalez. Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers around the country and
around the world.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: We begin today’s show with
the ongoing war in Syria.Tensions across northern
Syria are escalating sharply amidst a series
of clashes between external and internal powers,
including Israel, Iran, Turkey, Russia and
the Syrian government.
On Saturday, Israel shot down what it says
was an Iranian drone that had entered Israel’s
airspace after being launched from Syria.
Israel then mounted an attack on an Iranian
command center in Syria, from where the drone
was launched.
One of the Israeli F-16 military jets was
then downed by a Syrian government anti-aircraft
missile.
Saturday’s event marks the first Israeli
jet shot down since the 1980s.
It is also believed to be the first time Israel
has carried out an attack in Syria on a site
where Iranian troops were present.
On Tuesday, the Syrian government warned Israel
it would face “more surprises” if it launches
future attacks inside Syria.
Meanwhile, also in northern Syria on Saturday,
a Turkish Army helicopter was shot down by
U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters near
the Syrian Kurdish city of Afrin, where Turkey
has launched a bombing and ground offensive.
All this comes as the United Nations is warning
of soaring levels of civilian casualties in
Syria.
This is U.N. high commissioner for human rights
spokesperson Elizabeth Throssell.
ELIZABETH THROSSELL: This has been a week
of soaring violence and bloodshed in Syria—more
than a thousand civilian casualties in six
days.
We’ve received reports that at least 277
civilians have been killed; 230 of these people
were killed in airstrikes by the Syrian government
and their allies.
In addition, 812 people were injured.
AMY GOODMAN: The United Nations is warning
civilians are being killed and wounded at
a rapid pace amidst an escalation in the Syrian
government bombing against the rebel-held
enclave of Eastern Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus.
At least 200 civilians have reportedly been
killed in the last week alone.
Well, for more, we’re joined by two guests.
Anne Barnard is The New York Times bureau
chief in Beirut, Lebanon, her recent articles
headlined “Israel Strikes Iran in Syria
and Loses a Jet” and “It’s Hard to Believe,
But Syria’s War Is Getting Even Worse.”
In Kuwait, we’re joined by the Syrian-Candadian
researcher Yazan al-Saadi.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Anne, let’s begin with you.
Your article, “It’s Hard to Believe, But
Syria’s War Is Getting Even Worse,” you
begin by saying, “Half a dozen newborns,
blinking and arching their backs, were carried
from a burning hospital hit by airstrikes.
A bombed apartment house collapsed, burying
families.
Medics doused patients with water after a
suspected chlorine attack, one of five in
Syria since the start of the year.
That was just a fraction of the violence this
week in northern Syria,” you write.
So, first let’s talk about what you found
on the ground—you were just recently there
[sic]—and then this global set of countries
that continue to pummel Syria.
ANNE BARNARD: Well, thank you so much, first
of all, for being interested in this subject.
That’s very important that it continues
to be talked about.
I have to correct one thing, which is that
I was not in Syria since about one year ago.
And the reason for that is I’m constantly
applying for visas, but the Syrian government
does not—it’s quite unpredictable and
quite restrictive about when it grants visas
to foreign journalists.
And once you’re there, you can’t operate
entirely freely anyway.
So, just to know, we have covered the recent
events from here in Beirut and through a very
extensive network of contacts on all sides
inside Syria.
But, yes, it’s been an unbelievable week.
And the thing that you really need to know
to put this in even more perspective is that,
yes, there’s been a spike in deaths and
in civilian casualties.
There was a period of—I think just from
last week, from Monday to Friday, there were
230 people killed, civilians, mostly civilians,
and a thousand casualties.
So, that’s a lot, but, actually, over the
last—most of the last seven years, there’s
all—those kinds of death tolls are happening
all the time, maybe at a slower pace, but
in these places, civilians are under attack
constantly, and hospitals are under attack.
And, you know, there’s very difficult problems
in getting humanitarian aid access.
And it’s happening in many places in Syria,
by many sides.
But the Syrian government’s attempts to
take back rebel-held areas have been particularly
characterized lately by an intensified bombing
campaign that has taken a very heavy toll
on civilians, who are already tired, malnourished,
maybe displaced already several times.
Some of them are stuck behind siege boundaries.
So, it’s really been a tough week.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Anne, most of the media
attention in the United States have focused
on the war against ISIS, and once the declaration
that ISIS—the ISIS—or most of the ISIS
enclaves had been defeated, the attention
has largely dropped from the U.S. media.
What has happened—since the so-called defeat
of ISIS, how has the war in Syria transformed?
ANNE BARNARD: Well, you’re exactly right.
The U.S. focus has tended to be on ISIS within
a framework of the so-called war on terror.
But the war in Syria did not begin with ISIS
and is not going to end with ISIS.
First of all, I think it’s probably a mistaken
“mission accomplished” moment to claim
that ISIS has actually been defeated, because
many fighters have gone underground, and their
ideology, of course, is continuing to assert
itself in some places.
But since then, what the relative defeat of
ISIS has unleashed is the ability of the Syrian
government and its allies—Russia and Iran—to
turn their attention fully back to fighting
the rebels, who have already been on the run.
And it’s very complicated, because there
are different patches of areas around the
country that are not connected to each other,
that are controlled by different rebel groups,
Islamist groups, some Qaeda-linked groups.
These are not even contiguous patches of territory.
So you’re talking about many wars within
a war.
But what’s happened is that now the government
is able to focus on those battles.
And, you know, in a sense, the rest of the
world cares less about that than they cared
about ISIS, because they saw ISIS as a threat
to themselves.
AMY GOODMAN: So, the beginning of this conversation,
we talked about just what happened among the
major countries that are bombing Syria—again,
Israel shooting down what it says is an Iranian
drone, then attacking what it called the command-and-control
center in Syria for the drone.
Then one of the Israeli F-16 military jets
were downed by the Syrian government anti-aircraft
missile.
Saturday’s event marking the first Israeli
jet shot down since the 1980s, also believed
to be the first time Israel carried out an
attack in Syria on a site where Iranian troops
were present.
Can you talk about the significance of all
of this?
ANNE BARNARD: Yes.
This brings us to the second consequence of
the end of the main part of the territorial
fight against Islamic State.
Many different international powers, as well
as the Syrian government and some of its rival—some
of its opponents within Syria, were all against
each other, in a way, but united against the
Islamic State.
And they launched competing campaigns to defeat
the Islamic State, racing one another to take
its territory.
Once Islamic State was largely driven out
of territory in Syria, those different combatants
are finding that their conflicting interests
are coming to the fore again.
So, you see now Turkey going against Syrian
Kurdish groups.
You see even clashes—even confrontations
between Turkey and the United States over
the United States’ backing for Kurds, Kurdish
militias that Turkey sees as terrorists and
that the United States sees as its best ally
in Syria.
There’s a big question—the United States
has upset both allies and enemies by saying
that it wants to now remain in the areas that
were taken by the U.S.-backed militias in
the northeast of Syria.
Israel has been bombing targets in Syria throughout
the war, with relative impunity.
This is the first time that the Syrian government
has managed to shoot down a jet.
You also have Syria’s allies—Russia and
Iran—which have differing views about how
exactly the future of Syria should be laid
out.
And I’m probably forgetting to mention somebody,
but all of these—I fear that we may be getting
to a phase in the Syrian war where all the
foreign interveners are turning it into an
arena to fight amongst each other, really
regardless of what Syrians want or the effect
on Syrians.
And, unfortunately, that could go on for a
long time.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to go to break,
then come back to this discussion, where we’ll
also be joined, in addition to Anne Barnard,
The New York Times bureau chief in Beirut,
Lebanon, by Yazan al-Saadi, the Syrian-Canadian
researcher.
This is Democracy Now!
Back with them in a moment.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Uncle John” by Pearls Before
Swine.
The band’s founder, Tom Rapp, died on Sunday
at the age of 70.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, we return now to Syria.
The United Nations is warning that civilians
are being killed and wounded at a rapid pace
amidst an escalation in the Syrian government
bombing against the rebel-held enclave of
Eastern Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus.
At least 200 civilians have been reportedly
killed in the last week alone.
We’re joined now by Yazan al-Saadi, a Syrian-Canadian
writer, researcher.
And still with us is Anne Barnard, from The
New York Times, bureau chief in Beirut, Lebanon.
Her recent article is titled “It’s Hard
to Believe, But Syria’s War Is Getting Even
Worse.”
Anne, I wanted to begin again with you to
ask you about the role of Hezbollah, because,
obviously, Hezbollah was widely involved in
the fighting in Syria, has undoubtedly grown
stronger as a result.
And could you talk about its role, particularly,
in the conflict, and the concerns of Israel
over the growth of Hezbollah?
ANNE BARNARD: Well, Hezbollah 
entered the war overtly and in a sort of—in
the manner of an expeditionary force in 2013.
And that was a big surprise, because this
is a group that was founded to fight Israeli
occupation of the south of Lebanon, not to
go and help put down uprisings in other countries.
But nonetheless, because of their close alliance
with Damascus and Tehran, Hezbollah entered
the war, first in areas that made sense, in
a way, for it in a local—in a local sense,
because they first focused on areas near the
Lebanese border, on the shrine of Sayyidah
Zaynab near Damascus, which is particularly
revered by Shiites.
But gradually their role expanded.
They were a much more effective pound-for-pound
force than the Syrian military, and they ended
up helping out in battles steadily spreading
across the country.
Nobody imagined a few years ago that Hezbollah
would end up fighting in Aleppo, near the
Iraqi border, in northern Syria, all the way
in southern Syria.
Now, the southern Syria part is the biggest
issue, because, of course, there’s always
been conflict between Hezbollah and Israel,
and tensions there across the Lebanese border,
but now Hezbollah is entrenching itself increasingly
in areas in the southern part of Syria, bordering
the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, the portion
that’s held by the Israelis.
So, that’s obviously of big concern to Israel.
At the same time, the Syrian government accuses
Israel of trying to increase its own buffer
zone there, and that’s been a real flashpoint.
And that really exploded on Saturday, not
as badly as it could have been, though, because
it seems to have been contained, for now,
to this one incident.
There is also, of course, an Iranian presence
around.
Iranian advisers are deeply involved throughout
the war effort on the Syrian government side.
So, that’s something that Israel has been
trying to counter throughout the conflict,
and I think we’re only going to see more
tensions around that.
AMY GOODMAN: Yazan al-Saadi, we want to bring
you into this conversation.
You’re a Syrian-Canadian researcher, usually
where Anne is, in Beirut, Lebanon, but right
now we’re talking to you in Kuwait.
Talk about the situation in Syria, in your
country, as you see it.
YAZAN AL-SAADI: Wow!
All right.
It’s absolutely tragic.
And it’s—what you’re seeing is all these
actors, whether it’s the Syrian regime,
the Bashar dictatorship or the armed opposition,
or the Putin regime and the Trump regime and
the apartheid Zionist regime, all attacking
and destroying the Syrian population.
What we’re seeing is basically a complete
annihilation of the struggle for Syrian self-determination
by various communities within the country.
You’re seeing a complete devastation of
a society.
The healthcare system is gone.
Half the population are either refugees or
amputees.
And it’s absolutely devastating.
And what we’re witnessing in Syria—and
we need to remember this, as well—is that
we’re witnessing the failure of the international
mechanisms to hold states accountable.
And this is not only exceptional to Syria.
We’ve seen this before in places like Iraq,
Palestine, Congo, the Central African Republic,
and even in Myanmar now with the Rohingya.
So, if you want a sound bite, what we’re
seeing is the typicalness of power over people.
And this is something that is going to continue
in various places, whether in Syria or elsewhere,
as long as governments and states are allowed
to do what they can do.
And this can only end if populations and communities
around the world start mobilizing and pressuring
their own governments to stop these types
of actions, to not allow power to dominate
over people.
And if we don’t do that, we’re just going
to see the tragedy of Syria continue for a
long time, and you’re going to see other
tragedies in other places around the world.
That is what’s happening.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Yazan, I wanted to ask you
about the role of Bashar al-Assad.
Many of the Western powers were originally
calling for regime change to end the civil
war, and now that’s dropped off the table
for a lot of them, in terms of the ongoing
conflict.
Could you talk about that, as well?
YAZAN AL-SAADI: Yeah, of course.
I’m not surprised it dropped off the table,
because, let’s be honest, Western governments
really don’t care about, you know, dictatorships.
In fact, they’re quite a fan.
There’s a lot of businesses and interests
with dictatorships.
And let’s be honest.
When these protests happened—and they happened
in a context—in 2011, in the region, where
you had a large mobilization in different
countries, by different people, to pressure
change against dictatorships.
But Western governments don’t really care.
And let’s be—let’s be frank about this.
They don’t really care if Bashar stays or
not, as long as he plays ball and fits into
their interests.
Now, should Bashar go?
Yes, obviously.
He’s a dictatorship.
But it cannot happen through the idea of Western
intervention or Western forms of regime change,
because we’ve seen what happened in Libya
and Iraq.
So we need to do something else here.
There needs to be an international form of
mechanism to hold dictatorships accountable,
whoever they are, you know, whether they’re
allies to the West or they’re allies to
Putin.
And this is something—this is a larger question
that we really need to talk about.
AMY GOODMAN: The escalation in Syria comes
as the Pentagon has also indicated it plans
to recruit and train thousands of U.S.-backed
Kurdish fighters in Syria to form a border
security force in northern Syria along the
border with Turkey.
The U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish fighters already
control large swaths of northern Syria.
The significance of this?
We talked, Yazan, earlier about what just
happened in the last week.
You know, you have the Israeli plane shot
down, the Turkish plane shot down, etc.
YAZAN AL-SAADI: So, I mean, this U.S. plan,
like all U.S. plans, is going to be disastrous.
I mean, it’s all part of, you know, really
furthering U.S. military interests and a presence
in certain countries around the world.
This support for the SDF, which is the armed
wing of the PYD, is really not going to be
helpful, ultimately, for Kurdish self-determination,
in my opinion.
And I do believe that the Kurds have every
right for self-determination, like every community
around the world.
What the U.S. are interested is just to have
a hand in the geography.
But ultimately, like we’ve seen over and
over again in history every time the U.S.
has a certain plan of backing armed groups,
it’s disastrous, whether it’s the Contras
in Latin America, the armed groups in Iraq
and wherever else.
It’s going to be a disaster.
And we’re seeing bits of that happening
right now, with everyone shooting everyone.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’d like to go back to Anne
Barnard for a second, The New York Times bureau
chief in Beirut.
All of these governments—all of these foreign
governments having their forces and their
planes in Syria, could you talk about whether
the potential is increasing or decreasing
for some kind of a conflict between the outside
powers spreading beyond Syria?
ANNE BARNARD: Well, that’s certainly the
danger.
I mean, and just to build on what Yazan was
saying, the reason that the international
community, such as it is, has not been able
to come to any consensus is the deadlocked
Security Council.
So, we start from a situation in which Russia
and the United States are completely deadlocked,
even on issues that seem as basic as human
rights.
They can’t agree on anything.
And so, now they’re each backing a side
in Syria which sees itself as fighting an
existential battle.
At the same time, this is also very much,
for Russia, about restoring its great power
status and countering the U.S. in a keystone
area of the Middle East.
Russia has interests with its port on the
Mediterranean Sea, in Tartus, in the western
coast of Syria.
So, Russia has a lot of interests there.
Russia has clearly put more skin in the game
than the United States has.
And at the same time, the United States has
now extended its commitment, perhaps indefinitely,
in northeastern Syria, where most of Syria’s
oil is.
So, the problem is that even though there
is a deconfliction process, which is supposed
to prevent their sort of competing air forces
from clashing with each other by accident
or having any small incident that could escalate,
you know, mistakes happen.
And even—there’s even a mysterious incident,
where more information is still unfolding
about it, from last week, when U.S. forces
hit a pro-government force, which was initially
described to us by a Syrian government source
as a pro-government Syrian Shiite militia,
but now it’s coming out that many, maybe
scores of, Russian contractors were killed.
So, the Kremlin is saying, “We don’t know
anything about these people.
They’re military contractors.
They don’t work for us.”
This is the Russian version of Blackwater,
this company.
And so, the idea that there are, you know,
large numbers of Russian troops going around
Syria, working for who knows who, in the same
arena where American troops are, is obviously
very risky.
And, you know, that’s not to mention that
Turkey, as I mentioned before, and the United
States have even—at least Turkey has even
threatened to attack an area where U.S. troops
are there on the ground with the Kurdish militias
that Turkey wants to fight.
So you have the prospect of two NATO allies,
theoretically, it’s possible, that they
could clash.
And you have the Israeli-Iran-Hezbollah-Syria
nexus that we talked about before.
So, it’s getting more and more dangerous.
And, you know, in a world where collective
action seems to be impossible, it seems that
everybody bet on the idea that Syria was containable,
and, you know, we could just let people die
and let it stay within the borders of Syria,
and some countries even consider that to be
within their interests.
They felt that, you know, their enemies were
killing each other.
Well, as we can see, instead we have a massive
refugee crisis affecting Europe, a much more
massive refugee crisis affecting Syria’s
neighbors—Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan—and
now we have the possibility of hot war between
major state powers coming out of this.
So, you know, it seems like it’s going to
get more dangerous before it calms down.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to Secretary of
State Rex Tillerson speaking January 17th
at the Hoover Institution, in which he called
Iran a “strategic threat” to the United
States and used this alleged threat as justification
for keeping U.S. troops in Syria.
SECRETARY OF STATE REX TILLERSON: Continued
threats to the U.S., from not just ISIS and
al-Qaeda, but from others, persist.
And this threat I’m referring to is principally
Iran.
As part of its strategy to create a northern
arch, stretching from Iran to Lebanon and
the Mediterranean, Iran has dramatically strengthened
its presence in Syria by deploying Iranian
Revolutionary Guard troops, supporting Lebanese
Hezbollah and importing proxy forces from
Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and elsewhere.
Through its position in Syria, Iran is positioning
to continue attacking U.S. interests, our
allies and personnel in the region.
It is spending billions of dollars a year
to prop up Assad and wage proxy wars at the
expense of supporting its own people.
…
U.S. disengagement from Syria would provide
Iran the opportunity to further strengthen
its position in Syria.
As we have seen from Iran’s proxy wars and
public announcements, Iran seeks dominance
in the Middle East and the destruction of
our ally, Israel.
As a destabilized nation and one bordering
Israel, Syria presents an opportunity that
Iran is all too eager to exploit.
AMY GOODMAN: Yazan al-Saadi, if you can respond
to the U.S. secretary of state?
YAZAN AL-SAADI: Well, there’s much to respond.
I mean, it’s—well, it’s funny.
The first thought that comes to mind is that,
yeah, well, the U.S. is the strategic threat
to everyone in this world, especially for
self-determination of communities around the
world, so I find his comments quite hilarious.
Secondly, let’s be honest.
There’s something that Anne said earlier
about the U.S. and Russia not agreeing in
the Security Council for basic human rights.
That’s not surprising, considering that
both countries are major violators of human
rights.
And really, they don’t take human rights
seriously.
Now, this concern by the U.S. about Iran is
typical, in terms of the mentality, the warmongering
mentality within the U.S. military-political
establishment, in terms of their own dominance
and their need to dominate the region.
At the same time, let’s also not ignore
that Iran is a dictatorship, it is a problematic
regime, just like every other regime in the
region, including the Syrian regime, the Zionist
regime and the Saudi regime and others.
So, we are all facing this major problem,
where we really need to ask ourselves, “What
can be done?
How can we accept the status quo?”
Because the status quo means that our bodies,
our communities are going to be paying the
price of the blood and devastation, while
politics and power reign supreme.
And me, personally, I don’t accept this,
and I feel that we need to mobilize, as various
communities, to push back against the politics
of power, whether it’s the U.S. or Putin
or the Iranian regime or the Syrian dictatorship
or the Israeli regime and whoever else.
That’s the core question here.
That’s the core debate.
It’s about self-determination.
And that’s something that we really need
to keep our eye on.
And that also means that we need to start
creating mechanisms of accountability that
forces these regimes to hold—you know, forces
these regimes to accept the power of people
and the rights of people beyond all.
AMY GOODMAN: Anne, you recently tweeted, “In
'13 much skepticism (I shared it) of bigger
US intervention in Syria—b/c Iraq debacle.
So US avoided steps to shield civilians (like
no-fly zone).
Yet 5 yrs on, what it hasn't avoided is indefinite
military commitment in huge chunk of Syria.”
If you could expand on that and talk about
where you are now, in Beirut, Lebanon?
What percentage of Lebanon is now Syrian refugees
who have come over the border, not to mention
Jordan and other places, and what this means?
ANNE BARNARD: Well, Lebanon is a country of
around 4 million people, and there are at
least one-and-a-half million Syrian refugees
here.
So, it’s more than a quarter of the population.
And, you know, that’s by far the largest
proportion of refugees on Earth.
So, Lebanon is bearing a huge brunt, and Turkey
and Jordan also have large numbers of refugees.
So, obviously, the region is bearing the brunt
more than anyone else.
And yeah, I think the U.S. policy, you know,
seems a case of neither having your cake nor
eating it.
They did not take a step, which, of course,
there’s a lot of reasons to be skeptical
about the idea of a U.S. intervention, but
at the same time it’s not as if they’re
not intervening, as Yazan said earlier.
They’re intervening in other ways, without
really having helped Syrian civilians a lot.
So, you know, and I think Yazan’s point
is very good, that—how can there be a mechanism?
I mean, if the great—the whole problem is
that the great powers—Russia and the United
States—and anyone in power, they don’t
want themselves to be held accountable, so
there is no incentive for those in power to
allow the creation of such a mechanism.
And look what happened when Syrian people
and people in many other countries in the
region tried to speak up and use people power
and ask for just some more rights or some
reforms in their countries.
Almost all of them were defeated by state
power in one way or another.
So, it’s really a puzzle.
I wonder, Yazan, if you have any, you know,
specific ideas about how things can go differently
for ordinary people who want to make their
voices heard.
I mean, you know, we’ve seen a lot of idealistic
people try, and, you know, you see the results.
YAZAN AL-SAADI: Of course.
ANNE BARNARD: So—
YAZAN AL-SAADI: Of course.
I mean, yeah.
ANNE BARNARD: I don’t know.
YAZAN AL-SAADI: I mean, people are trying,
and they’re still trying 'til this day,
and we should continue.
I mean, one of the most important things is
international solidarities, right?
Working between communities, whether it's
the Syrian community, working with communities
in the United States, for example—let’s
say the Black Lives Matter, because they are
facing injustices and tyranny of the state.
So I believe in creating ties like that.
I believe in creating ties between the BDS
movement in Palestine with other pro-rights
movements in Bahrain or in the Rohingya.
That’s the only way forward, because we’re
dealing with an international problem of domination
over our communities, wherever we are.
What is happening in Syria is a violent, physical
manifestation of that.
And it’s going to continue in other forms
in other places, as long as power is still
power.
You know?
AMY GOODMAN: Yazan—
YAZAN AL-SAADI: And I do think like, like
I said earlier, networking and international
solidarity, it’s the only way forward.
AMY GOODMAN: Yazan al-Saadi, we want to thank
you for being with us, Syrian-Canadian researcher,
usually in Beirut, Lebanon, now in Kuwait,
and Anne Barnard, The New York Times bureau
chief in Beirut, Lebanon.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
When we come back, we go to Austin, Texas.
As the budget is unveiled, we’re going to
look at a particular struggle that’s going
on around the country for paid sick leave—the
cities that are trying to initiate it and
the Koch brothers-backed group that’s fighting
it.
Stay with us.
