AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Today marks the 50th anniversary of the My
Lai massacre, when U.S. forces slaughtered
more than 500 Vietnamese women, children and
old men.
A group of Vietnam War veterans and peace
activists have traveled back to Vietnam to
mark today’s anniversary.
Democracy Now!’s Juan González and I recently
spoke to three members of the delegation that
are in Vietnam today: Vietnam veteran Paul
Cox, who later co-founded the Veterans for
Peace chapter in San Francisco; Susan Schnall,
former Navy nurse who was court-martialed
for opposing the Vietnam War; and longtime
activist Ron Carver, who has organized an
exhibit honoring the GI antiwar movement at
the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City.
I began by asking Ron Carver about what happened
50 years ago today in My Lai.
RON CARVER: Well, 504 civilians, noncombatants,
were mowed down by soldiers.
As you said, it was horrific, but it was not
an isolated incident.
It was part of the culture of the war that
had been created and fostered and was largely
a product of the Pentagon’s insistence on
high body counts in order to justify their
continued war effort and their continuing,
escalating insistence that the U.S. Congress
give them ever more money and ever more troops.
This is what led to these kind of massacres.
The significance to me, however, is of people
like Hugh Thompson, who, at great risk, landed
his helicopter, had his crew train their guns
on the soldiers who were committing this massacre,
and telling them that they had to stop or
they would be shot themselves.
And that’s part of what has led to the development
of this exhibit that will be held in Saigon—Ho
Chi Minh City, today it’s called—on the
19th of March, three days after the anniversary
of the My Lai massacre.
It’s called “Waging Peace: The U.S. Soldiers
and Veterans Who Opposed America’s War in
Vietnam.”
And it is to give credit and honor the folks
who took great risks to oppose the war.
Some of them went to jail in this country,
like Dr. Howard Levy, who refused to train
Green Beret troops in medical techniques.
There are people in this exhibit.
Honored are those who refused to deploy to
Vietnam, like JJ Johnson and the two others
who made the Fort Hood Three; people who went
to Vietnam, like Paul, but then, confronting
the horror of what they were doing, stopped
going out and engaging in combat; some of
them, like Bill Short, ended up being charged
with conspiracy to mutiny, because he refused
to engage anymore in combat and was sent to
the stockade in Vietnam; others who deserted.
And so, a lot of these folks will be on the
tour in March, from Hanoi to My Lai and then
to Saigon.
And the exhibit will have photographs of them,
information that they said, and feature the
underground papers that they produced, telling
other soldiers about what was going on, exposing
the horrors and the injustice of that war.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Paul Cox, you enlisted in
the military during the Vietnam War.
Can you talk about your personal experience,
why you decided to enlist, what you—what
the consciousness of the soldiers were?
PAUL COX: Yeah, I joined in 1968.
I had gotten my draft notice for a 2-year
draft enlistment in the Army, but I wound
up—I had no consciousness about the war,
that I—you know, against it or for it, but
I thought I had a duty to my country, so I
joined the Marine Corps for four years.
Not a deep thinker, but that’s what I did.
I spent 18 months in Vietnam, a tour and a
half.
Most of that time, I was up on the DMZ in
unpopulated areas fighting North Vietnamese
regulars, but with no contact with the Vietnamese
civilians.
But the last six months of my tour, I was
down in the rice paddies south and west of
Da Nang and got a much, much different view
of the war and saw how poorly, to put it mildly,
we were treating our so-called allies, the
South Vietnamese, whose hearts and minds we
were supposed to be winning.
And that’s not what we were doing at all.
We were operating in free-fire zones.
I was involved in a small massacre of about
15 people in May of—I’m sorry, April of
1970.
And that changed my entire view of the war.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about the massacre
you said you were involved with?
PAUL COX: We were running what the generals
called “pacification programs.”
Essentially, we would go out from our base,
and sometimes only for a few hours, and we
would sweep into a village and round up everybody
and put them on trucks or helicopters and
evacuate them to the strategic hamlets.
And we did that many times.
This particular incident, we had been out
for four days in old, abandoned rice paddies
that had been all overgrown in elephant grass.
And we stomped down the elephant grass, created
a company-size perimeter and just sat there
for four days, running a cloverleaf of patrols
to the—in each of the four directions, and
the same patrol each day on the same route,
which is not smart.
Eventually, on the fourth day, the squad that
was in charge—that was doing the northern
loop, somebody sniped at them.
Nobody got hit, but the squad, unwisely, decided
to sort of pursue the sniper.
They hadn’t gone far until they found a
booby trap, located it.
Somehow the thing went off, killed one man,
wounded three others.
And that was it.
That was the only action we had in those four
days.
The next day, we were going to pull up stakes,
and we were going to hike to a bridge, Liberty
Bridge, and be taken back to the base.
But to get to Liberty Bridge, we had to go
through a village.
The rest of that afternoon, before we left,
there was a Piper Cub flying over this village
with loudspeakers, yelling at them in Vietnamese,
presumably telling them they needed to evacuate,
because this was, after all, a free-fire zone.
The company commander—this was in Bravo
Company, 1st Battalion, 5th Marines—did
an unusual thing: He told our lieutenant he
wanted the squad that had lost the men the
day before to walk point.
And these guys were very angry, not just at
the—they should have been angry at themselves
for finding a booby trap and then being so
silly as to set it off, but they were angry
at the Vietnamese.
So they walked point.
And when they got into the village, they passed
the word back past my squad, “Are there
any friendlies in this area?”
The company commander responded, up the line,
“No, this is a free-fire zone.”
Immediately afterwards, there was some firing.
As I got to the first hut, there was an old
woman who had been—got shot, who was dying.
The second hut we went to, there was a pile
of six or eight people.
These were children and women and an old man.
In the third hut, there was another pile of
people who had been shot dead.
And then we just passed through the corner
of the village.
And when we got—everybody in the whole company
walked past the same scene that I did.
And when we got to the other side, the company
commander asked for volunteers to go back
in and search the rest of the village.
None of the officers volunteered.
I mean, there’s a chain of command.
I mean, he should have said, “Lieutenant,
take a squad,” or whatever.
But he asked for volunteers.
And so, a staff sergeant and some volunteers
decided to go back in.
There was a little bit more shooting.
Most of us were kind of in shock.
These people had been gunned down.
This was not a battle.
And none of us participated, in my squad,
in that.
So, the squad came back.
We left.
They called in airstrikes on the village,
which is not the way you’re supposed to
use tactical air.
A few days later, apparently, some of the
survivors of this massacre had carried the
body of a child and a woman to a nearby base
and filed a formal complaint.
There was an investigation.
Nothing happened.
Neither the guy—neither the men who pulled
the triggers on those folks were relieved
of duty.
The company commander who set the whole thing
up was not relieved of duty.
And life just went on.
But that turned my head about the war.
And I was not going to participate in that
any longer.
And I left Vietnam in August of ’70 very,
very angry at myself, at the Marine Corps,
at the American people, at the U.S. government,
and really determined that I was going to
do what I could to help end the war.
I still had two years left to do in the Marine
Corps, and so I was a bit of a latecomer to
the antiwar movement and the GI movement,
but I tried to make up for it by working very
hard.
We put out—I was stationed at Camp Lejeune
for the last two years of my tour.
And we put out an underground newspaper called
Rage—was not an example of high journalism,
but it was the best we could do, and we were
really working hard to tell the truth about
the Vietnam War and about militarism in this
country.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And what was the reaction
of the base commanders and the authorities
to your publication?
PAUL COX: Well, we were underground as best
we could be for a very long time.
I don’t even have a photograph of that period,
because we were afraid to take photographs
as evidence.
But the—I mean, I do have copies of the
newspaper we put out.
We used to distribute the newspaper in the
middle of the night.
We’d get 3,000 copies made, and bring them
onto base in a couple of cars.
And we would go through the barracks.
This is a—Camp Lejeune is an infantry base.
And we would just walk through the barracks
at 3 a.m. in the morning and drop off these
papers on people’s racks.
And after three or four or five of these,
suddenly we’d see MPs swarming towards where
we had been earlier, and we decided, “OK,
that’s enough for tonight,” and we would
leave.
It freaked them out.
It was not something that they were willing
to tolerate.
But we never got caught on base.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’d like to bring Susan
Schnall into the conversation.
Talk about your situation as a nurse and as
a lieutenant in the Navy.
What happened with you?
You were court-martialed?
SUSAN SCHNALL: Yes.
I went into the Navy to take care of the wounded,
to help them heal and to get back to their
families and to their communities.
As a part of the Navy, I saw what was going
on, and I heard stories from the guys who
came back.
I was stationed in Oak Knoll Naval Hospital
in Oakland, California, and took care of the
casualties and heard their stories.
I didn’t hear them in quite the same detail
that Paul has related, because at that time,
I think, the war was too fresh, and they didn’t
want to talk explicitly about what they had
seen.
But I heard their nightmares in the middle
of the night.
I heard them yelling and screaming and yelling
out to their buddies.
I saw some of the guys who had open wounds,
having their arms and their legs held up by
butcher-like contraptions, with infection
coming out.
And as I said, I heard them in the middle
of the night and heard some of the stories
that way.
I went in as a healer, and I felt at one point—and
it was after about a year in the military—that
I had become a part of the United States military,
and I had helped perpetuate the war in Vietnam.
And I just thought I had to live with myself
and speak out against the war.
I had heard about the United States dropping
flyers on Vietnam, on the Vietnamese, urging
them to go to protective hamlets to get away
from the spraying, which we now know was Agent
Orange, and to get out of harm’s way.
And I thought—again, we were going—we
were organizing a GI and Veterans March for
Peace in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we
had difficulty getting publicity out.
We posted flyers.
We handed—we put posters up, and they were
torn down on the base.
So, I thought, “If the United States can
drop these flyers on the people of another
country, why couldn’t we drop flyers on
military bases publicizing the GI and Veterans
March for Peace in the San Francisco Bay Area?”
I had a friend who was a pilot, and we rented
a single-engine plane and loaded it with flyers
announcing the demonstration.
We dropped them on Oak Knoll Naval Hospital,
where I was working; on Treasure Island; on
Yerba Buena Island; on the Presidio, the Army
base.
And then we flew in to the Alameda Naval Air
Station, because the USS Ranger was docked
there, and we dropped the flyers on the deck
of the aircraft carrier.
I wore my uniform, and I had a press conference
afterwards.
AMY GOODMAN: You were a Navy lieutenant.
SUSAN SCHNALL: I was lieutenant junior grade.
Yes, I was.
AMY GOODMAN: Were you afraid?
SUSAN SCHNALL: It was all—yes, yes.
I was concerned about what the military would
do to me.
But I looked at that in proportion to what
was going on with what we were doing with
young American soldiers and how we were sending
them in harm’s way to hurt and to kill and
destroy people from another country thousands
of miles away, and I thought about the terrible
destruction and damage being done to Vietnam.
And for me, it was an issue, as I said, of
living with myself and just saying, “I’m
in the military.
I stand against the war.
And there are many, many thousands of other
soldiers, sailors and marines who will stand
with me.”
So we dropped the flyers and had the press
conference.
I was issued this order to not wear my uniform
in a public demonstration, expressing my partisan
views publicly.
And I thought, “You know, General Westmoreland
goes in front of Congress asking for more
men and more armaments and more money to fight
this war.
Why can’t I wear my uniform as a member
of the military and stand up for peace?”
So I wore my uniform in the antiwar demonstration
and spoke out against the war.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And you were court-martialed.
And what happened?
SUSAN SCHNALL: That was six months later.
I actually worked full-time in the military,
had an Article 15, the captain’s mast, went
on to a full general court-martial, was tried
for two charges.
One was intent to destroy the morale of the
United States troops, and the other was disobeying
a general Navy regulation and conduct unbecoming
an officer.
I was given a sentence, six months’ forfeiture
of all pay and allowances, to be confined.
The trial counsel wanted five years’ confinement
and hard labor, and the court-martial board
gave me six months’ confinement and dismissal
from service.
AMY GOODMAN: And where were you confined to,
and what did you have to do there?
SUSAN SCHNALL: I actually was sent back to
full duty, because at that time the military
also had a regulation that said if a woman
received a sentence of under a year, she didn’t
necessarily have to serve it.
And since I received a sentence of six months,
which I think was deliberate—we had a lot
of publicity about the case—I was sent back
to the hospital to full duty and reported
and was then assigned to the women’s units
and the children’s unit.
And we put out an underground newspaper, but
handed it out from person to person on the
base.
AMY GOODMAN: Susan Schnall, former Navy nurse
who was court-martialed for dropping antiwar
pamphlets from a plane over U.S. military
bases around San Francisco Bay.
We’ll return to our conversation with her,
Paul Cox and Ron Carver, all three now in
Vietnam to mark the 50th anniversary of the
My Lai massacre.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “I-Feel-Like-I’m-Fixin’-to-Die
Rag” by Country Joe and the Fish, here on
Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
As we continue to mark the 50th anniversary
of the My Lai massacre, we return to our conversation
with three longtime peace activists who went
back to Vietnam to mark the anniversary: Vietnam
War veterans Paul Cox and Susan Schnall and
longtime organizer Ron Carver.
I asked Ron to talk about the GI coffeehouses,
which became a hotbed of GI resistance during
the Vietnam War.
RON CARVER: Civilians who were supportive
of the soldiers, in the effort to bring them
home alive, came up with the idea.
Started with Fred Gardner, who lives in Alameda,
California, who opened up the first coffeehouse,
called the UFO, in Columbia, South Carolina,
outside of Fort Jackson.
And his vision was to have a place in these
Army towns that were filled with exploitative
businesses trying to just fleece the soldiers—you
know, sleazy bars, jewelry stores, whorehouses.
And he had the idea of setting up nonprofit
coffeehouses where GIs could come, listen
to rock 'n' roll, watch movies about Vietnam
and talk with each other, where particularly
soldiers back from Vietnam, who were feeling
bitter and betrayed that the war wasn’t
what they had been told it was going to be,
and were resentful, they could come, they
could talk to the recruits who were not yet—had
not yet been sent to Vietnam.
But also, they could write their stories and
create these underground newspapers, that
we civilians would then take to have printed,
bring back to the coffeehouses thousands of
copies of these, which the soldiers would
then smuggle back onto the base, at great
risk to themselves, and therefore spread the
word.
In many ways, those coffee—those underground
papers were the equivalent of the social media
today.
They were a method where the soldiers who
knew the truth about the war in Vietnam could
pass that along in pretty close to real time.
They would also talk about the burgeoning
protests by soldiers at other bases, leading
peace marches, deserting, involved in acts
of sabotage and other efforts to end the war.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I want to turn to a clip from
the 2005 documentary Sir!
No Sir!
WALTER CRONKITE: A new phenomenon has cropped
up at several Army bases these days: a so-called
underground GI press, which consists largely
of antiwar newspapers.
Military authorities are clamping down hard
on the papers.
MONTAGE: Fort Knox, Kentucky, Fun, Travel
and Adventure; Fort Gordon, Georgia, The Last
Harass; Fort Lewis, Washington, Fed Up!; Fort
Benning, Georgia, Rap!; Chanute Air Force
Base, Four-Year Bummer; Fort Dix, New Jersey,
Shakedown; Fort Hood, Texas, Fatigue Press
is published by a group of radical soldiers
stationed at this Army base.
DAVID CLINE: And we used to distribute it
clandestinely on base.
We’d go around and leave bunches of them
in barracks, as we’d go through barracks
at night, and leave them in foot lockers.
If you were caught distributing literature
on base, that was a court-martial offense.
NARRATOR: Despite the military’s best efforts,
the underground press became the lifeblood
of the GI movement, as the Army’s own recruiting
slogan, “Fun, Travel and Adventure,” turned
into the popular GI expression, “F— the
Army.”
SOLDIER: There must have been close to 300
antiwar newspapers written, produced and published
on bases all throughout the world.
It was wherever there were GIs, American GIs
in the world.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: That was a clip from the 2005
documentary Sir!
No Sir!
Ron Carver, I wanted to ask you, because a
lot of attention is devoted—has been devoted
in studies and reminiscences of the antiwar
movement in Vietnam, but not as much to the
resistance within the military, of the soldiers
themselves, and to what degree that affected
the decision of the U.S. government that it
could no longer continue to pursue the war
in Vietnam.
I’m wondering your thoughts on the impact
of that GI resistance.
RON CARVER: Well, I mean, you can have my
thoughts, but the Army’s own internal studies
noted the breakdown in morale, the breakdown
in discipline, the large number of front-line
soldiers who were refusing to fight or would
go out but found ways not to engage with the
so-called enemy.
By 1968, every major antiwar march, peace
march, in the United States was led by active-duty
soldiers and veterans.
And by 1971, '72, it became clear that the
United States no longer had the capacity to
continue the ground war.
And that led to the Pentagon's decision to
move toward an air war that wasn’t dependent
on ground troops.
And then, soon after that, you began to see
sailors on the destroyers, the—I’m sorry,
the aircraft carriers, refusing to board or
beginning to sabotage their own ships.
And you saw Air Force, Navy pilots refusing
to continue going on bombing missions, not
enough to bring the war to a halt just yet—it
continued to ’75.
But clearly, the GI movement of active-duty
soldiers, backed up by veterans and then the
general peace movement, was a key factor—along,
of course, with the Vietnamese’ own incredible
spirit and determination to fight for the
liberation of their country.
But I believe, and a lot of historians now
are beginning to believe, that this movement
was a key factor in ending the war.
The problem is that today most people don’t
even know that there was a GI antiwar movement.
Surely, the Ken Burns and Novick film just
glossed over this as, they thought, an insignificant
part.
But it was a major reason that the U.S. had
to pull out.
AMY GOODMAN: Paul Cox, talk about how the
GI resistance materialized for you in Vietnam
while you were fighting.
What were you seeing around you?
How were you organizing?
PAUL COX: Well, I didn’t do a lot of organizing.
Basically, we were trying to stay alive.
We used to sandbag patrols.
That was a term we called for when we were
sent out on a patrol that might have 10 checkpoints,
and we would go out to checkpoint one and
sit there all day and then go to checkpoint
10, which was on the way back in, and then
come back in at the end of the day, not having
actually gone down the trails that we were
supposed to patrol.
A lot of people managed to get sick now and
then, and not go out into the field.
There were fraggings—not a lot of them,
but there were some of them that I knew about.
And in that last unit I was in, when we came
in from the field, they took all our grenades
away from us.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain why they would take the
grenades away and the whole issue of what
fragging is.
PAUL COX: There was a study done later by
the Army, and they admitted to 1,600 fraggings—that
is, attempts or actual murders of officers
or senior enlisted men by the lower-ranking
troops.
And it’s called a fragging because a common
tool of a murder of an officer would be to
throw a grenade under his rack, and so—a
fragmentation grenade.
So, whether they would shoot the man in a—during
a battle or shoot him in the middle of the
night or frag him, that was all the same thing.
And the Army admitted to 1,600 of those.
There was—I was aware of two of them in
my last period of time there.
So, they would—they got paranoid.
They didn’t trust the troops any longer,
and so they took our grenades away from us,
when we were in the rear.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: It’s reminiscent of what
we hear in Afghanistan of the supposed soldiers
allied with the U.S. troops turning on the
U.S. troops, that are supposedly their allies.
I want to turn to a clip of John Kerry speaking
in 1971.
At the time, Kerry was a member of Vietnam
Veterans Against the War.
He was testifying before the Senate in 1971,
when he discussed the atrocities unearthed
in the Winter Soldier investigation, where
over 150 veterans testified to war crimes
committed in Southeast Asia.
JOHN KERRY: They told the stories of times
that they had personally raped, cut off the
ears, cut off heads, taped wires from portable
telephones to human genitals and turned up
the power, cut off limbs, blown up bodies,
randomly shot at civilians, razed villages
in a fashion reminiscent of Genghis Khan,
shot cattle and dogs for fun, poisoned food
stocks and generally ravaged the countryside
of South Vietnam, in addition to the normal
ravage of war and the normal and very particular
ravaging which is done by the applied bombing
power of this country.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: That was John Kerry speaking
in 1971 to the United States Senate.
Paul Cox, I’m just wondering—he was a
member of the same GI resistance movement
against the war that you were a part of.
PAUL COX: John Kerry?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Yes.
PAUL COX: Well, at that point he was a veteran.
He was out of the military.
And so, I don’t know that he took actions
while he was in the military, but the veterans’
movement was very important.
And certainly, after I got out, I was active
in the veterans’ movement and in support
of the GI movement for a number of years after
I got out, working on an additional paper
called Up Against the Bulkhead that came out
of the San Francisco Bay Area.
I’ve told you the story of my one horrific
day.
And John Kerry was relating the results of
the Winter Soldier investigation to Congress
of numerous GIs talking about what had happened
to them at their time, this thing or that
thing or the other thing.
When you put them all together, it really
formed a pattern of how shabbily we treated
the Vietnamese who are our allies.
And he also made a very important point, which
was the airpower, not considered a war crime
such as cutting off an ear might be, but certainly
did tremendous damage to the Vietnamese people
and the countryside and the environment, along
with Agent Orange, which continues to—as
a legacy in Vietnam today, and the unexploded
ordnance, which is a tremendous problem in
Vietnam.
And as Ron pointed out, Ken Burns just glossed
over it and said, “Ah, the land in Vietnam
has largely healed itself.”
Well, it hasn’t healed itself.
They’ll never get rid of the unexploded
ordnance.
They are very much plagued by the dioxin contamination
from Agent Orange.
So, these things continue to—it’s a gift
that keeps on giving.
SUSAN SCHNALL: We talk about everything happening
50 years ago as though it’s the end.
What Paul was just mentioning is the issue,
continuing issue, of Agent Orange dioxin,
that continues to contaminate the land and
the people in Vietnam.
We have both been on a couple of trips to
visit the people and to see the children who
are born with these terrible birth defects,
who will never be able to lead any kind of
normal lives.
And the issue of that war 50 years ago is
that that legacy continues and that death
and that destruction continues today.
Paul mentioned the continuing problem of unexploded
ordnance.
Children and farmers who are trying to till
the land, if they come upon a scrap of metal,
that can explode, it can kill them, it can
maim them for life.
So, that war, 50 years ago, continues to harm.
And I’ll mention also that we know that
the children of American servicemen who were
in Vietnam have also been born with very similar
birth defects to those of the children in
Vietnam.
The worst part for the Vietnamese is, because
the land is contaminated with dioxin, babies
continue to be born and to be affected by
this problem.
We want to commemorate and to respect the
terrible, terrible massacre and the sacrifice
that the Vietnamese suffered those years ago,
and to come as servicepeople, as veterans,
to say we’re sorry, we take responsibility,
and we will continue to work for peace, and
we will continue to work with you to try to
heal some of these wounds of war.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Paul Cox, how—with the veterans
that you’ve known after you came out of
the military, how have many of the veterans
of Vietnam dealt with these issues of their
participation in what most of the rest of
the world continues an unjust, imperial war,
but is still regarded as a tragic mistake
by many leaders in this country?
PAUL COX: Well, I think there’s a range
of responses.
My own response to witnessing such a thing
was to turn against the war, and I’ve been
an activist ever since.
Other people haven’t probably talked about
it at all.
Some people have drank themselves to death,
shot themselves, jumped off of bridges.
Other people have just shut it down.
And then the few probably are still proud
of what they did in Vietnam.
The vast, vast majority of GIs that went to
Vietnam neither witnessed nor participated
in anything such as this, although, you know,
you have to say that the pilots that ran those
B-52s and the guy that pushed the button that
opened the bomb bay doors and dropped B-52
bombs did far more damage than any individual
who looked his victims in the eye while he
shot them.
So, the war itself is an indictment of our
country, and should be seen as such.
And the air war and the artillery and the
naval fire should all be seen as equally as
horrendous and as criminal and as inhumane
as those men that pulled the triggers in My
Lai or the ones that, in my unit, that pulled
the trigger on those civilians.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Vietnam War veteran
Paul Cox, Susan Schnall, former Navy nurse
who was court-martialed for dropping antiwar
pamphlets from a plane over U.S. military
bases around San Francisco Bay, and longtime
peace activist Ron Carver.
All three are in Vietnam today to mark the
50th anniversary of the My Lai massacre.
That does it for today’s special.
If you’d like to get a copy, go to our website
at democracynow.org.
Special thanks to Mike Burke, Sam Alcoff,
Nat Needham, Brendan Allen and Chelsea Reil.
Democracy Now! will be in Washington D.C. on Saturday, March 24th
for a live, multi-hour broadcast from the March for Our Lives,
lead by student survivors of the Valentine's Day Massacre
at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.
Tune in then.
