AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, the Florida state Senate
has voted to support a number of new gun control
measures, following a massacre at the Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland,
Florida, which left 17 people dead.
On Monday, the Republican-controlled state
Senate voted 20 to 18 to ban bump stocks,
to raise the minimum age to buy a gun to 21,
and to impose a 3-day waiting period for any
gun purchase.
But the measures do not include a ban on the
sale of assault rifles or limits on high-capacity
magazines.
The gun control measures were passed after
lawmakers removed a provision to arm most
teachers.
The gun control bill now moves to the state
House of Representatives.
AMY GOODMAN: Meanwhile, in Washington, Republican
lawmakers said last week they’re moving
on from the debate over gun control, after
failing to pass a single bill on firearms
in the wake of last month’s massacre in
Florida.
The congressional inaction came as President
Trump appeared to backpedal Thursday from
his surprise announcement a day earlier that
he supports comprehensive gun control measures.
Well, we turn now to one of the most vocal
advocates for gun control in Washington.
That’s Democratic Senator Chris Murphy of
Connecticut.
This is Murphy on the floor of the Senate
just after news broke on February 14th about
the mass shooting in Parkland, Florida.
As the students were being evacuated from
the school, he took to the floor of the Senate.
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Let me just note once again
for my colleagues that this happens nowhere
else other than the United States of America,
this epidemic of mass slaughter, this scourge
of school shooting after school shooting.
It only happens here, not because of coincidence,
not because of bad luck, but as a consequence
of our inaction.
We are responsible for a level of mass atrocity
that happens in this country with zero parallel
anywhere else.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Chris Murphy.
Well, yesterday, Juan González and I sat
down with Senator Chris Murphy, on Monday.
I began by asking him about the debate over
guns in Washington, and President Trump endorsing
comprehensive gun control and then taking
it back.
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: I think it’s important to
remember that this country is talking about
the issue of guns every single day.
The media may only pay attention when there
is a school shooting or a mass atrocity, but
every single day 90 people die from guns.
There is a mass shooting, meaning four or
more people being shot, in this country, on
average, every single day.
So, in Chicago and in Hartford and in Bridgeport,
we’re talking about the consequence of gun
violence 24/7.
So, listen, I can’t tell you where the president
is on this issue today.
Clearly, his gut political instinct tells
him that his party cannot avoid the fact that
97 percent of Americans, in the latest poll,
want universal background checks.
But, of course, he has this longtime affiliation
with the NRA, and they want none of these
changes to happen.
I don’t think that the issue is dead, as
your lead-up suggested.
I think that Mitch McConnell is willing to
bring a series of votes to the floor—not
this week, but perhaps in the coming weeks.
And if he does that, if he actually allows
us to have an open debate about the future
of gun laws in this country, I think he’ll
find a bunch of his Republicans willing to
vote with Democrats to do things like expand
background checks or make sure that every
state has a law like Connecticut has to take
guns away from dangerous people when they
start to show signs of danger.
That open debate is what we’re asking for,
and hopefully that will happen sometime this
month.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Senator, your reaction to
what’s been happening in Florida with the
Legislature over the weekend, and even in
the face of this enormous public upsurge of
calls for change, the Florida Legislature
instead votes to basically arm teachers?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Well, the NRA’s dream is for
people to believe this mythology that places
with more guns are more safe.
There were 30 studies done on this question
that all said the same thing: Places, communities,
states with more guns are less safe places,
not more safe.
The data is in.
That evidence started to mount, such that
the NRA actually got a law passed in Congress
shutting down that research, banning certain
federal agencies from continuing that research.
What we know is that places that have guns
are less safe, not more safe.
You are more likely to be the victim of an
accidental shooting than you are of a school
shooting.
Teachers don’t want to be armed.
Parents don’t want their kids to be going
to school in a place that are flooded with
guns.
And it’s disappointing that the Florida
Legislature essentially did the bidding of
the gun lobby.
I hope we don’t make the same mistake here
in Washington.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain how the NRA works
and how it has so many politicians in their
pocket for so long, despite the polls that
show, across the board, gun owners, non-gun
owners, folks who are anti-gun—across the
political spectrum, people overwhelmingly
support more gun control efforts?
I wanted to turn, as you respond to this,
to Emma González, who gave that remarkable
11-minute address in Fort Lauderdale a few
days after she and the other children and
teachers survived the massacre that killed
17 of their fellow students and teachers.
This is Emma González.
EMMA GONZÁLEZ: If the president wants to
come up to me and tell me to my face that
it was a terrible tragedy and how it should
never have happened, and maintains telling
us how nothing is going to be done about it,
I’m going to happily ask him how much money
he received from the National Rifle Association.
But, hey, you want to know something?
It doesn’t matter, because I already know:
$30 million!
And divided by the number of gunshot victims
in the United States in the one-and-one-half
months in 2018 alone, that comes out to being
$5,800.
Is that how much these people are worth to
you, Trump?
… To every politician who is taking donations
from the NRA, shame on you.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that was Emma González,
speaking a few days after the mass killing
at her school.
That day, she had just taken AP government
class, where the teacher was teaching about
the power of the NRA, this entrenched power.
You’re a senator.
Talk about how it works behind the scenes
and how you are fighting back.
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Well, let’s be clear: The
NRA doesn’t have power over Congress.
It has power over the Republican Party.
Ninety percent of Americans, as I mentioned,
want universal background checks, and 90 percent
of Democrats in the Congress will vote for
universal background checks.
It’s the Republican Party that has stopped
these measures over and over and over again.
And the explanation, yeah, certainly, has
something to do with the amount of money that
the NRA puts into these Republican candidates’
campaigns, but it’s much more about the
fact that the Republican Party over the years
has become essentially a party of one idea.
That idea is less government, getting government
out of every aspect of our lives.
And so, if you want to be a Republican candidate,
you have to prove how much you hate government.
You have to hate government more than the
other candidates in the Republican primary.
There is one organization that stands, more
than others, for the pure hatred, antipathy
for government, and that is the NRA.
Why?
Because the NRA stands for the ability of
citizens to arm themselves in insurrection
against their government.
So, the Republican Party has formed this alliance
with the NRA, because their stamp of approval
is one of the things that’s necessary for
Republicans to outflank other Republicans
in their primaries.
I know that’s a little bit down in the weeds,
but it’s not as simple as the donations.
It’s much more about what the NRA endorsement
means to the Republican Party.
The NRA doesn’t have influence over the
Democratic Party.
They have influence over the Republican Party.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Senator, I wanted to ask you
about a topic that’s not even really under
discussion right now, which is the assault
bans—the ban on assault weapons.
For 10 years, the United States did have a
ban, from 1994 to 2004.
From what I can tell, there was only one year
during that period of time when more than
20 people were killed in a mass killing.
But we’ve had now, in the last 14 years,
10 years where more than 20 people had been
killed per year in mass killings.
So, doesn’t it logically make sense that
assault—that the lifting of the assault
ban has only allowed these kinds of mass killings
to proliferate even further?
And why do you think that so many Americans
still are resistant to the assault ban?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Well, not many Americans are
resistant to the assault weapons ban.
The latest poll suggests maybe a quarter of
Americans want assault weapons to continue
to be legal.
Double that number want assault weapons to
be banned.
So, again, you know, this idea that this issue
is controversial out there is just not true.
I mean, Americans have made up their mind:
They want universal background checks, they
want these assault weapons off the street.
It’s only controversial here in Congress.
Listen, the gun industry’s business model
is different today than it was 30 years ago.
In 1980, over half of American households
had a gun.
And so, you know, as a gun company, you could
sell one gun to a lot of people and do all
right.
Today that number is shrinking.
Right now, you know, maybe one-third of American
households have a gun.
And so, in order to remain profitable, they
have to sell more expensive weapons to a smaller
number of Americans.
And that’s where the assault weapon comes
in.
Again, by and large, Democrats, you know,
believe that these weapons should be made
illegal.
I’d encourage anybody to take a look at
the testimony from doctors who treated people
who were shot by these weapons in Parkland
or in Sandy Hook.
There is something unique that happens when
a bullet enters your body from an assault
weapon versus a revolver.
Those bullets are traveling at a speed that’s
three times that of something—of a bullet
coming out of a handgun, and it rips your
body to shreds.
So, again, if we can break the NRA’s vise
grip on the Congress right now, because of
their vise grip on the Republican Party, we
can have a conversation about getting rid
of those weapons, as well.
The American public supports it.
AMY GOODMAN: So, explain how it works.
When you say the overwhelming number of people
in the United States support an assault weapons
ban, it was in effect.
It clearly reduced the number of mass shootings.
And yet that was allowed to sunset.
But right now you have the students at Parkland
organizing this March 24th March for Our Lives
in Washington, D.C.
Your own trajectory, having been the congressman
for the area of the Sandy Hook Elementary
School, being elected just a few weeks before
to become the senator from Connecticut.
Talk about what’s happened in this five
years that you’ve become senator and how
you see an assault weapons ban possibly happening.
Even the media, like CNN and MSNBC, which
is clearly for gun control, when talking to
the students when they talk about an assault
weapons ban, they, too, have drunk the Kool-Aid.
They, too, say, “Well, obviously, an assault
weapons ban is not possible.”
That’s the journalists on television speaking
to the kids.
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Right.
Well, I mean, if you want to sort of talk
about the scope of the five years since Sandy
Hook, though there has been no meaningful
action here in Congress, let’s remember
that many states have acted, and many lives
have been saved.
Several states have passed referendums strengthening
their gun laws.
Connecticut has passed some of the strongest
gun laws in the nation.
Evidence suggests that some of the laws that
we passed before and after Sandy Hook has
reduced our gun violence rate in Connecticut
by 40 percent.
That’s meaningful and significant.
The anti-gun violence movement is growing
and growing and growing.
You know, Emma González now has more Twitter
followers than the NRA does, and nobody knew
who she was just three weeks ago.
So, we’re getting stronger and stronger.
And the only way we eventually really win
here in Washington is by having an election
in which a bunch of people who have been voting
with the gun lobby and against their constituents
lose.
A lot of folks that have been voting against
the will of their constituents, whether it
be on assault weapons or on background checks,
they say, “Well, you know, voters really
don’t care about this issue.
They say they want gun laws to change, but
they are really voting more on, you know,
other issues, like the economy, jobs, immigration.”
This may be the first election, in 2018, where
voters are going to say, “OK, if you’re
not with me on background checks, then I’m
not with you.
If you’re not with me on assault weapons,
I’m not with you.”
And it’s going to take an election, I think,
where people lose their seats because of this
issue, before we really get change here in
Washington.
And I think the kids understand that.
I mean, I’ve met with these kids.
I think they want change this session of Congress,
but I think they’re skeptical.
They watch the way that Trump has bobbed and
weaved, and they are preparing to become an
electoral force.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And speaking of those young
people, what do you think the impact of a
huge march in Washington on March 24th would
have?
Clearly, as you say, the election in November
will be the real decider, but what impact
could this march have?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Well, I mean, I hope that this
march could convince some of my Republican
colleagues to take up these measures, maybe
vote for them.
I’m skeptical.
I think, you know, the lack of urgency that
they’re showing, the fact that Trump does
not look like he’s going to try to lead
Republicans to water on this issue, means
that this march is going to be much more about
sending a clear message to Republicans: Fix
this problem, or we’ll vote you out of office.
And this march can be a galvanizing force
for the fall.
I know there’s a lot of efforts to do massive
voter registration around these marches.
And remember, there’s one march in D.C.,
there are 400 other marches on the same day
all around the country.
And if every single kid that shows up to those
marches registers to vote, that might be the
biggest impact that they have.
AMY GOODMAN: Senator Murphy, I wanted to ask
about that televised White House meeting that
President Trump had with many lawmakers, that
you were a part of, where he urged all of
you to pass comprehensive gun control measures.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: You have to be very,
very powerful on background checks.
Don’t be shy.
Very strong on mentally ill.
You have to be very, very strong on that.
And don’t worry about bump stock.
We’re getting rid of it, where it will be
out.
I mean, you don’t have to complicate the
bill by adding another two paragraphs.
We’re getting rid of it.
I’ll do that myself, because I’m able
to.
Fortunately, we’re able to do that without
going through Congress.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s Trump, at the end,
talking about bump stocks, bump stocks which
convert semiautomatic guns into automatic
weapons.
In the Las Vegas case, it was responsible
for the deaths of so many scores of people.
It wouldn’t have made a difference, a bump
stock ban, when it came to the Parkland students.
But this issue of bump stocks, you hear him
saying, “I’m going to take control here.
Even if Congress won’t pass the ban, I’ll
do it through a rule change, through executive
order.”
Now, actually, though it looks like he’s
taking charge, that’s exactly what the NRA
ultimately called for after Las Vegas, when
they saw that they couldn’t stop gun control
measures from being voted on—although, ultimately,
that’s exactly what happened: They weren’t
voted on.
They said that they wanted the bump stock
ban not to be done through Congress, but through
a rule change.
That way, it could be easily rescinded.
Your response?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: That’s one of the reasons
they want it to be done in a rule change,
but also because it’s really on shaky legal
grounds whether or not the executive can get
rid of bump stocks.
The Obama administration did not get rid of
bump stocks, even though they wanted to, because
their lawyers told them that the administration
actually cannot ban a certain type of device
that converts guns into automatic weapons.
That was only something that Congress could
do, and that if the administration tried to
do it, a gun rights group would easily be
able to go to court and have the regulation
struck down.
And so that’s why the gun lobby wants him
to do it by regulation, not necessarily because
they think another Republican administration
is going to get rid of it, but because they
think they can get rid of it through the courts.
That’s why the Legislature has to do this.
And I hope we will.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think President Trump,
being in his presence last week, seeing his
vast, extreme turnaround just on this issue
of gun control, is unraveling further than
many have already talked about, what’s happening
in the White House now?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Yeah, I don’t know, you know,
all the inner workings in the White House.
I don’t focus on it like a lot of other
people do.
What I know is that, you know, being in that
meeting with the president when he endorsed
things that even some Democrats weren’t
willing to endorse, I knew, walking out, that
he was going to have to walk back some of
the commitments that he made there.
I think it’s important for Republicans to
remember, though, that the president, for
all of his flaws, deep flaws, has political
instincts that sometimes plug in to the mood
of the country on certain issues, and I do
think he recognizes that on this issue of
guns, Republicans are way out of step and
are really jeopardizing themselves electorally.
And while he’s, yeah, probably not going
to be helpful in getting this bill passed,
I do hope that Republicans listened to the
political advice that he was dispensing in
that meeting.
AMY GOODMAN: Might you filibuster again?
SEN.
CHRIS MURPHY: Well, I mean, it’s—let’s
see if we get the votes.
