This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, The War and Peace Report. I'm Amy Goodman.
And I'm Juan González. Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers around the country and around the world.
On Tuesday, voters headed to the polls for
a special election in Ohio and primaries in
Michigan, Kansas, Missouri and Washington.
A special election in Ohio’s 12th Congressional
District remains too close to call, but Republican
Troy Balderson has already claimed victory
over Democrat Danny O’Connor to serve the
remainder of former Republican Congressman
Pat Tiberi’s term. Balderson leads by just
1,754 votes, and thousands of absentee and
provisional ballots still need to be counted.
O’Connor is hoping to pull off a major upset.
Can you believe how close this is? We are
in a tie ballgame. And you made this possible.
President Trump won the district in 2016 by
a margin of more than 11 percent. Regardless
of who wins the special election, the two
candidates will face off again in November.
In Kansas, the Republican gubernatorial primary
also remains too close to call. The race pitted
the state’s new governor, Jeff Colyer, against
the state’s former secretary of state, Kris
Kobach. Earlier this week, President Trump
endorsed Kobach, who previously helped run
Trump’s widely discredited Presidential
Advisory Commission on Election Integrity.
In Michigan, Rashida Tlaib won the Democratic
primary for John Conyers’ old House seat.
She could now become one of the first Muslim
women elected to Congress. The Palestinian-American
politician had received endorsements from
many progressive groups, including Our Revolution
and the Greater Detroit Democratic Socialists
of America.
In another closely watched race in Michigan,
Gretchen Whitmer, a former leader in the Michigan
state Senate, won the Democratic gubernatorial
primary. Dr. Abdul El-Sayed, who had been
endorsed by Bernie Sanders, placed second.
He was attempting to become the nation’s
first Muslim governor. Shri Thanedar placed
third in the race.
Meanwhile, in Missouri, labor unions scored
a big victory as voters rejected a Republican-backed
right-to-work law that would have banned compulsory
union fees. And in another Missouri race,
Ferguson City Councilmember Wesley Bell unseated
St. Louis County prosecuting attorney Robert
McCulloch, who was widely criticized for his
handling of the police shooting of Michael
Brown in 2014.
To talk more about Tuesday’s results and
what they mean for the midterms in November,
we’re joined by two guests. In Washington,
D.C., Zaid Jilani is with us, staff reporter
for The Intercept. In Madison, Wisconsin,
John Nichols joins us, political writer for The
Nation.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now! Zaid
Jilani, let’s begin with you. Talk about
the significance of these races. Which were
you watching most closely?
[inaudible] but we had also reported from
Kansas, and we reported from a number of these
locations. Michigan, in particular, was interesting
because we had about a dozen Muslim Americans
running for offices, everything from governor
down through Congress to statehouse seats.
In particular, we were watching Abdul El-Sayed’s
race. I think in Michigan we saw a sort of
a fascinating microcosm of sort of a populist
base fighting with an establishment backed
by both labor unions and corporations, which
have sort of become the Democratic establishment’s
base, as well as a wildcard named Shri Thanedar,
who put $11 million of his own money into
the race.
In that race between Whitmer and El-Sayed,
talk about the significance of the win. I
mean, you had Bernie Sanders going out and
campaigning for the former—well, for the
Detroit health commissioner, Dr. El-Sayed,
also, here in New York, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
was there also campaigning for him. And what
that victory means for Whitmer?
Sure. So, Whitmer was basically the quintessential
establishment candidate. You know, she came
from the state Legislature. She was backed
by virtually every labor union in the state,
with the exception, I think, of the Michigan
nurses. She was the former daughter of the CEOof—the
former CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield. Their
lobbyists raised $144,000 for her at a single
event. And she basically had the support of
most elected officials across the state. So,
that was—you know, that was a basic establishment
lineup.
When it came to Dr. Abdul El-Sayed, I mean,
we have to remember, he was polling in single
digits when this race started. And he finished
over 30 percent last night. So I think, compared
to where he started and compared to what he
was trying to do, which was score a historic
win, he made a lot of progress.
But the real wildcard in this race was a man
named Shri Thanedar. He put about $11 million
of his own money into the race, despite the
fact that he had mused to a number of political
consultants about running as a Republican.
He was at a Marco Rubio rally in 2016, clapping
along with Marco Rubio. And yet this man already
achieved more than 15 percent of the vote,
basically by pumping money into Detroit, by
buying off some influential African-American
pastors. He did well with the African-American
vote. And unfortunately, that sort of created
a situation where El-Sayed and Thanedar, put
together, were maybe at the percentage that
would have defeated Whitmer. But his presence
in the race, running ads claiming he’s the
most progressive candidate in the race, running
ads claiming he was for single payer, helped
siphon votes that essentially allowed Whitmer
to win outside of Detroit, which Thanedar
dominated, and allowed Sayed to basically
build a base of young people, but not build
the full base that Sanders used to defeat
Clinton in the state earlier in 2016.
I’d like to bring John Nichols into the
conversation. John, what is your big takeaway
from the results yesterday?
Well, I think there’s a lot of them. It
was a really exciting day politically. And,
you know, I think that our media sometimes
is so Washington-obsessed that it misses a
lot of what’s happening out in the states.
To me, the most powerful signal came from
Missouri. And in Missouri, we saw a right-to-work
law put on the books by a newly elected Republican
governor, in combination with the Republican
Legislature. We’ve seen that all over the
country, in places like Wisconsin and Michigan
and Indiana, as very powerful interests have
pushed these right-to-work laws, which, of
course, are anti-labor legislation meant to
make it hard for unions to organize and collectively
bargain and participate in the political process.
In Missouri, however, they had a chance to
put the law on the ballot, to essentially
let the people overturn it. And by a 2-to-1
margin—remarkable numbers there—by a 2-to-1
margin, Missourians rejected the anti-labor
law. This is one of organized labor’s biggest
victories in a number of years. And it parallels
what you saw in Ohio back in 2011 when they
put a anti-labor law on the books and it also
lost by roughly a 2-to-1 margin. So I think
that’s a very, very big result and one that
we have to pay a lot of attention to.
I also think that Rashida Tlaib victory in
the primary to fill John Conyers’s seat
in Michigan, which you’ve discussed a little
bit, is a huge result. Rashida Tlaib ran as
an exceptionally progressive candidate. She
is an activist. She’s somebody who was a
state legislator but also was in the streets
working hard on a host of issues, speaking
out a lot on immigrant rights, as well as
refugee issues and basic economic justice
issues.
Finally, the other race I thought was incredibly
significant last night was the Missouri race
in St. Louis for the prosecutor’s seat.
Wesley Bell’s victory out there is just
a remarkable breakthrough win in a prosecutor’s
race that might well be the pinnacle race
in the country, because this is the prosecutor
who didn’t respond effectively to Ferguson,
and here you have a city councilman from Ferguson
running against the incumbent 28-year veteran
prosecutor on a platform of criminal justice
reform, addressing cash bail, raising all
the critical issues, and winning not by a
small margin. It looks like Wesley Bell’s
victory will be in the range of 57-43. So
that’s a very big victory out there. So
those are three [inaudible]—
John, I want to turn to a video of Ferguson
City Councilmember Wesley Bell speaking last
night.
And I know it’s bigger than me. This is
about change that will—again, that will
not only affect North County, but South County,
West County, Mid County. I mean, we’ve got
to start working on bringing this region together.
And, John, the impact of what we’re seeing
across the country now of very progressive
folks going after district attorney or prosecutor
seats, and therefore having a major impact
potentially on the criminal justice system?
Absolutely. Our media tends to cover congressional
races in Washington, D.C., fights, which is
logical, and last night you had a big one
in Ohio, and that was very important. But
these prosecutor races around the country
are contests that really touch people’s
lives at the most fundamental level. Prosecutors
have the ability to put people in jail or
to decide not to take cases to court. They
affect especially our communities in urban
areas, communities with people of color, immigrants,
all sorts of other folks who tend to come
into contact with the law and need folks in
office who are understanding, who respect
their rights. And instead, we’ve seen so
many prosecutors around the country who don’t
show that respect. Now you’ve got a generally
young generation of activist lawyers, of engaged
lawyers, running for these prosecutor positions
and winning them. And again I’ll emphasize,
to have a 28-year veteran prosecutor turned
out of office in St. Louis in the Ferguson
region is just a remarkable result. And I
think we have to pay a lot of attention to
it. And I do agree with you. My sense is that
this is something we’ll see more of in prosecutor
races around the country as the year proceeds.
There’s quite a few of them on the ballot
this fall.
Zaid Jilani, can you talk about the major
special congressional election between Balderson
and Danny O’Connor, still too close to call?
The Republicans poured $5 million into this
race. Democrats poured a million dollars into
it. It is traditionally a longtime Republican
district. Going back to, what, 1920, only
a few years were under Democratic control.
And Trump went there last weekend. Balderson
has declared victory. Trump has taken credit
for it immediately last night. But again,
the absentee ballots haven’t been counted—there
are thousands of them—and the provisional
ballots, and the difference is something like
1,700 votes.
Sure. So, I think the results in Ohio mirror
the results of many special elections since
President Trump has been in office, in the
sense that we’re seeing a tremendous Democratic
advantage in traditionally Republican districts.
I mean, this started really in Georgia with
the special election there, which Karen Handel
ultimately won. But that was also a district
that was in Republican hands for decades.
And I think we’ve seen that again and again.
I think something like eight out of nine of
these special elections ultimately went for
the Republican side, but every single one
was far too close for the Republicans, versus,
let’s say, a normal election year.
And I think that’s a combination of two
things, really, that’s at play in Ohio and
is at play nationally. One is, I think the
Republican base is sort of his depressed right
now. You know, the same thing that sort of
happened to the Democratic base in 2010, I
think, is kind of happening to the Republican
side here. We’re seeing sort of reduced
turnout, reduced voter kind of turnout in
these districts, and also we’re seeing kind
of energized a sort of Democratic Party in
each of these districts, although I think
it’s a little bit more of the former. We’re
seeing sort of a smaller Republican turnout
than we are seeing sort of a larger Democratic
turnout. And I think that’s definitely what
was at play here in Ohio.
I’m sure Republicans at the end of the day
probably will declare victory here. They’re
saying it’s too close to call, though most
likely it will be with the Republicans. But
the fact that a district that has been Republican
hands for that long was that close sort of
doesn’t bode too well for the Republican
Party going into the midterms.
Now, the question is: How long will that dynamic
hold? I think, since 2017, it’s sort of
been in that direction. But I’d be curious
if after 2020, if we’ll sort of see a return
to sort of the pattern, starting with the
Democrats losing seats, including losing Ted
Kennedy’s seat in the Senate originally
to Scott Brown. And I think that that really
gets to the foundational question here, which
is, in sort of a first-past-the-post system
where there’s two parties, when one party
screws up, the other one naturally benefits.
But the question is whether it will keep ping-ponging,
or whether one of these parties will address
core issues that matter to working people
and middle-class people, you know, issues
like making sure everyone has a good-paying
job, making sure everyone is addressing healthcare.
Healthcare is still, by far and away, the
most important issue in all of these elections.
When they poll people, people always say healthcare
is the top thing on their mind. The question
is whether the Democrats will actually be
able to govern after winning what I expect
them to win, quite a few elections over the
next couple years. And if they’re able to
do that, I think they’ll have a sustainable
governing coalition. Otherwise, two years
from now, I think we’ll be having the opposite
conversation of Republicans winning traditionally
Democratic districts or getting very close
to doing so.
And, Zaid, in terms of this whole issue of
what’s happening within the Democratic Party,
clearly there have been a lot of challenges
to establishment Democratic Party candidates
from the left, from much more progressive
candidates, but not a whole lot of them have
resulted in what happened here with Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez in the Queens congressional
election. I’m wondering what you’re thinking
about in terms of the balance of forces within
the Democratic Party?
Well, one, I think, on their overall scorecard,
the establishment has done pretty well since
2016. You know, they prevented Keith Ellison
from taking control of the political party.
They defeated most of challengers. They tend
to have a very strong advantage, especially
among older voters, particularly like older
African-American voters who they have deep
relationships with, in basically every race,
whether it was Tom Perriello versus Ralph
Northam, Bernie Sanders versus Hillary Clinton,
Chuy García versus Rahm Emanuel. Even Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez lost among traditionally African-American
neighborhoods in her district. You know, that’s
a really kind of a difficult point for a lot
of these insurgents. And actually, I think
Rashida Tlaib’s race is a good example.
Her campaign was based very much on aiming
at younger people and at the whiter parts
of her district, because she understood that
Brenda Jones, endorsed by Detroit’s mayor,
endorsed by many powerful labor unions, had
a very strong in to the traditionally older
African-American communities. And she focused
on sort of the younger, multiracial coalition,
much of it white, to get her win across.
And that’s a lesson progressives really
need to know. They need to know that, basically,
the establishment is very good at turning
out the voters it wants, right? Hillary Clinton
didn’t fight for the youth vote very much
in 2016, because she knew she lost it to Bernie
Sanders. In 2008, when Hillary Clinton lost
the South, she disinvested there and started
investing heavily in the Midwest and out West.
I think, going into 2020, Bernie Sanders,
or maybe Elizabeth Warren, will have to think
really hard. You know, if Joe Biden is leading
South Carolina by a massive amount, does it
really make sense to invest there? I think
one of the main differences strategically
between the establishment and between progressives
is I think progressives feel like they have
to win every vote. They certainly have to
represent every person once they take office;
there’s no excuse for not representing anyone,
whether they voted for you or not. But winning
elections ultimately is about winning every
vote. Gretchen Whitmer basically abandoned
Detroit because she knew that Shri Thanedar
bought off a number of influential power players
there and also spent tons of money on ads
there, whereas I feel like El-Sayed was trying
to still win that African-American vote in
Detroit, despite the fact that it went strongly
against Sanders in 2016 and it was strongly
for Thanedar this time.
So I think, you know, there’s a combination
of two things. One, the establishment still
has way more money. Whitmer had labor union
backing and corporate backing. And, by the
way, the unions, in almost all these races,
are endorsing the establishment, one, because
they don’t let their members vote, and,
two, because they cut off debates. A lot of
them are basically Democratic Party political
operatives. And the second lesson is that
you need to go for the votes where you think
you’re strongest, rather than trying to
get every vote just for the heck of it. And
I think that’s something Cynthia Nixon is
going to have to think about, running against
Andrew Cuomo. Cuomo has a massive lead among
the older African-American vote. Does it really
make a lot of sense to campaign to that population?
Or does it make more sense to campaign and
try to turn out millennials, try to turn out
young women, try to turn out those upstate
voters who aren’t so captured by the Democratic
machine and feel disenfranchised from the
Democratic Party? And I think that strategic
question is really what’s going to keep
being on progressives’ minds going into
2020.
I wanted to just quickly go to this issue
of the women’s vote. According to the Center
for American Women in Politics, at least 182
female major-party nominees will be running
for the U.S. House. That’s the highest number
ever. I want to turn to Michigan congressional
candidate Rashida Tlaib, who was speaking
on CBS New York. She won last night.
I felt a tremendous need to get into the ring
rather than sit on the sidelines. I always
tell people, in some ways, Trump being elected
president of the United States was kind of
like the bat signal for many women across
the country, not just Muslim women, but women
from all backgrounds.
John Nichols, your final comment on what’s
taken place? Also, Kansas too close to call,
Kris Kobach, the [secretary of state], still
in the lead, leader of the so-called voter
fraud commission, very discredited. And then
I want to ask you about something that happened
in Madison just in the last few days.
Sure. Well, you put a few things on the table
there. Let’s talk about them quickly. I
do think that you’re exactly right about
the rise of women in this electoral cycle.
We’re seeing women nominated in races across
the country and for a number of governorships.
And remember, in Michigan, you now have a
Democratic woman running for governor there,
with, I think, a significant chance of winning
that race. Rashida Tlaib, in the Detroit area,
is almost certainly going to win her race.
And again and again, you’re seeing these
races where women are stepping up and prevailing.
It is an important factor. And so many of
them, like Tlaib, were drawn into this competition
by their complete, I think, shock and anger
at the election of Donald Trump and many of
his actions since then.
You also asked about Kris Kobach. Kris Kobach
is narrowly ahead. That’s going to be a
race that probably goes to a recount—not
certainly, but probably. And if he is nominated,
this is the significant thing in Kansas. I
was out there a couple weeks ago. It’s very
striking that he will be running, if he’s
nominated, against a woman who very easily
won her Democratic primary and has, I think,
a real chance of prevailing in this election,
because Kobach is so offensive, not merely
to Democrats and a lot of independents, but
also to a good many Republicans, who simply
think he is too far right and too extreme
on a lot of these issues.
Finally, the one last thing I would circle
around to is that in Kansas there was another
race that was important, a primary, where
you saw James Thompson, a candidate that Bernie
Sanders and Alicia [sic] Ocasio-Cortez came
in to campaign for. Thompson is a candidate
who was abandoned, or at least neglected,
by D.C. Democrats when he ran in a special
election last year. He kept on running. He
just won his primary by a 2-to-1 margin and
really is one of those candidates that you
should keep an eye on, because it’s in that
Kansas district where the Democratic Party
didn’t step up in a special election last
year, but it has an opportunity to step up
this year. The question is whether they will
step up for a progressive populist who was
aggressively backed by Bernie Sanders and
Alicia [sic] Ocasio-Cortez.
Alexandria.
Yeah, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. And remember
this: Thompson is really doing a tremendous
job on the ground, if you look at him. And
this is something that, again, I think people
have to get out and look at these candidates
around the country. I’m struck by what a
number of them
are doing.
