AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Palestinians are protesting
in cities across the West Bank and Gaza Strip
after President Trump announced Wednesday
that he would recognize Jerusalem as the capital
of Israel and initiate a process of moving
the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
AMY GOODMAN: We continue our conversation
with Dr. Hanan Ashrawi, Palestinian politician
in Ramallah, in the occupied West Bank.
And we’re joined in East Jerusalem by Budour
Hassan, a Palestinian writer and project coordinator
for the Jerusalem Center for Legal Aid and
Human Rights.
Here in New York, Rebecca Vilkomerson is with
us, executive director of Jewish Voice for
Peace.
And we welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Let’s go to East Jerusalem right now, where
we want to turn to our guest in East Jerusalem,
Budour Hassan.
Your response in East Jerusalem, as you were
listening to President Trump yesterday?
And what is the response in the community?
BUDOUR HASSAN: Obviously, it was very frustrating
to hear that coming from Trump, but it was
not surprising, because U.S. complicity with
the Israeli occupation is not new.
It’s something that has spanned over generations.
And for Palestinians, it’s something that
is expected, because a nation like the United
States, that has been built on colonization,
it’s only natural for them to support another
colonizer state in Israel.
We obviously—while we are outraged, we know
the reason for our outrage is not just Trump’s
declaration.
Our reason for our outrage is that it was
under President Obama that the U.S. pledged
$38 billion of taxpayer—U.S. taxpayers’
money to support Israel militarily.
So this is why we are outraged.
We are outraged because the Palestinian Authority
continued to sell people the promise of negotiations
and peace, and the result is that all these
talks about peace and negotiations and the
peace process, that has been going on for
more than two decades, has only led us to
this.
And this is why people are protesting, because
it’s important to know that the young people,
women and men, who are taking to the streets
to tell President Trump and to tell the Palestinian
Authority and to tell everyone that Jerusalem
is and has always been and will always be
Palestinian.
But they are clear that their outrage is not
simply about Trump.
It’s about an entire system that has denied
Palestinians their rights.
And this declaration, to be honest, many of
us are a bit relieved that we are finally
seeing the true face of the so-called U.S.-Israel
shared values.
Trump—if anything, Trump is a personification
of what many U.S. presidents have always tried
to conceal or deny.
He is saying it clear.
He is not lying or cloaking his promise—his
promises to Israel by fancy words about peace
and negotiations.
And this is why now our battle is much more
clearer.
We know that this is a battle to reclaim our—to
liberate our country, and also to dissolve
the PA, because we believe—and many protesters
have said that today and will continue to
say that—that if the Palestinian Authority
is actually right or true in its indignation
about what Trump has done, it must be dissolved,
first and foremost, and it must declare that
the Oslo Accords are null.
And it also must strip Israel of its recognition.
Only when the Palestinian Authority does that,
we can talk about the possibility of rebuilding
a national movement.
But meanwhile, we cannot take the anger of
the PA seriously, while it continues to recognize
Israel and the legitimacy of the Israeli state.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: President Trump’s son-in-law
Jared Kushner is heading the Trump administration’s
efforts to broker an Israeli-Palestinian peace
plan.
But quietly, the Kushner Companies Charitable
Foundation is continuing to fund a far-right-wing
Israeli settlement in the West Bank that is
considered illegal under international law.
ProPublica reports that the Kushner Companies
Charitable Foundation made a donation of at
least $18,000 at the “Master Builders”
level to American Friends of Bet El Yeshiva
Center.
While the charity has given to the settlement
in the past, ProPublica reports this appears
to be the first time they’ve done so while
Kushner, whose title is senior adviser to
the president, is the lead administration
official brokering a peace plan.
So, Rebecca Vilkomerson, you’re the head
of Jewish Voice for Peace.
Could you comment on this, the fact that the
president’s son-in-law is part of a foundation
that’s providing funding to this far-right-wing
group in Israel, and also what the response
here in the U.S. has been among Jewish organizations
to Trump’s announcement yesterday?
REBECCA VILKOMERSON: Yeah.
I mean, I think something that Budour Hassan
said is very important, which is that in some
ways, you know, we know there’s going to
be incredible damage from this announcement,
but there is potentially a silver lining,
which is that the U.S. ongoing policies of
supporting Israel tacitly and being complicit
in Israel’s policies are being completely
laid bare.
And it’s not just Jared Kushner.
We have the U.S. ambassador, David Friedman,
who has also been a personal fundraiser for
settlements, as well.
So we have the actual—
AMY GOODMAN: Who was Trump’s bankruptcy
lawyer.
REBECCA VILKOMERSON: Who was also Trump’s
bankruptcy lawyer, right.
So we have these—so we have, you know, the
highest officials in the Trump administration
who have a clear interest not just in—you
know, really, with the far-right extreme settlers,
not just in the Israel government as it stands,
which is already extremely right.
And so, there is like—the bankruptcy and
the hollowness of the idea that the U.S. could
be a broker for peace, I think, is now very,
very clear.
And I would also hope that the sort of broad
swath of Americans who are completely horrified
by Trump, generally, will sort of recognize
the pattern here, and his recklessness and
criminality and cruelty, that this is very
much of a pattern.
And so, that group of voters, who tend to
support the way that the United States has
interacted with Israel and the United States’
support for Israel, will start to maybe question
that and will be able to understand that and
separate that out, in a way they weren’t
when Obama was indeed supporting Israel in
the same way with military and economic and
diplomatic aid.
In the Jewish community, you know, AIPAC is
supporting this move.
Some other big organizations are supporting
this move.
One of the organizations that I think was
very surprising for many of us in the Jewish
community was the Anti-Defamation League,
strongly supported this move.
And they’re ostensibly a civil rights organization,
but they’re here taking a position that
is absolutely against the human rights of
Palestinians, not just who are living in Jerusalem,
but all around the world.
So I think there was a very strong reaction
against their public statement in favor of
this decision yesterday.
And so, my hope is that this is an—the response
to it is an indication of the shift in the
Jewish community to really starting to understand
that the United States can’t keep playing
this role.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask Dr. Hanan Ashrawi
about the role of President Trump’s son-in-law
Jared Kushner, who is also under an increasing
microscope in investigations in Congress—
HANAN ASHRAWI: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —and in the special prosecutor.
You mentioned the political pressure at home.
So, he spent a lot of time with the man known
as MBS, the crown prince in Saudi Arabia,
Mohammad bin Salman, is considered very close
to him, not to mention extremely close to
the prime minister of Israel, Netanyahu, who
slept in his bedroom when he was growing up,
when he would visit, before he was prime minister.
Now, while Saudi Arabia has spoken out against
Trump’s move, there are some who are saying
privately he has already checked with them
and that they support him.
Is this possible?
What does this mean?
And what about the role of Jared Kushner as
the supposed peace negotiator in the Middle
East between the Palestinians and the Israelis?
HANAN ASHRAWI: Well, there are several issues
involved here and several layers of incompetence
and the sins of omission and commission.
Number one, Jared Kushner is one of the most
extreme Zionist individuals, who has habitually,
as you said, supported the Beit El settlement,
supported—he was the board of the Friends
of the Israeli Defense Forces, so to speak.
He was always intricately connected ideologically
to the most extreme right-wing components
of Israeli society, particularly the settlers,
who are outside the law, war criminals.
But he has also had economic ties with Israel,
and he has had some Israeli banks bail him
out when he was in economic trouble.
That’s another problem.
And third, his lack of experience and knowledge.
Fourth, the whole context, the whole setting
of people like Kushner, like Friedman, even
like Jason Greenblatt, and so on, who have
ideological commitments and who are entrusted,
under Kusher, with the task of achieving peace.
I mean, this is incredible.
It’s like putting the thief in charge of
the treasure or whatever.
So, in a sense, while they are buying more
time, procrastinating, going back and forth,
pretending that they are working on peace,
they’ve been buying Israel not only more
time, but favor.
And with the White House now, you have settlers
in the White House.
We used to say we had settlers in the West
Bank and Jerusalem.
Now they are in the White House, and they
have succeeded in taking over American policy.
Before, yes, the U.S.—and I said this before,
Amy—the U.S.—you could never accuse the
U.S. administration of being even-handed.
But now it’s complicit.
That’s the difference, that it has become
part of the crime, rather than at least trying
to maintain a semblance that it’s outside
this or that it can maintain a distance.
It cannot.
And that’s why it has destroyed its standing
and chances for peace.
But what’s alarming now—and I agree there’s
a silver lining that things are out in the
open in a very crude way and a very ignorant
way and irresponsible way, which is no source
of comfort, because the U.S. cannot contain
its actions.
We used to say, “Well, the poor Americans,
look what they got.”
But now it’s the poor world, because any
decision taken in Washington has repercussions
all over the world.
I mean, they’re capable of destabilizing
the whole region.
They’re capable of weighing in in favor
of impunity and lawlessness and violating
international law and U.N. resolutions.
They’re capable of becoming partners in
crime.
And they’re capable of doing all that, and
still, in a very super—talking about peace,
as though they are doing this for the sake
of peace.
So, it’s not just a question of individuals.
It’s a question of combination of factors,
of special interests, of economic interests,
of ideological commitments, and, of course,
of lack of experience and foresight when it
comes to the necessity, when it comes to the
need to understand not just the intricacy,
but the components of the situation.
I don’t call it a conflict.
This is a situation where you have occupier
and occupied, where you have one military
force enslaving a whole nation and holding
it captive and stealing its land and resources—and
getting away with it, and getting support
and cover from the U.S. to pursue this, and
buying more time.
So I don’t think at any point was there
any hope or chance that the Trump administration
or the U.S. would be an even-handed peace
broker or would try to oversee a just solution.
So, now that this has become clear to everybody,
something we’ve been talking about for years—I
started in ’91 talking about this, and I
was in charge of negotiating with the Americans.
But the problem now is that we have to minimize
the damage that they are doing.
And at the same time, we have to mobilize
the Arabs, the Europeans, the rest of the
world, international organizations and so
on.
And we have to put our own house in order.
I don’t want to transform this discussion
into, you know, sort of internal mea culpas
and so on.
Yes, there are problems and issues that are
domestic, but now we are facing serious problems,
and we do have to, in a sense, band together.
We have to try to face this external challenge
in a way that is unified, responsible, with
a cohesive and bold strategy, because our
first responsibility is to maintain people’s
ability to stay on the land, to maintain people’s
ability to resist and to withstand such an
onslaught of several factors, several forms
of aggression, some of them military by the
Israeli army, some of them economic, some
of them in terms of siege, others in terms
of political and legal negation and so on.
All these different forms of assaults on Palestinian
reality and rights require that we face them
with a unified front, with a clear and bold
strategy, and try to maximize all those areas
and sources of strength that we could use
in order to protect our cause and our land
and our people.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, Dr. Ashrawi, could you
say a little about what you expect the response,
both in Israel and Palestine, to be?
Reportedly, in Israel, not just people in
Netanyahu’s administration, but also more
liberal politicians, have welcomed this move
by Trump.
And you, yourself, have said that by making
this move—
HANAN ASHRAWI: Yes.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: —Trump has emboldened terrorists
and more extreme elements within Palestine,
as well as the most aggressive elements of
the Israeli Netanyahu administration.
So what kind of response do you expect?
HANAN ASHRAWI: I think it certainly has emboldened
the more extreme ideological hardline elements
in Israel.
It has shown that might makes right, that
you can violate the law, that you can be aggressive
and hostile, and you can act with criminality,
and you will be rewarded.
Not only will you get away with it, now you
will be openly rewarded, yes.
And this has helped shift all the discourse
in Israel to the right.
The whole terrain has gone to the right and
to the extreme right and so on.
The peace camp is literally nonexistent now.
And the Labor Party, which used to be called
the Labor Party, they call themselves the
Zionist Camp.
Even the transformation of the language has—is
very indicative.
They have supported this move, and they see
it as something that should have been done
and that is normal and that helps, you know,
the Jewish state.
So, nobody is saying that they are non-Zionist.
But at the same time, they should have more
sense to understand the danger inherent in
such a move, including danger to Israel itself.
It’s not my responsibility to protect Israel
from its extremists and from the fumbling
and mumbling of the American administration.
But it is also my job to see—to understand
whether there are saner voices within Israel,
within the U.S., who will stand up to these
voices of extremism and violence and so on.
Within Palestine, I don’t think that we
have, you know, terrorism and so on.
I don’t like to use that label.
But I think, globally, that there are forces,
there are irresponsible sources, that would
like to exploit the Palestinian question,
that—who are in search of an excuse—people
like ISIS, for example, who would like to
grab on, hold on to something as a justification
for their acts of terror.
And that’s why I said the Palestinian cause
must not be up for grabs, number one, by any
nut who wants to use it.
And two, I think that it should show, in many
ways, that if you adopt the language of peace,
the language of legality, the language of
humanity, the language of morality, the language
that says, “We can negotiate, despite everything
else, a just peace,” then you have nothing
to gain, but everything to lose, that you
will be defeated by other voices.
And I think this is the fatal flaw in this.
So, in Palestine, you’re seeing that the
PLO, that has funded—that, by the way, the
Palestinian Authority does not take political
decisions.
It’s an administration that works on the
ground to deliver services.
But the PLO, that since '91 has committed
itself—or since ’88, to a negotiated settlement,
and has staked, actually, its own career on
the peace process as—or on a negotiated
settlement as a means of resolving the conflict,
has been shown to be unable to deliver.
And this is why it has been weakened.
And that's why it strengthens the opposition,
people who say, “Well, they don’t listen
to the voice of peace or reason, therefore
they will listen only to the voice of violence
and ideology,” because these are the weapons
used by Israel, and now by the U.S., when
it comes to Palestine.
And that’s why I see a new configuration.
I think that this is a deal changer, anyway—deal
breaker, anyway, and a game changer.
I think you are seeing more and more hardline
positions, more and more polarization.
The extreme right has become more emboldened
in Israel, and it feels justified.
The settlers have taken over the agenda.
And they have neutralized and excluded, in
many ways, any voices for peace.
That’s why it’s important, when you talk
about Jewish Voice for Peace and other American
Jewish organizations, that they speak out,
that they not be intimidated, because they
are not living in the system that is becoming
more and more fascist in Israel—
AMY GOODMAN: I want to ask—
HANAN ASHRAWI: —even though they have problems
in the U.S., as well.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to ask—
HANAN ASHRAWI: And that’s why in Palestine
we also need an internal dialogue in order
to come up with a new strategy.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to ask Budour Hassan,
who is standing right now in East Jerusalem:
What are the plans?
The announcement of three days of rage tomorrow,
the Friday day of prayer, what the plans are
there?
President Trump talking about hiring the architects
and the contractors to begin the process of
building the embassy in Jerusalem.
What’s going to happen over these next few
days, that you know of, Budour?
BUDOUR HASSAN: I’ll tell you something.
In July, when Israel introduced metal detectors
outside Al-Aqsa Mosque, people, without waiting
for leaders, without waiting for anyone—neither
religious nor political leaders, it was young
women and men, religious, secular, Muslim,
Christian, atheist, some people who never
prayed in their lives before—took to the
streets and camped outside Al-Aqsa Mosque.
And after two weeks of popular rebellion,
that was leaderless and that was grassroots,
they managed to topple the metal detectors,
and they managed to, probably for the first
time, defeat an Israeli plan in Jerusalem.
And actually, it was them who imposed their
decision on the Israeli administration.
And I believe that people in Palestine say,
of course, the days of rage are important,
and we expect that tomorrow there will be
protests, but we also know that this is a
long struggle.
I mean, people will—some people will probably
forget, but people in Jerusalem have been
suffering from colonization and from repression,
especially extreme repression for the last
two years.
And this is why they are perfectly aware that
this is—this battle is not two days or three
days or a few demonstrations here and there.
It is a battle for Palestinians in Jerusalem,
especially with mass residency revocations
by Israel, with mass arrests, as well, home
demolitions and demographic engineering that
Israel tries to operate in occupied Jerusalem.
People are aware that this is a very long
battle that is going to need them to stand
together and that is going to need them to
resist Israel’s attempts to Judaize and
expand its control over Jerusalem.
So, there are—I mean, I am sure that there
will be protests today and tomorrow.
In Damascus Gate, for example, there has been—there
have been protests, and there have been confrontations
in Ramallah, as well.
And tomorrow, because it’s Friday and because
it’s usually a very iconic day, after prayers,
people, young women and men, will protest.
But I think it’s a very long battle for
Palestinians.
And a friend said that it’s not in the White
House where the identity, the Palestinian
identity, of Jerusalem is denied; it’s in
the streets of Jerusalem that people will
continue to reinforce and stress the Palestinian
identity of this city.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Hanan Ashrawi, we have 20
seconds.
Do you agree with Saeb Erekat that the two-state
solution is dead?
HANAN ASHRAWI: It has been, for some time
now.
But it was a very convenient myth, that kept
the image, the facade, of a process ongoing,
and that was used constantly to pacify those
who felt that, you know, they’ve done their
national duty, like the Europeans and others,
by saying, “We are committed to the two-state
solution,” but standing aside and allowing
Israel to destroy it single-handedly.
So I think, yes, this is—it’s final now,
but the issue is what will take its place.
I do not like to see any vacuum, in terms
of political vacuums or even vacuums in terms
of struggle and internal reform and so on.
We need, as I said, a new national dialogue.
And we need to reform our institutions and
our strategies in order to face the tremendous
challenges we are seeing materializing right
now before our eyes.
AMY GOODMAN: Dr. Hanan Ashrawi, we want to
thank you very much for being with us, Palestinian
politician, speaking to us from the occupied
West Bank in Ramallah; Budour Hassan, Palestinian
writer, speaking to us from East Jerusalem;
and Rebecca Vilkomerson, executive director
of Jewish Voice for Peace, here in New York.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, Time magazine has named
its 2017 Person of the Year: “The Silence
Breakers,” the women who have spoken out
against sexual harassment and assault.
Stay with us.
