AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
On Thursday, the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee held a classified briefing with
Pentagon officials on the deadly ambush in
Niger earlier this month, when five Nigerien
soldiers and four U.S. Special Forces were
killed.
Meanwhile, the Pentagon separately confirmed
for the first time that a second U.S. military
team was involved in the operation and was,
quote, “involved in the same timeline.”
The Associated Press reports the patrol that
was ambushed had been asked to help a second
team of commandos that had been hunting for
a senior member of al-Qaeda.
There are about 6,000 U.S. troops operating
across Africa, with at least 800 in Niger.
Meanwhile, Somalia continues to recover after
a massive bombing in Mogadishu that killed
at least 358 people and wounded 400 more,
and a roadside bomb exploded on Sunday killing
11 people.
The explosions come after the Trump administration
stepped up a U.S. campaign against al-Shabab
in Somalia.
In March, President Trump declared Somalia
a so-called zone of active hostilities, giving
wide latitude to military leaders to launch
airstrikes and ground assaults.
In May, that led to the first U.S. combat
death in Somalia since 1993.
In August, a raid by U.S. soldiers and Somali
troops on a village outside Mogadishu left
10 civilians dead, including three children.
The Guardian reports the suspected bomber
in the Mogadishu massacre is from the specific
community targeted by the raid last August,
a village near the capital, Mogadishu.
The Mogadishu massacre killed more than 300
people.
This week, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
Nikki Haley became one of the highest-ranking
officials in the Trump administration to visit
the African continent.
Haley traveled to Ethiopia, South Sudan and
the Democratic Republic of Congo, where she
arrived after she was forced to evacuate while
visiting a refugee camp in South Sudan, when
a protest erupted against President Salva
Kiir.
During her visit, Haley said the U.S. relationship
with South Sudan is, quote, “at a crossroads.”
NIKKI HALEY: We’re disappointed by what
we’re seeing.
This isn’t what we thought we were investing
in.
What we thought we were investing in is a
free, fair society where people could be safe.
And South Sudan is the opposite of that.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, to talk more about U.S.
operations on the African continent, we’re
joined by reporter Nick Turse.
He’s a fellow at The Nation Institute, a
contributing writer at The Intercept, where
his latest stories are headlined “It’s
Not Just Niger—U.S. Military Activity is
a 'Recruiting Tool' for Terror Groups Across
West Africa,” also his piece “The U.S.
Will Invade West Africa in 2023 After an Attack
in New York—According to Pentagon War Game,”
and at Vice, his latest piece, “The U.S.
is waging a massive shadow war in Africa.”
He’s the author of the book Tomorrow’s
Battlefield: U.S. Proxy Wars and Secret Ops
in Africa and his latest book, Next Time They’ll
Come to Count the Dead: War and Survival in
South Sudan.
Nick, welcome back to Democracy Now!
NICK TURSE: Thanks for having me on.
AMY GOODMAN: Let’s begin in South Sudan.
Why did Nikki Haley go there?
Talk about the protest that occurred there.
NICK TURSE: Sure.
Nikki Haley was dispatched there basically
as a result of a speech last month that President
Trump gave to African leaders at the United
Nations.
It was a very tone-deaf speech, where he,
in fact, lauded the achievements of an African
country that doesn’t exist—Nambia.
But in the speech, he also mentioned that
there were conflicts in the Democratic Republic
of Congo and especially South Sudan that needed
tending to, that he was dispatching Haley
to do something about it.
What it was was never exactly clear.
She was on something of a fact-finding mission.
She met with South Sudanese refugees in Ethiopia.
And then, as you mentioned, she went to one
of these protection of civilian sites in South
Sudan, where there have been, you know, internal—internally
displaced people basically stranded there
for years, since the civil war broke out in
2013.
And things got heated, and she was escorted
out of the camp.
AMY GOODMAN: So, explain the situation in
South Sudan.
NICK TURSE: Sure.
In December of 2013, the president of South
Sudan, Salva Kiir, launched a ethnic cleansing
campaign in the capital city, Juba.
AMY GOODMAN: It’s one of the newest countries
in the world.
NICK TURSE: Yes, it’s the youngest nation
on Earth.
And this was, in many ways, a U.S. nation-building
project.
The United States spent somewhere around $11
billion bringing South Sudan into nationhood.
The South Sudanese fought for and died for
their independence, but the United States
was really the backer of this project.
And it all fell apart in 2013.
The country has been in a state of civil war
since then.
And the government has been carrying out ethnic
cleansing campaigns across the nation.
AMY GOODMAN: Against who?
NICK TURSE: It started out as campaigns against
the Nuer, which is the largest of the ethnic
minorities.
This is carried out by, as I said, President
Salva Kiir, who’s a member of the Dinka,
who are the largest ethnic group in the country.
Since then, the civil war has spread.
And most recently, it’s been affecting the
deep south of South Sudan, the Equatoria region,
where there are somewhere around 10 to 20
ethnic minorities.
They’ve been targeted, and they’ve been
leaving the country in droves, mostly to Uganda,
about a million refugees across the border
since the late summer of 2016.
Now, Nikki Haley, when she was in South Sudan,
said that President Kiir could not claim that
his soldiers weren’t committing these atrocities.
But, in fact, that’s what Kiir has been
doing for months now.
He’s been claiming that fake news and social
media drove these people across the border.
But I was there earlier this year.
I talked to refugees who had left the country.
I spoke to people who were displaced in the
country.
I saw the burned villages.
These people ran because of a government-run
ethnic cleansing campaign, massacres, murder,
village burnings.
All this was going on then and goes on today.
AMY GOODMAN: What is the U.S. interest now?
NICK TURSE: Well, yeah, the United States,
I think, especially—it was a bipartisan
effort, so there are a lot of people in Congress
that believe that the United States has an
ongoing role to play in South Sudan.
What the White House thinks should be done
there is very unclear.
Before Ambassador Haley left, she was talking
tough about cutting off U.S. aid as a way
to leverage U.S. power against the government
of South Sudan.
But since she arrived there, saw the refugees,
she said that she now understands that cutting
off U.S. aid would hurt the most vulnerable
South Sudanese.
It’s really an intractable situation, and
it’s difficult to figure out exactly what
the United States can do and what Nikki Haley’s
mandate is.
AMY GOODMAN: On Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador
to the U.N., Nikki Haley, visited Gambela
in western Ethiopia, where nearly 350,000
refugees flooded across the border from South
Sudan amidst the country’s civil war.
NIKKI HALEY: This is an international crisis.
This is not just Ethiopia’s problem.
This is an international crisis.
And when you look at the thousands of people
here and you see that they’re supposed to
have one health clinic for 10,000 people,
and there’s 86,000 people in one clinic,
it’s wrong.
I mean, they’re trying to make ends meet
by, you know, working off of food shortages,
but at some point you have to look and say,
“No one deserves to live like this.”
AMY GOODMAN: Haley said the United States
is considering how to pressure South Sudan’s
president, Salva Kiir, into peace, but said
withdrawing aid may not work.
Nick Turse?
NICK TURSE: Yes.
You know, this is the quandary the United
States has been in.
At one time, they were giving South Sudan
millions and millions of dollars for their
military, to train politicians there, technocrats.
Now it’s been reduced basically to aid.
And, you know, that’s the leverage the United
States has.
But cutting that off means that so many people
in need will be without.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re talking to Nick Turse,
who is the author of several books on Africa,
Tomorrow’s Battlefield: U.S. Proxy Wars
and Secret Ops in Africa and his latest book,
Next Time They’ll Come to Count the Dead:
War and Survival in South Sudan.
We’ll talk about the United States presence
throughout Africa—6,000 U.S. troops, it’s
believed—and what the U.S. was doing in
Niger, where the U.S. special ops forces and
as well as five Nigerien troops were killed.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Africa Dream Again” by Youssou
N’Dour.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we talk about the U.S.
presence in Africa.
I want to turn to Republican Senator Lindsey
Graham of South Carolina, member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee.
He spoke to reporters last week after a meeting
with Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who
said the military is shifting its counterterrorism
strategy to focus more on Africa.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM: The counterterrorism rules
under President Obama, I thought, were overly
restrictive.
They denied us the ability to basically engage
the enemy effectively and aggressively.
The war is morphing.
You’re going to see more actions in Africa,
not less.
You’re going to see more aggression by the
United States toward our enemies, not less.
You’re going to have decisions being made
not in the White House, but out in the field.
And I support that entire construct.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we continue our conversation
with Nick Turse.
He’s the author of Tomorrow’s Battlefield:
U.S. Proxy Wars and Secret Ops in Africa;
his latest book, Next Time They’ll Come
to Count the Dead: War and Survival in South
Sudan.
Respond to what Lindsey Graham has said.
Talk about what the U.S. is doing in Africa.
NICK TURSE: Well, the U.S. is doing a lot
in Africa.
He talked about restrictions during the Obama
era, but this was an era of major expansion,
which, this past year, has, I have to say,
jumped to another level.
U.S. troops are now conducting, according
to the commander of U.S. Africa Command, 3,500
exercises, programs and engagements per year.
So that’s nearly 10 missions per day on
the African continent, something that I think
that most Americans are completely unaware
of.
I think Lindsey Graham states that he was
unaware of the extent of this activity.
So it’s a massive increase of late.
When AFRICOM began, it was running about 172
exercises and missions per year.
So this is almost a 2,000 percent rise in
U.S. military activity on the Africa continent.
And this runs counter to what AFRICOM was
originally sold as to the American people
and to the world at large, that it would be
something like the Peace Corps in camouflage,
that there would be humanitarian operations,
building of orphanages and digging of wells,
that sort of thing.
But it’s a fully militarized U.S. geographic
combatant command, where you have troops running
missions that, you know, are often sold as
training and advisory, and done in a training
and advisory capacity, but really are indistinguishable
from combat.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, the discussion this week
on Capitol Hill, we keep hearing many senators
talking about giving more money to the U.S.
military, that the death of the four Special
Forces soldiers in Niger means the U.S. needs
more money and that Africa is the place where,
you know, the U.S. military action will be
focused.
Now, your story, one of them that you wrote,
“It’s Not Just Niger—U.S. Military Activity
is a 'Recruiting Tool' for Terror Groups Across
West Africa,” explain.
NICK TURSE: Yes.
This is something that a number of experts
told me, that, you know, the United States
has been pumping hundreds of millions of dollars
into counterterror programs since just after
9/11 in West Africa—Niger, Mali, Mauritania,
this entire region.
The idea was to make this region a bulwark
against terrorism.
The thinking just after 9/11 was that weak
states, fragile governments, ungoverned spaces,
these were places that terror groups could
proliferate.
But at the time, the United States didn’t
recognize any transnational terror groups
in the region.
After all this U.S. activity, after running
one special ops mission after another, year
after year, now there are a proliferation
of terror groups all across that region—depending
on how you count them, maybe six to 10, including
the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara, which
is the group that reportedly conducted this
ambush that killed the four American Green
Berets.
AMY GOODMAN: Not all of them were Green Berets,
but they were Special Forces.
On that issue of these Special Forces, 800
soldiers in Niger?
What is the drone base?
Why was it being built there?
NICK TURSE: Well, in 2013, the United States
began drone operations there, a hundred U.S.
personnel dispatched to Niamey, the capital
of Niger.
And the base was designed for providing what
they call ISR—intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance—over the Niger and the
greater West Africa region.
Since then, the United States struck a deal
with Niger to build a much larger base in
the town of Agadez.
U.S. Africa Command says that this is—they
call it something like a temporary contingency
location, which sounds like an airstrip with
a couple tents around it.
But declassified secret documents that I obtained
show that this is a $100 million drone base
that they’re building.
They chose Niger, these documents say, because
the government there was open to them bringing
in MQ-9 Reaper drones, which are the larger,
newer variant of the Predator drone, a potentially
much more lethal drone package.
Originally, these were supposed to be carrying
out, again, ISR missions, reconnaissance,
surveillance.
But now, in the wake of this attack, there’s
a major push on to arm these drones and have
them fly over the region.
And this was something else that I also saw
in the documents.
Niger was the only country in the region that
was open to having armed drones based there.
AMY GOODMAN: And both the U.S. and France
are active there.
NICK TURSE: Yes.
This is because of the collapse of Niger’s
neighbor, one of its neighbors, Mali.
In fact, a U.S.-trained officer, one of these—one
of the officers trained in the U.S. counterterror
programs after 9/11, overthrew the government
of Mali, because there was an insurgency in
northern Mali that this officer didn’t think
that the government was taking on in the correct
way.
He proved incompetent at taking on the insurgency,
as well.
Islamists pushed his army back towards the
capital.
And there was a real fear that Mali would
be overtaken by Islamist rebels.
So France intervened, with the backing of
the United States.
And now France has been stuck in a counterinsurgency
there, that seems that it’s also interminable
and that the French cannot find a way to extricate
themselves from.
AMY GOODMAN: Where else does the U.S. have
drone bases across Africa?
NICK TURSE: Well, there are drone bases that
pop up all across the continent, and the U.S.
builds them and shuts them down depending
on need.
In the past, they’ve had drone bases in
Ethiopia, in Chad, also in Kenya.
I think the drone base that—of recent vintage,
that’s been most important to the U.S.,
is in the tiny, sun-baked nation of Djibouti
in the Horn of Africa.
There’s a major U.S. base there called Camp
Lemonnier, but the drone base is a satellite
facility.
It’s called Chabelley Airfield.
And the United States has run missions there
that target the African continent.
Also they run drone missions that fly to Yemen.
And then it was used for engagements against
the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, as well.
It’s a very important, centrally located
drone base.
AMY GOODMAN: So, you have 6,000 U.S. troops.
Do you think that’s the correct number?
NICK TURSE: I think, on any given day, there’s
somewhere between 5,000 and 8,000 U.S. troops
on the continent, depending on the missions
that are going on at the time, because troops
cycle in and out.
But 6,000 is a reasonable number.
AMY GOODMAN: In some, what, 50 countries in
Africa.
NICK TURSE: Yeah.
The United States is in somewhere around 49
or so African countries, at least over the
last couple years.
They’re conducting training missions, exercises
and, in some cases, you know, commando raids
and drone strikes.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to Professor Horace
Campbell, currently spending a year in West
Africa as the Kwame Nkrumah chair at the Institute
of African Studies at the University of Ghana,
a peace and justice scholar and professor
of African American studies and political
science at Syracuse University.
He spoke on Democracy Now!
earlier this week about forces—about U.S.
forces in Africa.
HORACE CAMPBELL: So what we must be clear
about to the progressive forces in the United
States of America, that neither France nor
the United States can have any political legitimacy
in Africa, when on the streets of the United
States of America fascists are walking around
with Nazi flags and police are killing black
people.
I want to go back to the point that we made
at the beginning.
United States has no legitimacy for fighting
terrorism in Africa, because you cannot fight
to defend black lives in Africa when black
lives are not important in the United States
of America.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Professor Horace Campbell.
Your response to what he says, Nick Turse?
NICK TURSE: Well, he makes a strong point
there.
And, you know, I might add that—and this
is something in my recent pieces—that the
United States’s counterterror activities
in Africa have seemed to have the opposite
effect, in many ways, that, you know, the
U.S. was supposed to be building up counterterror
capabilities, but we’ve just seen a proliferation
of terror groups all across the continent.
So, you know, the legitimacy is lacking, and
then also the execution of this.
It’s really gone counter to what the United
States’ aims have been.
AMY GOODMAN: In your piece in The Intercept,
the headline is “The U.S. Will Invade West
Africa in 2023 After an Attack in New York—According
to Pentagon War Game.”
What is this war game?
NICK TURSE: It was a war game that was carried
out over several weeks last year.
The acronym of it was JLASS-SP.
And this was conducted by students at the
U.S. military’s war colleges.
These aren’t, I should say, West Point cadets
or something like this.
These are generally colonels in the Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marines, some of the best
up-and-coming strategic thinkers in the U.S.
military, people that will be generals running
the wars in the coming years.
They ran a very intricate war game, and this
was one part of it—but a pivotal part.
The war game posits that there will be a terror
attack in New York targeting the Lincoln Tunnel.
It will be the largest terror attack since
9/11, the most casualties since then.
And it will be carried out by a West African
terror group, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,
one of these groups that’s cropped up in
the region since 9/11.
Because of this attack, the United States
decides to invade West Africa, starting in
Mauritania.
And, you know—and it won’t be a surprise
to anyone that’s watched U.S. wars since
9/11 that this quickly becomes a quagmire,
that the United States goes in thinking that
it’s going to be a short campaign, that
we can eliminate the terrorists there and
withdraw quickly, but it soon turns into an
intractable conflict where the United States
has to surge in forces just to maintain its
occupation, and there seems to be no way to
get out of it.
AMY GOODMAN: And what’s the significance
of a Pentagon war game?
NICK TURSE: Well, I mean, this is—it’s
not an intelligence estimate, but this is
something that shows what the United States
is thinking about, where it sees threats coming
from, what it sees as the “reasonable,”
quote-unquote, U.S. response to it.
And this generally is the U.S. response.
I could certainly see something like this
happening.
And the results are chilling, especially given
what we’re seeing now—talk coming out
of Congress about, you know, increasing U.S.
military operations in Africa.
It’s a sobering account of what this might
mean for all of us, here in America and especially
in Africa.
AMY GOODMAN: What about Somalia?
So the timeline was what?
October 4th, that was the time of the Niger
killings, of the ambush of the U.S. and Nigerien
forces.
Ten days later, October 14, though a lot of
people learned about what happened in Niger,
and Trump did not reveal what happened in
Niger until after Somalia, but 10 days later,
this double bombing in the capital, what they’re
calling the Mogadishu massacre, over 350 people
killed, 400 people wounded.
And The Guardian reports that the suspected
bomber is from the specific community targeted
by a U.S. raid last August in a village near
Mogadishu that killed some 10 people, among
them children.
Can you talk about what’s happening in Somalia
and the U.S. presence there?
NICK TURSE: Well, the U.S. has had a long-standing
presence in Somalia.
This has been one of the places where U.S.
counterterror efforts have been at their largest
in Africa.
You know, it’s cited by some in the government
as a success story.
Al-Shabab has, in many ways, been pushed back.
But, you know, there’s a continuing terror
campaign from al-Shabab that doesn’t seem
to be able to be solved through military means.
But this is—this is the way the United States
has chosen to deal with it and chosen to deal
with what it considers threats all over the
continent, that it’s a sort of a counterterror
whack-a-mole exercise.
AMY GOODMAN: What does it mean that Trump
called it a so-called zone of active hostilities?
NICK TURSE: Yeah, this allowed for a loosening
of bonds on U.S. military activity there.
It allows the U.S. to pursue a more vigorous
military campaign.
And because of that, there’s a much greater
chance of civilian casualties and a chance
of just continuing the cycle.
This is something that experts have told me
again and again, that U.S. operations on the
continent are, in many ways, fueling terrorism,
that these U.S. military operations are causing
discontent, and by killing, you know, innocent
civilians, that you’re just breeding more
terrorists, country after country.
AMY GOODMAN: During a news conference last
month, President Trump congratulated African
leaders for helping make his friends rich.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Africa has tremendous
business potential.
I have so many friends going to your countries,
trying to get rich.
I congratulate you.
They’re spending a lot of money.
AMY GOODMAN: “They’re spending a lot of
money,” President Trump said.
Nick Turse, as we begin to wrap up?
NICK TURSE: Yeah, I think Trump has viewed
Africa maybe in two ways, that it’s some
sort of transactional economic zone, where
the United States can extract and make money,
and then, you know, as a theater of war.
And, you know, that speech was exceptionally
tone-deaf.
And it was the first time he had really addressed
what his Africa strategy might be.
And as you might expect, after those words,
it became more and more muddled.
It’s very difficult to understand exactly
what the Trump administration sees for the
future of Africa, and they really haven’t
even staffed up with experts on it within
the administration, at the State Department.
So, it seems to be an ad hoc policy.
I think you’ll see a lot more military engagement,
especially after Niger.
And, you know, I’m not sure about the economic
empowerment that Trump’s talking about.
AMY GOODMAN: You talk about the shadow war
in Africa.
What do you mean?
NICK TURSE: Well, I mean, these campaigns
have been going on in Africa for years, but
it’s largely unknown to the American people.
And when you ask AFRICOM, as I have, about
what’s happening on the continent, they’re
always talking about training missions, about
advisory missions.
Well, this is exactly what the mission in
Niger was billed as.
This was working with local forces in an advisory
capacity.
But we see that, you know, an advisory or
training mission can quickly become combat.
And I think that the more U.S. engagement
you see, the greater the chance that we’ll
have more and more catastrophes like this.
AMY GOODMAN: Is there anything else you want
to add that you think people in the United
States—certainly, the corporate media hardly
focuses on Africa.
I mean, when you have, for example, the attack,
what they call the Mogadishu massacre, of
358 people dead, almost no attention.
Of course, right away, there is a mention
of it.
But in the aftermath, the devastation, the
loss of life.
What should people understand across Africa
right now and be looking for?
NICK TURSE: Well, you know, I think it’s
important to keep an eye on places like South
Sudan, which we talked of earlier, Democratic
Republic of Congo, Central African Republic.
These are places where the United States had
a more robust diplomatic effort before, but
has—the United States has pulled back, in
many ways.
And these are places where the United States—the
United Nations has warned of potential genocide,
of ethnic cleansing campaigns.
I think these are stories that are completely
under-, and sometimes un-, covered in the
United States, but I think they’re places
that will be making the news in the future,
for all the wrong reasons.
AMY GOODMAN: As President Trump expresses,
to say the least, a tremendous bellicose intent
in various areas, are you concerned what that
will mean as he focuses on Africa?
NICK TURSE: I am.
You know, I think that this is the primary
U.S. bent on the continent, that, you know,
while a country like China has promoted economic
engagement, the United States has really seen
Africa as a counterterrorism problem.
And the way to deal with that, in U.S. thinking,
is to deploy more military forces, build more
bases, deploy more troops.
AMY GOODMAN: And last question, and this goes
to a piece you wrote just a few months ago,
looking at what’s happened in Cameroon,
“Cameroonian Troops Tortured and Killed
Prisoners at Base Used for U.S. Drone [Surveillance].”
And this was a report that came out by Amnesty
International.
NICK TURSE: Yes, I worked with The Intercept,
Amnesty International and a group called Forensic
Architecture.
And what we found was that there’s a small—one
of several small U.S. bases in Cameroon, or
a Cameroonian base where the United States
has an intermittent military presence and
U.S. contractors are flying drones.
On the same base, Cameroonian forces were
torturing and sometimes even killing prisoners,
people that were suspected of supporting Boko
Haram but, in most cases, were completely
innocent and had no ties to the group.
This is—you know, one, it’s illegal.
Two, it’s building discontent in Cameroon.
And it’s just—
AMY GOODMAN: This is at a U.S. base for drone
surveillance—I said “strikes” before,
but surveillance?
NICK TURSE: Surveillance.
It was a—there are U.S. contractors who
are flying drones out of this base, and then
U.S. special operations forces that cycle
in and out to work with—as this is another
training mission for U.S. troops.
But, you know, our allies are committing gross
atrocities on a large scale.
And this doesn’t go unnoticed by people
in Cameroon.
People in the United States don’t know about
it, but we might know about the backlash to
it in the coming years.
AMY GOODMAN: And this just happened today:
Three U.N. peacekeepers from Chad were killed,
and two others injured, when their logistics
convoy was attacked in northern Mali, this
according to the United Nations.
The U.N. Security Council condemned the attack
on the road.
The 12,000-strong U.N. peacekeeping mission
in Mali has become the most dangerous in the
world, as Islamic militants routinely attack
U.N. convoys across the north.
Mali, of course, a neighbor of Niger.
NICK TURSE: Yes.
You know, this is what I was talking about.
After the U.S.-trained officer, Captain Sanogo,
overthrew the government in Mali, it really
destabilized the entire country.
And because of that, in the north and even
in the central part of the country, there
have been militant groups operating ever since.
They’ve really carved out strongholds.
So, you have French and African forces, backed
by the United States, conducting counterterror
campaigns.
But this is an ongoing insurgency, and it
shows no sign of slowing.
AMY GOODMAN: Nick Turse, I want to thank you
for being with us.
We’re going to link to all of your pieces
with different news organizations.
Nick Turse is fellow at The Nation Institute,
author of Tomorrow’s Battlefield: U.S. Proxy
Wars and Secret Ops in Africa.
His latest book, Next Time They’ll Come
to Count the Dead: War and Survival in South
Sudan.
Nick Turse is also a contributing writer at
The Intercept.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back in a minute with Carl Hart.
We’ll talk about the national health emergency
that President Trump has declared around opioids.
Stay with us.
