AMY GOODMAN: Schools across Oklahoma are closed
today for a third day as teachers continue
their strike demanding more funding for education
and increased pay.
Oklahoma’s public education budget has been
slashed more than any other state since the
start of the recession in 2008, and its teachers
are among the lowest paid in the nation.
Scores of teachers are planning to begin a
123-mile protest march today from Tulsa to
Oklahoma City.
Meanwhile, thousands of teachers continue
to protest in Kentucky, demanding a reversal
to a provision in a recently passed bill about
sewage treatment that gutted teacher pension
benefits.
On Monday, every school in the state was closed
either due to spring break or anticipation
of a massive rally in the capital of Frankfort,
when teachers filled the rotunda of the Kentucky
state Capitol, chanting “Fund our schools!”
This is Kentucky Education Association President
Stephanie Winkler.
STEPHANIE WINKLER: There will be no more bills
like that after November.
We have to fight for every single new teacher.
You can tell me all you want, “It’s not
going to hurt you.”
If you hurt one of us, you hurt all of us!
AMY GOODMAN: This year’s wave of teacher
rebellions began in West Virginia, where teachers
won a 5 percent pay raise after an historic
strike.
The protests have also inspired teachers in
other states, including Arizona, where union
members are threatening to strike unless their
demand for a 20 percent wage increase is met.
The teacher protests in West Virginia, Oklahoma,
Kentucky and Arizona have been described by
some as a “red-state revolt.”
In 2016, Donald Trump won all four states.
Meanwhile, in higher education news, nontenured
faculty at Loyola University Chicago are planning
to go on strike today.
For more on teacher uprisings, we go to Oklahoma
and Kentucky.
We’re joined by four guests.
In Oklahoma, Andrea Thomas, a 9th and 11th
grade English teacher at Newcastle High School
outside of Oklahoma City, has taught for 19
years, is now on strike.
Mickey McCoy is a retired English teacher
and school board member in eastern Kentucky,
taught for 27 years.
Also in Kentucky, we’re joined by Democratic
state Representative Attica Scott, who serves
on the House Education Committee.
In 2016, she became the first African-American
woman serve on Kentucky’s state Legislature
in 20 years.
And we’re joined by Mike Elk, senior labor
reporter at Payday Report and a correspondent
for The Guardian.
Elk’s recent piece is headlined “'Arab
spring for teachers': educators in Oklahoma
join wave of strikes.”
Mike, let’s begin with you in Oklahoma.
Just give us an overview of what’s taken
place.
MIKE ELK: Well, Amy, after the successful
West Virginia strike—a lot of teachers here
had already been talking, prior to the West
Virginia strike, about organizing some sort
of walkout.
But when they saw teachers in West Virginia
win that 9-day strike, that historic strike,
it gave them a lot of confidence to keep pushing.
And so, what happened here is that over a
hundred school districts throughout the state
now are out on strike.
And in some of these school districts, the
Democratic superintendents of the schools
are actually quite supportive, because of
how bad the funding cuts are.
My colleague and I, Karina Moreno, the brilliant
public administration professor at Long Island-Brooklyn,
crunched the numbers.
And Oklahoma has cut more from its state budget
since 2009 than any other state in the country.
It has one of the lowest tax rates on oil
and natural gas.
The tax rate is effective 3 percent tax rate
on oil and natural gas production.
In comparison, Texas, neighboring Texas, which
pays its teachers a starting salary of $18,000
more, taxes oil and natural gas at an effective
rate of 8 percent.
So what we’re seeing here is that teachers
are demanding a lot more in terms of funding.
Already the state has passed a $6,000 pay
raise for teachers.
But teachers are saying it’s about a lot
more than a pay raise.
It’s about funding classrooms.
It’s about having textbooks.
I’ve talked and interviewed so many teachers
that are telling me that they can’t even
get proper supplies or textbooks.
They can’t assign homework, because they
can’t risk losing a $200 textbook.
And they tell me that their students know
the state’s not investing in education.
And this is at a time that Oklahoma is booming.
You know, you go to downtown Oklahoma City
or go to downtown Tulsa, and the place is
booming with oil money.
So it’s a question of taxation, and it’s
a question of rolling it back.
And we’re seeing teachers here make a very
bold stand.
And almost every teacher I talked to emphasizes
that this is strike not about raises, but
about making sure they get more money for
the classroom.
And, you know, it looks like it will go on
for at least a week or two.
The superintendent in Tulsa, where I’m at,
just announced that she would close schools
for an entire week.
And she’s appearing later today, the superintendent
of Tulsa, at a rally to kick off a 123-mile
march from Tulsa to Oklahoma City, that’s
expected to take a week.
So this strike here will go on for a while,
and it looks like the strike in Kentucky will
go on for some time, too.
And it’s going to be incredible to see what
kind of ripple effect this has.
AMY GOODMAN: So, let’s go to Andrea Thomas,
Andrea Thomas who is in Oklahoma City.
You’re a teacher.
You’ve been a teacher for almost two decades,
you and your husband, in the Oklahoma schools.
Talk about why you’re striking and what
you’re demanding.
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes.
Well, the Legislature, you know, they have
passed the $6,000 raise.
And we can live with that.
What we’re fighting for now is for the kids.
Like, I’ve seen so many signs that have
said, “We’re here for the kids.
We’re here for the kids.”
I’ve had students come and support us.
It’s about funding for the classrooms.
It’s about technology.
You know, we’re lacking in technology at
our school.
It’s about being able to implement safety
measures.
We haven’t—you know, in our society today,
we’d love to implement more safety measures,
but it’s so hard to do.
Our librarian, she—you know, we don’t
have a library budget.
If she wants new books for our library, she
has to do fundraisers.
It’s about class size.
And my class sizes have grown immensely in
the past few years, you know, classes of 35.
And it’s just so much harder to have a relationship
with your students and do what’s best for
them, whenever you have so many—
AMY GOODMAN: Andrea—
ANDREA THOMAS: —and you’re just trying
to survive.
AMY GOODMAN: Andrea, in Oklahoma—
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —I think the teacher salaries
are like 49th in the country.
That’s 49 out of 50.
Also, in some school districts, there’s
so little money that classes are only four
days a week.
They close school on the fifth day, also so
teachers can make some extra money doing other
jobs.
How do you and your husband get by?
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes, we are relying on that
fifth day now for our extra jobs.
We both work at an Herbalife shop.
We both, you know, sell Herbalife.
I sell Monat.
I clean houses.
My husband, he even sells plasma, you know,
his own plasma, when things get super tough.
It’s caused us—
AMY GOODMAN: He sells his blood?
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you find—are you cleaning
the houses of your students?
ANDREA THOMAS: No, I do for a shop and for,
you know, just some people in town.
AMY GOODMAN: That will amaze people around
the country, that schools are closed on the
fifth day, for teachers to be able to make
more money and just because they can’t keep
the schools open.
I wanted to go across to Kentucky, to Mickey
McCoy.
You’re a retired English teacher, deeply
concerned about your pension.
Can you talk about what’s happening in Kentucky
now, as thousands of teachers have descended
on the state Capitol in Frankfort?
Talk about what you’re most concerned with.
MICKEY McCOY: Well, I’m most concerned with,
and most of my brothers and sisters who have
come down, to 12,000 to 15,000 the other day,
are concerned about this war that is on education.
There’s a war on public education.
And it seems that the teachers didn’t need
to be drafted.
They volunteered.
And they will continue to volunteer until
we can straighten out the things that need
to be straightened out.
It’s not just about pensions.
It’s not just about our medical insurance.
Do you understand that we have like youth
service centers that are being cut?
And these youth service centers help the kids,
both in urban areas and in rural areas, where
I’m from, with things that they need, not
only just school supplies, but a shirt on
their back, shoes on their feet.
They give them extra food to take home.
And this Legislature—well, this governor,
Governor Matt Bevin, is sort of like a general
in this war on education, public education,
and wants to replace public education with
charter schools, charter schools that will
pick and choose who they’re going to teach,
charter schools who will not care for—who
will not take the underprivileged kids.
They seem to—are able to build their little
school the way they want to.
And if this is allowed to be funded in Kentucky
or any state, we’re going to change this
nation into a place of the haves and have-nots.
And we ain’t gonna let that happen.
No, not in Kentucky.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to turn to the person
who’s sitting right next to you, the Kentucky
state Representative Attica Scott.
Attica Scott is the first African-American
woman to serve on Kentucky’s state—serve
in Kentucky’s state Legislature in 20 years.
Thousands of teachers descended on the Capitol
yesterday.
Can you talk about what it was like to simply
get into your building, State Legislator Scott?
REP.
ATTICA SCOTT: Definitely.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
I actually come from an activism and organizing
background as the former coordinator of Kentucky
Jobs with Justice.
So, for me, it was exciting to see this kind
of mobilizing and organizing that we need
to have more of in Kentucky.
We need more of that righteous anger that
Dr. King had.
We need more of the people descending on their
state Capitol and saying that Kentucky deserves
better.
And I was there with my daughter, who is a
public school student who wanted to be in
Frankfort to support her public school teachers
and to support public employees across Kentucky.
And we made our way through the crowd, speaking
to people, high-fiving with people, saying
to people, “Thank you for being here.
Thank you for speaking up for the people who
can’t make it to Frankfort.”
And for both of us, we understood clearly
why it was such a tight pathway to get from
my office in the Capitol Annex into the Capitol
building.
And that was just fine, because we weren’t
the legislators who were trying to destroy
public education or hurt public employees
and public teachers.
Instead, we—you know, I’m a legislator.
My daughter is a student who supports public
education.
So we weren’t afraid to walk through the
crowd.
We walked through the crowd, and we knew we
were walking through a group of friends and
family members who were there standing up
for themselves, while I went into the House
chambers to fight for and with them.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain, State Representative
Scott, the whole issue of demanding a reversal
to a provision in a recently passed bill about
sewage treatment that guts the pension benefits?
REP.
ATTICA SCOTT: So, the sewage pension bill,
Senate Bill 151, on the Thursday before Good
Friday, that morning, it was a sewage bill.
And by that afternoon, it was the so-called
pension reform bill, a bill that members of
the committee only had about five minutes
to read, a bill that in fact is probably illegal
because we did not have an actuarial analysis,
a fiscal impact statement, on the bill and
how it would impact the inviolable contract
that we have with our public educators.
And yet, members of the committee, then those
of us on the House floor, were expected to
vote on that bill, pass it out, with little
to no debate in the committee.
We had extensive debate on the House floor,
but it passed anyway, because, as Mickey said,
the governor and his followers in the Legislature
are determined to destroy public education.
And taking away the agreement that we made
with teachers, the inviolable contract, and
moving their retirement benefits into a 401(k)
plan, that violates our commitment to our
public employees.
And the way in which we—and I say “we”
because I’m part of the Legislature, but
it’s really the so-called new Republican
majority.
The way that they pushed that bill forward
made it very clear that they knew that what
they were doing was wrong.
They knew that what there were doing was not
in the best interest of the commonwealth of
Kentucky.
And those of us who are on the right side
of this issue knew it, as well.
AMY GOODMAN: I understand that the Education
Association called for everyone to wear red,
a kind of—oh, wearing red is the sign of
solidarity in a red-state revolt.
Mickey, are you wearing red for ed?
MICKEY McCOY: You know, it just happened to
just fit so well that I put it on.
AMY GOODMAN: And State Rep. Scott, same with
you, your blouse?
REP.
ATTICA SCOTT: I’m definitely wearing red
for public ed.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, on Tuesday night, independent
Senator Bernie Sanders tweeted out a video
message applauding the teachers in Oklahoma
and Kentucky.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: You know, there are pundits
out there who talk about blue states and red
states and purple states.
I have never believed that.
I think that any state in this country which
has working people struggling economically,
struggling to send their kids to school, struggling
for healthcare, struggling for child care,
that is a state that can become progressive.
And I want to applaud the teachers in West
Virginia, in Oklahoma, in Kentucky—so-called
red states—who are helping to lead this
country to change our national priorities,
who are saying loudly and clearly that we’ve
got to take care of our kids, we’ve got
to take care of our schools, and that is more
important than giving tax breaks to billionaires
and large corporations.
Thank you, teachers in West Virginia.
Thank you, teachers in Oklahoma.
Thank you, teachers in Kentucky.
We’re with you.
Take care.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that is Senator Bernie Sanders.
You are in the state, State Representative
Scott, of Kentucky.
That is the state of the Senate majority leader,
Mitch McConnell.
Has he weighed in in any way?
And how can the federal body, the Congress,
deal with this strike, that is now crossing
the country, from West Virginia to Oklahoma
to Kentucky?
REP.
ATTICA SCOTT: Unfortunately, the Senate majority
leader has not weighed in in any way that
would make any bit of difference for the people
in the commonwealth of Kentucky.
And that’s why what you’ve seen is a grassroots
movement.
You’ve seen the hashtag #120strong.
Those are grassroots folks, who have said,
“You know what?
We don’t actually need elected officials
to be our spokespeople.
We’ll speak for ourselves, and we’ll organize
ourselves, from Appalachian to urban to rural
to suburban areas, and we’ll descend on
and we’ll take over our state Capitol.
And we’ll shut down our public schools until
we not only get what we want as far as the
public pension, but also making sure that
we take care of our kids.”
How dare we, in the commonwealth of Kentucky,
remove funding for textbooks from our budget?
On Monday of this week, we removed funding
for textbooks from our budget.
That is something that is inexcusable, unacceptable,
and Kentucky deserves better.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to go back to Andrea Thomas
in Oklahoma.
What effect did the West Virginia—very successful
West Virginia strike have on you going out
on strike?
And also, your concerns about your daughter?
She’s a junior in high school right now?
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes, I would say the West Virginia
strikes were inspiring for us as teachers.
I’m in a Facebook group, and there’s been
a lot of West Virginia teachers pipe in and
say, “Stay strong.
We’ve got you.
We support you.”
So, that’s nice.
As far as my daughter is concerned, yes, she’s
a junior in high school.
I am very concerned about how we’re going
to afford to send her to college.
It’s just so hard, in the environment that
we have and in the lack of funding that we
have.
It’s just really hard to make ends meet
and to find a way to send your own kid to
school.
AMY GOODMAN: Mike Elk—
ANDREA THOMAS: I can tell you—
AMY GOODMAN: Go ahead, Andrea.
ANDREA THOMAS: Sorry.
I mean, I can give you an example.
Like, they had a deal at our school where
kids were getting class rings.
My daughter didn’t get a class ring.
We couldn’t afford a class ring.
So, it’s just things like that that hurt.
AMY GOODMAN: And you and your husband are
both teachers.
Your husband is selling his own blood, you’re
cleaning houses, in addition to teaching.
ANDREA THOMAS: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: You’ve got 4-day-a-week school,
is that right?
This is public school in Oklahoma.
ANDREA THOMAS: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: So, the fifth day—
ANDREA THOMAS: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —because they can’t afford
to keep the schools open the fifth day, and
so you can work second and third jobs?
ANDREA THOMAS: Yes.
And it does help with our second and third
jobs.
We have managed, I feel like, to handle that
situation very well.
Our students are still performing well with
our 4-day week.
They’re still getting the same amount of
time that they got before.
I feel like I might even be even getting more
in, in my lessons, because I have longer hours.
So, it hasn’t been negative, but it’s
been helpful for us as teachers.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, Mike Elk, as you
look at this movement across the country,
particularly in red states, the states that
elected Donald Trump, you’ve been covering
education for years.
You come out of West Virginia, the successful
teachers’ strike.
Your final thoughts?
MIKE ELK: Well, Amy, I think we’re in a
new era.
I think we’re in a new period.
And, you know, the only thing I can really
compare this to is when we were organizing
as digital media journalists.
And I remember I was leading a drive at Politico
in which I was fired, and Washington Post
wrote an article called “Why don’t internet
journalists organize.”
It featured some of our organizing there at
Politico.
And I just remember hundreds of reporters
tweeting about it and saying, “We’re going
to get it done.”
And the next couple years, we organized three
outlets, including getting a first contract
at HuffPo, Guardian, where I work, and other
publications.
And what we found in that movement, I think,
is what a lot of teachers are finding now,
is the social media support has really changed
the game.
Teachers know, when they’re out on a picket
line, and they post a photo, and hundreds
of their neighbors like it on Facebook, that
people have their back.
And that feedback loops quite simply didn’t
exist.
So I think we’re getting into a new era
here.
People are upset with the war on teachers.
You know, we’ve seen students walk out over
Donald Trump’s repeal of DACA.
We’ve seen students walk out over gun violence.
We’re seeing teachers walk out now.
And, you know, in the state of Oklahoma, as
well as in Kentucky, we’re seeing a lot
of local school boards being very supportive
of folks walking out.
So it’s no longer a teachers’ union versus
the school board, or teachers’ union versus
the students.
It’s really students, teachers and school
boards coming together against some of these
Republican-dominated state legislatures.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to have to leave
it there, Mike, but we’re going to continue,
of course, to follow this.
And we’re going to link to your piece, as
you are senior labor reporter at Payday Report,
“Wave of teachers’ wildcat strikes spreads
to Oklahoma and Kentucky.”
As you speak to us from Tulsa, thanks so much,
and Andrea Thomas speaks to us from Oklahoma
City, and Mickey McCoy, a retired English
teacher, and state Democratic legislator Attica
Scott speak to us from Louisville, Kentucky.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, speaking about movements,
we go south.
We go to Memphis, Tennessee.
Fifty years ago today, a man who led major
movements, Dr. Martin Luther King, was gunned
down, was assassinated on the balcony of the
Lorraine Motel.
Stay with us.
