AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
Rescue operations are ongoing in Mogadishu
after two massive truck bombs exploded in
quick succession Saturday night, killing at
least 300 people and wounding more than 300
others.
It was the deadliest attack in Somalia since
the rise of the al-Shabab militant group a
decade ago, and one of the worst bombings
by a non-state actor in recent years.
The disaster is now being referred to as the
“Mogadishu massacre,” and some are calling
it “the 9/11 of the Somali people.”
The Somali National Army, police and intelligence,
as well as African Union forces, are searching
for survivors.
ABDIWAHAB ABDULLAHI: [translated] We’e been
here for the past three days and are continuing
with the cleanup exercise.
Yesterday, we pulled out five people alive
from the rubble.
We also managed to retrieve several dead bodies.
In the nearby buildings, we’ve been notified
there might be more bodies trapped under some
damaged buildings.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: In the worst of the two bombings,
a truck packed with hundreds of pounds of
explosives detonated near the Safari Hotel,
collapsing the building and igniting a nearby
fuel tanker.
The resulting fireball set cars on fire and
flattened nearby businesses and homes, trapping
people under the rubble.
On Sunday, hundreds of Somalis poured into
the streets of Mogadishu to condemn the attacks.
This is Rahma Abdi Ali, one of the protesters.
RAHMA ABDI ALI: [translated] It was a massacre
that happened yesterday, and I never saw such
a thing in the last 27 years.
I witnessed a little boy’s head laying on
the ground, and his mother and other children
with their heads also cut in the explosion.
People buried people’s body parts separately,
because they collected them separately.
It was a very shocking event.
AMY GOODMAN: Somalia’s president declared
three days of national mourning after the
attacks.
There’s been no claim of responsibility,
but Somalia’s government was quick to blame
al-Shabab militants, who have been behind
past bombings in Mogadishu.
The explosions came after the Trump administration
stepped up a U.S. campaign against al-Shabab
in Somalia.
In March, President Trump declared Somalia
a so-called zone of active hostilities, giving
wide latitude to military leaders to launch
airstrikes and ground assaults.
In May, that led to the first U.S. combat
death in Somalia since 1993, when Navy SEAL
officer Kyle Milliken was killed in an assault
on an al-Shabab radio station.
In August, a raid by U.S. soldiers and Somali
troops on a village outside Mogadishu left
10 civilians dead, including three children.
For more, we’re joined by Democracy Now!
video stream by the Somali scholar and writer
Abdi Samatar.
He’s a professor of the Department of Geography,
Environment & Society at the University of
Minnesota, the author of Africa’s First
Democrats: Somalia’s Aden A. Osman and Abdirazak
H. Hussen.
And joining us from Nairobi, Amanda Sperber,
freelance journalist who splits her time between
Nairobi, Kenya, and Mogadishu, Somalia.
Her new article for IRIN News is headlined
“Shock and revulsion over Mogadishu bombing.”
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Amanda, let’s begin with you in Nairobi,
Kenya.
Can you explain what you understand took place,
the horrific attack that killed more than
300 people and injured roughly that same number?
AMANDA SPERBER: Yeah.
I mean, it’s pretty much what you said.
The attacks were horrific.
The outcome has been devastating.
To me, what I think I’ve seen that’s been
the most upsetting aftereffect is the—is
really the lack of capacity that the country
has to deal with this.
People are still being pulled from the rubble.
The hospitals are running out of blood.
The hospitals don’t have enough supplies.
So, I think, to me, what’s really devastating
about this is—beyond what happened, it’s
what happens next.
And, I mean, I talked to one of the ministers
who says there aren’t enough sheets, there
aren’t enough water—there isn’t enough
water, there isn’t enough antibiotics.
So I think that’s where the real focus needs
to be now.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Amanda, what do you make
of the fact that no one has claimed responsibility
for the attack up until now?
AMANDA SPERBER: I mean, that’s pretty interesting.
As far as we know, al-Shabab is the only legitimate
contender.
What I’ve heard, I think there are a few
different options for what the strategy could
be behind that.
One that I’ve heard speculated, especially
from the International Crisis Group, is that
there has been a conversation-slash-tension
between al-Shabab about whether or not to
stay linked to al-Qaeda, which they currently
are, or whether to join IS, and that this
more aggressive attack was the result of the
hardliners expressing affiliation with IS.
Another conversation—another option that’s
been speculated is that this was honestly
a mistake and that the truck was headed for
the Foreign Ministry’s office and that the
reason al-Shabab hasn’t claimed responsibility
is strictly because they don’t want to be
affiliated with an attack this deadly.
A third option that’s been speculated is
that it’s actually in some ways more terrorizing
to not claim responsibility and to sort of
let that kind of ominous fear of “we can’t
control what’s happening, we can’t protect
ourselves, we don’t know who’s after us”
sort of linger.
So, I think there are a few different factors
at play in terms of what could cause the fact
that no one’s taken responsibility yet.
AMY GOODMAN: Abdi Samatar, you’re a Somali
scholar and writer.
Can you talk about your thoughts on what has
taken place, how unusual this is, if you feel
it has anything to do with the increased U.S.
military push in Africa?
And we’re also going to speak, beyond Somalia,
about what’s happening in Niger with the
four U.S. Special Forces soldiers killed.
But first, let’s focus on Somalia with this
horrific death toll.
ABDI SAMATAR: It’s a pleasure to be with
you, Amy and Democracy Now!
This is more than a massacre.
It’s carnage.
I have absolutely no doubt that this is the
work of al-Shabab.
The truck came on the road that comes from
the west part of the city into the heart of
the capital, and that area of the country
and that area west of Mogadishu is completely
controlled by al-Shabab.
There’s nobody else.
There’s no ISIS.
There’s nobody else there.
And so, speculations aside, this is a fact,
if you look at the geography of the route
that the truck took.
So that’s the first thing to note.
The second thing to note is that, yes, this
is carnage, but Somalis have been bleeding
slowly to death in what professor Michael
Watts calls “silent violence” over the
last two-and-a-half decades or so.
So, yeah, the concentration of the death in
a small period of time in one place is horrific,
but death of this kind has been taking place
among the population by terrorists and by
African Union forces over the last decade
or so.
So we should not be really surprised at this,
but we should take stock of the sober nature
of the calamity that’s Somalia.
And then the final thing I would like to say
is this, that the United States government
and the European Union, who support AMISOM,
the African Union force in Somalia, populated
by Ugandans, Ethiopians, Kenyans, Djiboutians
and whatnot, they spend a billion-and-a-half
dollars a year on that force.
And that force is a conventional military
force that’s placed, holed in, in locations
outside and inside Mogadishu.
If they were to spend a quarter of that sum
of money on developing a Somali security force
that’s mobile, that it can engage in guerrilla
tactics and go after al-Shabab, this kind
of a carnage would have been easily sort of
avoided, and the people would have been saved.
I don’t think the international community
is serious about this.
I don’t think they are interested in helping
the Somali people.
I think they are more interested in containing
the Somali problem, as they call it, in Somalia,
rather than claiming that they are nurturing
the development of peace and democracy in
that country.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Abdi Samatar, I wanted
to ask you about that African Union force.
And specifically, what are the interests of—because
they’re basically functioning as a proxy
force for the United States and the European
Union, that’s bankrolling them.
What are the interests of specifically Ethiopia
and Kenya in the ongoing military operations
in Somalia?
ABDI SAMATAR: Well, let’s start with Kenya.
Kenya invaded southern Somalia in 2011.
The claim was that al-Shabab was damaging
its economy because of a number of hostage
takings along the Indian Ocean coast, the
high tourist area of Kenya.
Actually, the United States’ sort of reports
from both the embassy and the Secret Service—I
mean, the CIA, demonstrated that Kenya had
this lust to occupy parts of Somalia long
before those two incidents took place in 2010
and 2011.
So, both Kenya and Ethiopia are interested
to making sure Somalia never really comes
back as a country and as a state that can
challenge them in any way or sense.
So, there’s a—you have a problem here.
Why would the African Union allow two countries
who are neighbors, who have conflict of interest,
to engage in Somalia?
For instance, the Ethiopians control much
of the southwest part of the country, and
the Somali forces cannot really go there.
They are dominated by the Ethiopians.
And the Ethiopians and the Kenyans are nurturing
what I consider to be tribal fiefdoms, much
like apartheid and sort of bantustans, such
that the central government never gains full
authority across the country so that peace
and order can be restored.
So, the United States is an ally of the Ethiopians.
That’s where we use our drones to bomb places
in the region.
The Kenyans are close allies of the United
Kingdom and the European Union.
So, the question is really—Somalia is not
the issue for them to save.
It’s about sort of making sure Kenya and
Ethiopia are doing what they do in the region
in order to support the United States and
the European Union.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to break and then
come back to this discussion.
Our guests are Abdi Samatar, who is a Somali
scholar and writer; Amanda Sperber is with
us from Nairobi, Kenya, freelance journalist
who splits her time between Nairobi and Mogadishu,
in Somalia.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back in a minute.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: That is “Somalia,” by Somali-Canadian
musician K’naan.
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
In Somalia in August, U.S. soldiers and Somali
troops carried out a raid in which 10 people
were shot dead, including three children,
in a village near the capital Mogadishu.
Local lawmakers say the victims were farmers.
Now, the most recent attack was the attack
that took place on Saturday of over 300 people.
But let’s go back to this August attack,
the eyewitness then.
MUQTAR MOAALIM ABDI: [translated] American
forces attacked us in our farms and killed
these people, including children.
Those killed were farmers who were innocent,
and not al-Shabab fighters.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re still joined by Abdi
Samatar, who is a Somali scholar and writer,
and Amanda Sperber, freelance journalist who
splits her time between Nairobi, Kenya, and
Mogadishu, Somalia.
Amanda, can you talk about the response in
Somalia when President Trump announced that
he was activating forces there?
Explain what those forces were.
AMANDA SPERBER: Well, I think President Trump
first made an announcement that he was activating
offensive drone strikes.
I believe that was back in March.
And response then was kind of a mixture of
skepticism, because, obviously, America is
not known for successful drone strikes necessarily,
but at the same time, Somalis really revile
al-Shabab.
There’s a sense that they want to move forward.
So I think that there was also really a sense
of hope and, genuinely, appreciation that
they want—you know, like they don’t want
al-Shabab to be the influential force that
it is, so I think that they were—there was
also a level of—a level of hope that this
could turn things around.
But all in all, I mean, that was mixed with
a healthy sense of skepticism, given America’s
reputation in this part of the world.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Amanda, you’ve written
that you were surprised in your visits to
Somalia about the extent of the U.S. presence
there.
Could you talk about that?
AMANDA SPERBER: Sure.
I mean, I think when I went to Somalia, my
understanding was not that the U.S. was leading—was
not that the U.S. was leading the way in the
country.
My sense was that Turkey, the Gulf states
and the United Kingdom were sort of taking
the way.
But upon getting on the ground, it was pretty
clear to me, and made clear both by just the
expats that I spoke to as well as the locals,
that America is kind of at the forefront of
operations and is invested strategically in
Somalia’s security, both in terms of financial
and—both in terms for financial reasons
and security reasons.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to ask Professor Abdi
Samatar about this question, in April, President
Trump signing the directive classifying parts
of Somalia as areas of active hostilities,
meaning the Pentagon now has more power to
carry out airstrikes and ground raids in the
region, the classification also meaning the
Pentagon will have more permission to kill
bystanders.
ABDI SAMATAR: Well, I mean, the president
did sign that, and that’s what it has meant.
But as Amy suggested, we are not known, as
Americans, particularly, I mean, our forces,
to do the kind of surgical targets that can
take terrorists out.
I think if President Trump and his team were
interested in reducing the level of tyranny
and the, if you like, terrorism in the country,
what they would have done is use the Somali
security forces and spend maybe a couple of
hundred million dollars on that rather than
a billion dollars on the operations, and develop
a mobile force that will act as a sort of
a counter-guerrilla tactics—use counter-guerrilla
tactics to go after al-Shabab, without involving
Americans and anybody else, and, in that process,
help Somalis rebuild the social and the sort
of political infrastructure of their country.
What you have, what Trump and his team are
doing is doing their dirty work, as another
scholar wrote in a book a few years back,
and, in the process, not actually helping
the Somali people take care of al-Shabab.
I think Amanda is correct that Somalis revile
al-Shabab, and I think they are capable of
taking care of al-Shabab if they get the kind
of resources they need to be able to go after
them.
So that’s one issue about that matter.
The other issue that needs to be brought to
the table is that the Somali political class,
not so much as the current government cabinet,
but the Somali political class, is a rump,
corrupt bunch of people who are less interested
in their country and in their own people,
and who are more interested in corruption
and looting whatever little resources the
country has, and is remaining in power.
If that political class was on the same page
as the Somali people in getting rid of Shabab,
I am pretty certain the Somali people can
raise enough resources to mobilize sufficient
number of security forces that can drive al-Shabab
into the sea.
Unfortunately, you have two forces: the international
community, who is not interested in helping
Somalis save themselves, and you have a local
political class, who are almost on the same
page.
And in between those two, the folks who are
caught are ordinary people who have paid the
ultimate price in this latest carnage in Mogadishu.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Professor Samatar, the
goal of al-Shabab, if you could talk about
that?
What is the long-term political goal of al-Shabab?
And also, the spread of the U.S. war on terrorism
across sub-Saharan Africa—we had the report
recently of four U.S. servicemen killed in
Niger—could you talk about that, as well?
ABDI SAMATAR: I think the loss of American
lives in the form that took place in Niger
is quite tragic and not necessary.
I think if we—as a government and as a country,
if we were serious—that’s Americans—if
we were serious in developing a mutually beneficial
strategy, mutually beneficial for Americans,
mutually beneficial for Africans, whether
they are Somalis or Nigerians or whatnot,
we will do a very different strategy in which
local people are mobilized to defend themselves,
and we will provide the resources necessary.
So, my thinking is that sort of AFRICOM is
doing the wrong tactics, much like AMISOM
in Somalia is using conventional military
resources and strategy to fight al-Shabab.
So, it’s the wrong strategy, in my opinion.
And the American government—not the American
people, but the American government—is more
interested in this, rather than in helping
the local populations at a lower cost to all
of us.
So that’s the first thing.
If we come back to al-Shabab, al-Shabab controls
much of the rural areas of southern Somalia,
while AMISOM is holed in, in particular locations.
And so, when AMISOM, for instance, moves into
a town, takes over that town, Shabab just
simply melt away into the bush, if you like,
into the tropical bush in Somalia.
The minute AMISOM withdraws, Shabab comes
safely back and controls that territory.
What you need here is a 10,000 to 20,000 Somali
security forces, military and police forces,
that are trained in guerrilla tactics, that
are highly mobile.
And the cost of that will be literally a fraction
of the amount of money the European Union
and the American government is spending on
AMISOM, $1.5 billion.
We can spend less than $200 million and get
the job done and help the Somalis put Humpty
Dumpty back together in a way that’s beneficial
to them.
But that doesn’t seem to be in the gray
matter of those who are running the “war
on terror” in Washington, D.C.
AMY GOODMAN: And I wanted to bring Amanda
Sperber back into conversation around this
latest news about what happened in Niger,
President Donald Trump breaking his silence
Monday over the deaths of the four U.S. Army
Green Berets who died in an ambush in Niger
two weeks ago, saying he would contact the
families of the soldiers, falsely claiming
that President Obama did not reach out to
U.S. troops killed in combat.
Trump’s comments came only after he was
questioned over his silence by reporters during
a news conference at the White House that
he held with Senate Republican Leader Mitch
McConnell.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: The traditional way,
if you look at President Obama and other presidents,
most of them didn’t make calls.
A lot of them didn’t make calls.
I like to call when it’s appropriate, when
I think I’m able to do it.
They have made the ultimate sacrifice.
AMY GOODMAN: Trump’s false claim drew outrage
from former members of the Obama administration,
like Ben Rhodes, his former deputy national
security adviser, who said it was an “outrageous
and disrespectful lie even by Trump standards.”
The four Green Berets killed on a joint patrol
with Nigerian troops on October 4th, as President
Trump gave wide latitude to his generals in
AFRICOM to unilaterally pursue militants across
much of Africa.
The four are Staff Sergeant Bryan Black, Staff
Sergeant Jeremiah Johnson, Staff Sergeant
Dustin Wright, Sergeant La David Johnson,
whose body was reportedly left behind for
48 hours before it was recovered.
Can you talk about what you understand took
place and what they were doing in Niger?
AMANDA SPERBER: From my understanding, the
American Special Forces were embedded with
Nigerian troops in a remote, extremely remote,
scrubby western part of Niger, conducting
an operation.
My understanding is that they were ambushed.
And at that point, the four men were killed.
As far as I can tell, I was—as a journalist
based in Africa, something that I noticed
was, I was surprised that there were so many
Americans surprised about the U.S. presence
in West Africa.
That’s something we’ve been expanding
for some time.
We have a drone base set up in Niger, as well.
And the American presence on the continent,
in general, is wildly underreported and misunderstood.
AMY GOODMAN: A final comment, Professor Samatar,
on Niger and Somalia and the connection we
should see?
In the U.S. media, far more attention is being
paid to, of course, the four U.S. Special
Forces soldiers dead than the more than 300
people dead in Somalia.
ABDI SAMATAR: I think it’s really quite
tragic that a strategy run from Washington,
D.C., and from the European headquarters in
Brussels pays so little attention when to—over
300 people are killed, massacred, and another
500 people are struggling for their lives,
and that very little support comes from the
United States and the European Union to help
the Somali government clean up this, help
the people who have been injured or people
who have lost their parents or their children.
By contrast, the Turkish government, literally
immediately, as the explosions took place,
sent a military plane with doctors and whatnot.
Even the small country of Djibouti did something
like that.
So, the contrast between the bravado about
fighting terrorism and supporting the local
people who have become the victims of such
terror is quite telling about what our agenda
and strategy is in that part of the world.
AMY GOODMAN: We want to thank you both for
being with us.
Abdi Samatar is a Somoli scholar and writer,
a professor of the Department of Geography,
Environment & Society at the University of
Minnesota.
And Amanda Sperber, joining us from Nairobi,
Kenya, a freelance journalist who splits her
time between Nairobi and Mogadishu, Somalia.
When we come back, a lot is being said of
the “Me Too” campaign, as women post their
sexual harassment and assault and rape experiences
online.
But, overall, it’s being attributed to the
wrong person.
We have the originator of that campaign in
our studio.
Stay with us.
