AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
the War and Peace report, I’m Amy Goodman
with Juan Gonzalez.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I’m Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
It was 15 years ago today when the U.S. invaded
Iraq on the false pretext that Iraqi President
Saddam Hussein was hiding weapons of mass
destruction.
The attack came despite worldwide protest
and the lack of authorization from the United
Nations Security Council.
At around 5:30 a.m. in Baghdad on March 20th,
2003, air raid sirens were heard as the U.S.
invasion began.
Within the hour, President George W. Bush
gave a nationally televised speech from the
Oval Office announcing the war had begun.
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: American and coalition
forces are in the early stages of military
operations to disarm Iraq, to free its people
and to defend the world from grave danger.
AMY GOODMAN: Six weeks later, on May 1st,
2003, President Bush landed on the deck of
the USS Abraham Lincoln off the coast of San
Diego and declared the end of major combat.
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: My fellow Americans,
major combat operations in Iraq have ended.
In the battle of Iraq, the United States and
our allies have prevailed.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, the fighting has yet
to end, and the death toll may never be known.
Conservative estimates put the Iraqi civilian
death toll at 200,000.
But some counts range as high as 2 million.
In 2006, the British medical journal Lancet
estimated 600,000 Iraqis died in just the
first 40 months of the war.
The U.S. has also lost about 4,500 soldiers
in Iraq and some more than 22,000 wounded.
Just last week, seven U.S. servicemembers
died in a helicopter crash in western Iraq
near the Syrian border.
The war in Iraq has also destabilized much
of the Middle East.
Former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi
Annan and others have directly blamed the
U.S. invasion of Iraq for the rise of ISIS.
AMY GOODMAN: To talk more about the 15th anniversary
of the U.S. invasion of Iraq, we’re joined
by three guests.
Zahra Ali is a French-Iraqi sociology professor
here in the United States at Rutgers University.
Her forthcoming book is titled Women and Gender
in Iraq: Between Nation-Building and Fragmentation.
Ali grew up in France.
Her parents were Iraqi political exiles.
Matt Howard is co-director of About Face:
Veterans Against the War, the organization
formerly known as Iraq Veterans Against the
War.
He served in Iraq once in 2004, again in 2005.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Professor Ali, let’s begin with you.
Fifteen years ago today, the U.S. invaded
Iraq.
Talk about what happened then and the repercussions
today.
ZAHRA ALI: I mean, first of all, I would like
to say, you know, that as a daughter of an
Iraqi political exile family, who grew up
in France, I refuse—I was 16 years old at
the time of the war, and I refuse this false
dilemma: Either you oppose the regime, either
you oppose the war.
You know, I opposed the regime, and we had
to flee Iraq because of the authoritarian
regime, and also I got involved in the antiwar
movement in France.
And also, we have to name the war.
We have to name it as, you know, a criminal
war.
And we have to define it as, you know, the
very operation of the destruction of Iraq
as a functioning state and society.
And this operation has started before 2003,
has started in ’91.
I mean, if we talk about U.S. interferences
in the region, and in Iraq, in particular,
we can go back to the ’60s.
But at least for this specific operation,
we have to talk about ’91, the U.S.-led
coalition bombing, a criminal bombing, devastating
bombings, of Iraq, that were described as,
you know, surgical strikes, but that targeted
water and electricity supplies, bridges, schools,
hospitals, and left the country in a humanitarian
crisis.
And then, after this terrible situation, the
imposition of the U.N. sanctions, you know,
that were terrible for the Iraqi population
and that were very much initiated and pushed
by the U.S. administration of the time.
So, a country that needed to be reconstructed
was plunged into a deep humanitarian crisis
that destroyed its middle class, weakened,
to an extreme level, its state institutions
and infrastructure.
So, we had, before the sanction, a free and
strong education system, a good healthcare
system—so, a functioning state.
And then, so this is the situation, you know,
that characterized Iraq in 2003, when the
invasion happened.
So, the Iraqi society had already been brutalized
by decades of wars and by the normalization
of political violence, of course, you know,
the repression of all the different uprising
of the population in the north and in the
south, and social, economic and humanitarian
crisis.
And I want to say that, you know, the U.S.
invasion exacerbated the situation, this crisis,
to its extreme, first of all, in destroying
what was left of the state, its institutions
and services that provide basic human needs
to the society, that makes a functioning society—so,
access to running water, electricity, a welfare
state.
And it was done through what was called the
de-Baathification campaign, so that disbanded
the army and part of the administrative basis
of the regime.
And also, something that is very important
and that we have to, you know, remind ourselves,
to understand what is going on today—you
know, the rise of ISIS, etc.—is that the
U.S. administration created a political system
based on what I call in my research ethno-sectarian
quota.
In other words, this is to say that the U.S.
administration has institutionalized racism
in Iraq.
So it has created a political regime that
relies on communal-based identity.
So, in Iraq, in 2003—since 2003, you are
not just a political leader defined by your
belief, your political beliefs, or as—I
don’t know—a communist, a nationalist,
an Islamist.
You are an Arab political leader, a Kurdish
political leader, a Sunni, a Shia or Christian
political leader.
And this really is at the core of what, you
know, provoked the social, ethnic and sectarian
fragmentation and the sectarian war in the
country.
As well, we have to say that the U.S. administration
brought to power a political elite that, you
know, had mainly lived in exile since—for
example, for some of them, since the ’80s,
so very much disconnected with the realities
on the ground.
And even for those political exiles who had
some legitimacy, some political legitimacy,
inside the country, I mean, they have less
legitimacy, because they have proved to be
extremely sectarian, extremely conservative
and extremely corrupted, as well.
So—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, if we can, I’d like
to bring in Sami Rasouli, who is the founder
and director of the Muslim Peacemaker Teams
in Iraq.
He lives in the Iraqi city of Najaf.
And he moved back to Iraq in 2004, after living
abroad for nearly 30 years.
He left Iraq in the late 1970s and eventually
moved to the United States and settled down
in Minneapolis.
Welcome back to Democracy Now!
Could you talk about your thoughts now, 15
years after President Bush declared “mission
accomplished,” what the situation in Iraq
is today?
SAMI RASOULI: Thank you for having me on your
[inaudible] show.
Juan, greetings from Iraq.
And again, 15 years—15 years, and the immeasurable
tragedy continues to unfold, while disasters
and adversity keeps trapping us under things,
asking whether we have learned anything from
that tragedy.
Well, George Bush was one of the worst presidents,
but yet, today, some people think what we
have currently is really bad, and George Bush,
in comparison, better.
So, Iraq entered in a tunnel in 2003 with
no light at the end, from the invasion to
occupation to sectarianism, then terrorism,
ISIS, and we should not forget about Iranian
expansion in Iraq.
While just recently some partial solution
the Kurds and Arabs reached, otherwise we’ve
gone in another tunnel of conflict between
the north and the south.
We do know Iraq is right now going in a decrease
of education level, healthcare quality.
Security, the worst in the world, Iraq is
considered, because borders are widely open.
The Iraqi Army is not yet capable to keep
Iraq safe.
There are many military bases, have been built
by the U.S.
And it’s still building, increasing, from,
I believe, last year seven, now we have about
12.
So, unfortunately, Iraqi people are paying
heavily a price.
But we’re not going to continue to cry about
what’s going on.
Our Muslim Peacemaker Teams been working since
2005 now in a form of outreach and advocacy
for peace and promoting the principles of
peacebuilding throughout the country between
all factions, regardless whether they are
Kurds, Arabs, Sunni, Shia, Muslims or Christians.
Right now, we are hosting two Americans—from
New Jersey, Mr. Mettler [phon.], and from
Wisconsin, Miss Strobel [phon.]—who are
helping in a project that MPT, Muslim Peacemaker
Teams, started last October, by inviting Americans
to meet Iraqis.
And the project is called English for Reconciliation.
I started this school, as I said, about six
months ago, trying to bring from so-called
infidels from the West to meet so-called terrorists
in the east of Iraq mainly, according to the
American mainstream media, to meet around
a roundtable, break bread together, seeing
the eyes.
And they found out nothing of that nonsense
is true.
They are nothing but brother and sister, meeting,
belonging to the same human race, and striking
agreement by establishing lasting friendship
that’s based on respect, mutual understanding
and trust, because—
AMY GOODMAN: Sami, we’re having a little
under—we are having a little trouble understanding
you, but I want to thank you for being with
us, from Najaf, Iraq.
Sami Rasouli was an institution in Minneapolis,
had Sinbad’s restaurant, was on the cover
of Minneapolis magazine, but left everything
to return to his country at the height of
the war, to be with his countrymen and women
and family.
Sami Rasouli, founder of Muslim Peacemaker
Teams in Iraq, speaking to us on this 15th
anniversary of the U.S. invasion.
When we come back, we’ll continue with our
guests, Zahra Ali, who is a sociologist, a
professor at Rutgers, and Matt Howard of About
Face: Veterans Against the War, served in
Iraq in 2004 and ’05.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Is It for Freedom?” by Sara
Thomsen.
In that piece, you hear Medea Benjamin of
CodePink interrupting Congress, protesting
the war.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González, as
we continue our look at the 15th anniversary
of the U.S. invasion of Iraq.
We’re joined here in New York by two guests.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Zahra Ali is a sociology professor
at Rutgers University.
Her forthcoming book is titled Women and Gender
in Iraq: Between Nation-Building and Fragmentation.
She grew up in France.
Her parents were Iraqi political exiles.
We’re also joined by Matt Howard, a co-director
of About Face: Veterans Against the War, the
organization formerly known as Iraq Veterans
Against the War.
He served in Iraq once in 2004, then again
in 2005.
I’d like to begin with Matt.
Talk about your first deployment, your sense
at the time of what the Iraq War was about,
and your own evolution in terms of your understanding
of the war.
MATT HOWARD: Certainly.
Yeah, so, when I was—well, first off, I
watched the invasion from Okinawa, Japan,
where I was stationed at the time, and had
a real kind of gnawing sense of dread that
we were making a decision we could never step
back from.
A year later, I was stationed in Iraq outside
of Fallujah in support of helicopters that
were doing casualty evacuation.
And I think an experience that really crystallized
for me where I really went down a path of
challenging everything that had been told
to me was when we were guarding Iraqi men
who were laborers that were coming onto our
forward operating base, who basically spelled
out everything Zahra said, that their lives
had measurably—the quality of life had taken
a dramatic hit, and that everything that we
were being told, in terms of our, you know,
hearts and minds and how we were going to
make this place better, was as far from the
truth as could possibly be.
AMY GOODMAN: Why did you end up going to Iraq?
Where did you grow up?
MATT HOWARD: I grew up in Portland, Oregon.
So, I joined the Marine Corps when I was 17,
so before I finished high school.
And that was before September 11th.
And I deployed—or I went to boot camp about
a month after September 11th.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, you know, one of the—the
casualty numbers for Iraq, given the length
of the war, don’t appear, on the American
side, to have been that great: 4,500 soldiers.
But when you think of the 22,000, more than
22,000, who were injured, as well, many of
those soldiers injured would have, in previous
wars, died but not for the miracle of science
and medicine.
MATT HOWARD: Certainly.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: But many have survived with
lifelong injuries, of amputated limbs and
traumatic shock and brain damage.
Can you talk about the impact on the soldiers
for this constant warfare, because, obviously,
they never were able to win the hearts and
minds of the Iraqi people?
MATT HOWARD: Yeah.
I mean, I think that there’s something that
we talk about that’s a hallmark of this
war, which is both the way that deployments
occur many times for some folks, sometimes
as many as 10 times, and also the kind of
invisible wounds of the war, as you were mentioning,
whether that’s post-traumatic stress, traumatic
brain injury or military sexual trauma, that
are often not tallied in the kind of figures
that we have for these things.
And just want to make it clear that if that
goes to—if that goes for the military, that
very definitely goes for the Iraqi civilians
that are continuing to, you know, deal with
the after-effects of this war.
I think that, you know, one thing that we’ve
noticed is just that people are also coming
home to an underfunded VA and a VA that’s
under attack now by the Trump administration,
that there is a real mission to privatize
it.
So, all of this kind of rhetoric of taking
care of our troops is—it very quickly diminishes,
depending on people’s political priorities.
AMY GOODMAN: When did you make your about-face,
Matt?
MATT HOWARD: Good question.
I mean, it could have been in a few different
places.
I think that—I joined About Face when it
was IVAW, in 2008, so about a year after I
came home.
And it was actually an antiwar protest.
There was the Winter soldier hearings.
And a friend of mine that I—
AMY GOODMAN: The Winter Soldier hearings outside
of Maryland.
MATT HOWARD: Absolutely.
AMY GOODMAN: If you could explain what they
were?
MATT HOWARD: Yes, of course.
So, the Winter Soldier hearings were a moment
when our community got together to really
testify to the costs of war, both in Afghanistan
and Iraq, and to alert the American people
what was being done in their name.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Professor Ali, I’d
like to ask you, in the terms of the costs
of war, last week we had a segment on the
Vietnam War where we talked about the long-lasting
damage in Vietnam from Agent Orange, from
the birth defects that occurred as a result
of the Agent Orange, the herbicide spraying
in Vietnam.
What about this whole issue of depleted uranium
and the impact on the environment—
ZAHRA ALI: Yeah.
Thank you for asking that.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: —of Iraq, and the use of
the weapons of the U.S. troops in Iraq, that
the civilian population is still dealing with?
ZAHRA ALI: Yeah, yeah.
Thank you so much for asking that.
And thank you, as well.
Yes, I mean, you mentioned Fallujah, and it’s,
I mean, now known that depleted uranium was
used in Fallujah.
And, you know, it was a criminal war.
It was a dirty war, as well.
AMY GOODMAN: And white phosphorus.
ZAHRA ALI: Yeah.
And the effect for the Iraqi population, in
Fallujah and elsewhere, is actually—you
know, it goes even through generations, you
know, when you think of the use of all the
chemicals, etc.
And we are still—I mean, perhaps, you know,
U.S. soldiers can go back to their country,
but we are still in the middle of the war.
We live, you know, the war.
And I don’t know any Iraqi household, including
my household, that hasn’t been directly
affected by a form of violence, you know,
that hasn’t witnessed a car explosion, that
hasn’t lost a member of their family.
I mean, it’s the current reality.
And now, when you think about the invasion
of ISIS and the very militarization of the
society and the militarization of the public
spaces—so, for example, if you take Baghdad,
the capital of Iraq, I mean, we have to have
this image in mind when we talk about it,
is the capital is divided, fragmented by checkpoints
and concrete walls, you know, that divide
the neighborhoods according to sectarian,
religious, ethnic belongings.
So, even—and I talk about it when I talk
about women and human rights, in general,
in my research in Iraq.
When you want to circulate in Baghdad, you
have to, every kilometer, you know, pass through
an armed male soldier, you know, a checkpoint.
So, even the population of Baghdad, 65 percent
of the population of Baghdad itself, you know,
has been displaced, either in Baghdad or in
Iraq or outside Iraq.
AMY GOODMAN: Professor Ali, you write in your
Washington Post piece about a proposed constitutional
amendment, which would have a massive effect
on women.
ZAHRA ALI: Yeah.
So, it’s not a constitutional amendment,
because, actually, the Article 41 is in the
Constitution.
So, what happened is that, since 2003, I mean,
there have been several attempts made by sectarian,
conservative, Islamist parties, that came
to power with the U.S. Army, to question,
along sectarian line, the very basis of women’s
legal rights, expressed and enacted in what
is called the personal status code, so the
family law, you know, that gathers all laws
and legislations related to marriage, divorce,
inheritance, custody—so, most of women’s
legal rights.
And so, the very—so, this personal status
code was adopted at the end of the ’50s,
in 1959, in Iraq.
And it’s very important to recall that it’s
really the produce of the political culture
of the time, that was dominated by the anti-imperialist
left.
The Iraqi personal status code, at the time,
was one of the most progressive personal status
codes in the region, right?
And it was structured by two things: the participation
of women’s rights activists in its drafting—somebody
like Naziha al-Dulaimi, the first Iraqi and
Arab women’s minister, you know, participated
to its drafting.
And the second dimension, that is very important
to understand what is going on now, is that
it gathered—it still gathers a Sunni and
Shia, like, Muslim jurisprudence, so it has
a unifying dimension.
And this is, I think, the political legacy
that is being questioned since 2003.
So, we had it with the Decree 137.
Then, now we have it in the Article 41.
But thanks to feminists, you know, women’s
rights, civil society mobilization, the Article
41 is still not implemented.
But still, under the name of this article,
we had so many, you know, low proposition
made by conservative, sectarian, Islamist
parties that are in power since 2003—the
Ja’fari law, for example, in 2014.
And just a few months ago—
AMY GOODMAN: And the Ja’fari law is?
ZAHRA ALI: The Ja’fari law is a proposition,
so that would, so, allow the existence of
a family law base on the Ja’fari madhhab,
so school of law.
And among the things that are problematic
and that represent, you know, a regressive
thing for women’s rights is that it allows
very informal forms of unions, in which women
do not have legal protections.
It can, if ever implemented, allow—like
lower the age of marriage as early as 9 years
old for girls.
So, this is the kind of things.
You know, this is the kind of questioning
of women’s legal rights that is made.
But I also want to make a point here, is that
we tend to approach women’s rights in a
very, I think, simplistic manner, as if it
was a very abstract thing, just as democracy.
It’s a value, whatever.
No, it is very concrete stuff, when we talk
about democracy or the right to vote.
And if you think of the right to vote, that
is, of course, essential for women and all
citizens, you also have to have the structural
context that allow people to go to the voting
site without being scared of being shot or
kidnapped, right?
And you have, for women, to have, you know,
a functioning state institution, childcare,
healthcare, education, access to the job market.
And as well, you know, when we talk about
the post-2003 situation, all the militarization
had already started under the regime with
the different wars in the ’80s, but now
we have really rich and extreme.
So militarization really defines, you know,
gender norms and relations towards masculinist
ways of defining malehood, and that idea that
women need protection and men are the protector
of women.
And these are very important dimensions to
keep in mind.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I wanted to turn to Matt,
to ask you about the—many people, as we’ve
mentioned, have blamed, especially in the
latter period of this U.S. intervention in
Iraq, the rise of ISIS as a direct result
of the U.S. invasion, and especially of the
attempt of the initial administrators of Iraq,
the coalition, in terms of rooting out all
of the Baathist leaders throughout the entire
governmental structure and moving them from
civil service, dismantling the military, and
basically destroying the existing institutions
of Iraq.
MATT HOWARD: Right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I’m wondering what—your
thoughts about that?
MATT HOWARD: Yeah.
I mean, I think that—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And what you saw directly?
MATT HOWARD: Sure.
I mean, I was there in 2004 and 2005.
And, obviously, the rise and emergence of
ISIS is significantly further down the line.
But I think that it’s pretty clear that
all blame that can be laid to is that the
U.S. government and U.S. militaries really
can be laid into its lap around the emergence
of ISIS.
And, you know, part of that is just that—for
the pure, simple fact that the leadership
met each other in coalition prison-run facilities.
They were—had essentially cut their teeth
during the occupation of Iraq, were fighting
U.S. forces, occupiers there, and that—you
know, and were politicized and found themselves,
obviously, in positions in Syria and other
places.
I think that, if anything, it points to the
U.S.'s role in destabilizing the region, in
the after-effects that we're seeing right
now in throughout—you know, throughout the
Middle East and Central Asia.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to turn to Tony Blair—right?—October
2015, the former British prime minister, speaking
to Fareed Zakaria on CNN, saying there were,
quote, “elements of truth” to the claim
that removing Saddam Hussein played a part
in the creation of ISIS.
TONY BLAIR: You can’t say that those of
us who removed Saddam in 2003 bear no responsibility
for the situation in 2015.
But it’s important also to realize, one,
that the Arab Spring, which began in 2011,
would also have had its impact on Iraq today,
and, two, ISIS actually came to prominence
from a base in Syria and not in Iraq.
AMY GOODMAN: And to the other world leader
responsible for the U.S. invasion.
That was former President George W. Bush.
In 2010, in his first major interview since
leaving the presidency, Bush spoke to NBC’s
Matt Lauer, before he was fired, about the
Iraq War.
MATT LAUER: So, by the time you gave the order
to start military operations in Iraq, did
you personally have any doubt, any shred of
doubt, about that intelligence?
GEORGE W. BUSH: No, I didn’t.
I really didn’t.
MATT LAUER: Not everybody thought you should
go to war, though.
There were dissenters.
GEORGE W. BUSH: Of course there were.
MATT LAUER: You know, there were—did you
filter them out?
GEORGE W. BUSH: I was a dissent—I was a
dissenting voice.
I didn’t want to use force.
MATT LAUER: Your words: “No one was more
sickened or angry than I was when we didn’t
find weapons of mass destruction.”
You still have a sickening feeling—
GEORGE W. BUSH: I do.
MATT LAUER: —when you think about it.
GEORGE W. BUSH: I do.
MATT LAUER: Was there ever any consideration
of apologizing to the American people?
GEORGE W. BUSH: I mean, apologizing would
basically say the decision was a wrong decision,
and I don’t believe it was a wrong decision.
MATT LAUER: If you knew then—
GEORGE W. BUSH: Yeah.
MATT LAUER: —what you know now—
GEORGE W. BUSH: That’s right.
MATT LAUER: —you would still go to war in
Iraq?
GEORGE W. BUSH: I, first of all, didn’t
have that luxury.
You just don’t have the luxury when you’re
president.
I will say, definitely, the world is better
off without Saddam Hussein in power, as are
25 million people who now have a chance to
live in freedom.
AMY GOODMAN: “As are 25 million people who
now have a chance to live in freedom.”
That’s former President George Bush speaking
in 2010.
Zahra Ali, you return home to Iraq a couple
times a year.
Your parents, political dissenters.
Interesting that George Bush described himself
as a dissenter.
Your response, both to Bush and to Blair?
ZAHRA ALI: Well, I mean, again, you know,
this terminology, all this use of this vocabulary,
in the U.K., in the U.S., you know, “It
was a mistake,” whatever.
It was a crime.
Come on.
It’s a criminal war, and these people, you
know, have to be judged for their crimes,
right?
But also, you know, I want to say something
about this narrative about democracy, etc.,
is that the post-2003 Iraqi regime has proven
to be very anti-democratic.
And when we think of the context of the invasion
of ISIS and, you know, what happened around
it, we have also to talk about the fact that
in Iraq, despite the very terrible situation,
we do have very strong social movements.
We do have, you know, citizens—more recently,
you know, since 2015, we have like very strong
grassroots, popular movements that, you know,
question the very legitimacy of the post-2003
regime, women’s rights activists, you know,
involved in that movement.
But the situation is that, in a way that is
kind of comparable to here, is that this “war
on terror” narrative is really used to justify
any kind of repression, any kind of silencing,
silencing of, you know, radical political
activism in the country, right?
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we want to thank you both
for being with us, Matt Howard of About Face:
Veterans Against the War, and also Zahra Ali,
who is a sociology professor at Rutgers, a
French-Iraqi woman who is writing a book right
now on Iraqi women.
ZAHRA ALI: And feminist activists.
AMY GOODMAN: Her forthcoming book—and feminist
activists—Women and Gender in Iraq: Between
Nation-Building and Fragmentation.
Zahra Ali grew up in France, her parents Iraqi
political exiles.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, what has happened to the
undocumented workers who are rebuilding Houston?
Undocumented and unpaid.
Our own Democracy Now!’s Renée Feltz will
bring us a report.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Yellow Ribbon,” by Emily
Yates, a member of Iraq Veterans Against the
War.
She says she wrote the song after speaking
with fellow veterans about the yellow ribbon
magnets people put on their cars.
Yates was deployed twice to Iraq, where she
served in the 3rd Infantry Division as an
Army public affairs specialist from 2002 to
2008.
