AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Part 2 of our coverage
of the Stephon Clark police killing in Sacramento,
California.
The family of Stephon Clark is holding his
funeral today, as protests continue against
the police shooting that killed the unarmed
African-American father of two in his grandmother’s
backyard.
Stephon was shot by Sacramento police 20 times
on March 18th.
Police first claimed he was holding a gun.
They later admitted they only found his cellphone
near his body.
This is Stephon Clark’s grandmother, Sequita
Thompson, speaking at a powerful news conference
Monday.
SEQUITA THOMPSON: My grandson was 23 years
old.
And then, now my great-grandbabies don’t
have their daddy, because they didn’t even
stop.
Why didn’t you just shoot him in the arm,
shoot him in the leg, send the dogs, send
a taser?
Why?
Why?
You all didn’t have to do that.
You all didn’t have to—over a cellphone.
I just want justice for my grandson, for my
daughter, my poor babies.
They’re in so much pain.
She’s in pain, and the brothers.
He’s got two brothers.
Justice.
I want justice for my baby!
I want justice for Stephon Clark!
Please, give us justice!
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Stephon Clark’s grandmother,
Sequita Thompson.This is California’s Attorney
General Xavier Becerra speaking on Tuesday.
ATTORNEY GENERAL XAVIER BECERRA: The California
Department of Justice will now step in and
provide independent oversight of this investigation
into the shooting of Stephon Clark.
My team and I at the California Department
of Justice will do everything in our power
to ensure that this investigation is fair,
thorough and impartial.
I also want to thank and respect Chief Hahn
for agreeing that the California Department
of Justice’s involvement in this matter
will extend to include a review of the policing
policies, procedures and practices at the
Sacramento Police Department.
AMY GOODMAN: As protests continue over Stephon
Clark’s killing, his funeral is scheduled
to take place today.
We’ll go now to Sacramento, California,
to continue our conversation with Berry Accius,
founder of Voice of the Youth in Sacramento.
Berry, in Part 1 of this conversation, we
talked about what you understood happened
on that day.
But describe the neighborhood, why at this
point, as the family reconstructs what happened,
where Stephon was, and how these police officers
came to kill him in a hail of 20 bullets.
BERRY ACCIUS: Well, the unfortunate thing
about this community, though it’s resilient
and rich in spirit, there’s no opportunity
there.
There’s nothing.
There’s nothing that you can grab.
I mean, you have a liquor store.
You have a bunch of churches.
We have about 20 churches on one street.
And you don’t have one thing that’s culturally
relevant as far as the majority of that community,
black residents.
It has nothing that resonates, except a major
community center, which is decent.
But across the freeway, you have a place called
Delta Shores that’s striving, that shows
opportunity.
So, in that moment, when you’re looking
at this place and how dark it was, the bad
lighting in this community, the fact that
individuals, the police officers, who know
that they’re coming into a neighborhood
that’s overly policed and a neighborhood
that has some kind of different criminal activity,
it was like they just was headhunting.
And the fact that this young man was gunned
down—and we still don’t really know if
he was this alleged suspect.
We still don’t really know what he allegedly
did to be assassinated.
It’s just mind-boggling that this new police
regime, that a lot of us pushed for, the policies
that we have kind of influenced for the city
council to embark on this police so things
like this wouldn’t happen, it wasn’t used.
My thing is: Why wasn’t nonlethal weapons
used at this point?
Why didn’t you guys clearly say that we
were the police?
There was no clear recognition of—for Stephon
to recognize that this was the police.
It was “Hands up!
Gun!
Gun!” in a few seconds.
I can’t understand that.
Right now, I’m going to show you something.
I have a cellphone.
I’m going to point this cellphone right
at you.
Does this look like a gun?
And if you can answer that question, logically,
you tell me what the police saw, really, and
what they didn’t see.
So, it just comes for so many rooms of error.
But again, the fact that they used excessive
force when it was unnecessary, the fact that
they didn’t call backup, the fact that they
didn’t have the helicopter shine that bright
light that a lot of us young black males who
have ran from the police know, and the fact
that they lied and made it seem like this
young man was attacking them, it all just
continues to paint this picture, that’s
happened across the nation, how police conduct
themselves when dealing with black males or
black females in America.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Berry, compare this to,
for example, Nikolas Cruz, the mass shooter
in Florida.
Compare this to Dylann Storm Roof, when he
was caught, who gunned down the parishioners
at the Mother Emanuel Church, and how he was
dealt with.
BERRY ACCIUS: Oh, if that’s a serious question,
white privilege matters.
See, here in America, black people have to
compromise way too much.
We have to compromise for the fact that if
we had Skittles in our hand, an Arizona, if
we have a cellphone, if we’re playing our
music too loud, if we’re having a play toy
gun in our hand, if we’re walking around
with a hoodie.
We have to compromise.
It’s always the issue of, “Well, you should
have did.”
Well, Stephon Clark shouldn’t have ran.
Stephon Clark was not running.
He was walking to his grandparents’ house.
If he was running from the police, why would
he stop at his grandparents’ house to try
to get inside?
So, understand that with black people, living
in America, all we have to do, and all we’ve
been doing, is compromising.
And every time we ask for justice, it’s
almost dead cries on dead ears.
And when you look at these cases, you had
a white male who killed 17 people.
Seventeen people.
He walks out unblemished, in jail, and his
privilege shows, where now you have a national
movement talking about gun violence.
Well, here in Sacramento, we’ve been arguing,
yelling from the sky, about gun violence here,
and until Stephon Clark died.
Now Sacramento and the world is listening
to the cries of the people.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to talk about the various
levels of activism.
On Sunday night at a game between the Boston
Celtics and the Sacramento Kings, the NBA
players wore shirts featuring Stephon Clark’s
name and the words “Accountability.
We Are One.”
The players also pre-recorded a video that
played on the jumbotron inside the stadium
ahead of tip-off.
AL HORFORD: We will not shut up and dribble.
KOSTA KOUFOS: This is bigger than basketball.
ZACH RANDOLPH: Change can be uncomfortable.
MARCUS MORRIS: Change is necessary.
SEMI OJELEYE: We need to talk.
SHANE LARKIN: We need to act.
JUSTIN JACKSON: We matter.
GREG MONROE: We must unite.
GARRETT TEMPLE: Say his name.
JAYLEN BROWN: Stephon Clark.
VINCE CARTER: Stephon Clark.
We must unite.
AMY GOODMAN: Last week in Sacramento, hundreds
of demonstrators chanted “Black Lives Matter”
and shut down an interstate highway to demand
justice for Stephon Clark.
The protest delayed the start of the NBA game
between the Sacramento Kings and the Atlanta
Hawks, as only a fraction of ticket holders
made it into the arena.
Afterwards, team owner Vivek Ranadivé spoke
in solidarity with the protesters.
VIVEK RANADIVÉ: We stand here before you—old,
young, black, white, brown—and we are all
united in our commitment.
We recognize that it’s not just business
as usual, and we are going to work really
hard to bring everybody together to make the
world a better place, starting with our own
community.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry Accius, can you talk about
what the solidarity of the Sacramento Kings
mean to you?
It’s also a site of protest, as protesters
shut down the arena, tried to stop people
from going in, though there is solidarity
expressed from inside by the players.
BERRY ACCIUS: Well, let’s be very clear
that the only reason why that happened is
because we shut down, and we made sure that
there wasn’t going to be business as usual
in Sacramento.
We inconvenienced folks.
Black people have been inconvenienced for
years.
So, what we looked at is, one thing that we
know we can identify with this world of white
supremacy is power, right?
If you affect the money, you now have power.
So what we decided to do is affect the money.
And the funny thing about that story is, I
was actually asked to come talk to the owner,
and the owner asked me, “What would you
like me to say?”
I kind of gave him some notes.
He put it in his own words, and he said, “Is
this good enough?”
I said, “Go ahead.
Shoot it.”
And as I watched and I sat, and then he said
those things, I was moved.
Then I talked to a few players on the Sacramento
Kings: Garrett Temple, Doug Christie and Vince
Carter.
And they were all in, understanding that this
is bigger than basketball, saying to me that
they didn’t even want to play.
But the fact that now we have this national
attention, and now that we also have the Kings,
that want to support this movement, because
they recognize, they see, that people will
go through such lengths to get justice for
unarmed black people that continue to get
murdered in America, that we would risk our
own lives, we would make sure that folks are
uncomfortable, this shows that people are
tired.
People are tired, not just black people.
People are tired of these heinous acts.
People are tired of a certain kind of group
that walks around, that is supposed to protect
and serve, getting away with killing people
unarmed.
So, that move was strategic, but organic at
the same time.
The energy of the people, again, showed that
if we want change, we must have change with
all of us.
So, Sacramento Kings realize it’s going
to take all of us.
But, of course, it had to be—they had to
be persuaded in a little way.
So I feel like a little persuasion helped
us get to where we’re at right now with
them.
AMY GOODMAN: Today is the funeral for Stephon
Clark.
BERRY ACCIUS: Yes, yes.
AMY GOODMAN: This evening, do you have another
protest planned at the Golden 1 arena?
Another game is being played.
BERRY ACCIUS: This is not for play.
So, for folks to think that we’re just playing
around and running to the Golden 1 or going
to places and shutting it down because this
is something that we like to do, nobody on
the street likes doing this.
But nobody on the streets likes being harassed,
and continue to be targeted, continue to see
this abuse nationally.
So, what we’re doing is getting folks who
understand that enough’s enough.
If we are going to talk about equality, we
actually want to speak upon equity.
What is the equity that black people are getting?
Across America, we’re being pushed out.
Our schools are ran down.
Our communities are ran down.
We continue to pack these prison cells.
We continue to be targeted, and we continue
to be criminalized.
We are just taking a stand for America, but
asking Sacramento to be a part of this change.
Sacramento claims to be this progressive city.
So, as you fight for the DREAMers, we’re
just asking to fight for black lives as much
as you fight for anybody else.
And if anybody has an issue with that or is
frustrated that we inconvenienced them from
going to see a basketball game, listen to
this.
You have two young babies, two young boys,
that no longer get to have their father ever.
And it’s not because of his father’s fault.
It’s because the people that say they protect
and serve did not protect him, but gave and
served him his death sentence on the day,
on Sunday night.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry—
BERRY ACCIUS: So, when we want to look at
things in perspective, we have to also look
at the ownership and the accountability that
the society has to have, as a way they’ve
treated black people historically.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry—
BERRY ACCIUS: So this is the end of the road.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry, can you talk about Sacramento’s
district attorney, Anne-Marie Schubert, and
her record in dealing with police shootings?
BERRY ACCIUS: She’s a police protector.
She does nothing for the people.
She protects police.
Simple.
That’s what she does.
She protects police.
That’s her job, not protecting the people.
Her job is protecting the police.
And we will continue to challenge her.
We will continue to make her uncomfortable.
We are doing everything in our power to make
sure she clearly does not get voted back in.
AMY GOODMAN: This isn’t the first high-profile
police shooting of an African-American man
in Sacramento.
Last year, the 2006 shooting of—2016 shooting
of Joseph Mann.
Can you talk about what happened there and
what was promised afterwards?
BERRY ACCIUS: Well, what reforms we had was
we got a new police chief, which was African-American.
They made sure that they got the videotapes
out at a quicker time, process that, and as
well as what we believed that there would
be implementation of, making sure that they
didn’t use lethal weapons, that they would
use nonlethal weapons before they even try
to use the lethal weapons.
And the thing about it, what we asked for
is a stronger police commission, but we got
a police commission with no teeth, with no
subpoena power.
And the fact that our DA continues to hide
behind the fact that she protects the police,
and doesn’t really protect the people, and
doesn’t challenge the police, doesn’t
have police brought up on charges, shows you
a higher degree of where we’re at.
And the simple fact that when we actually
talked about the Joseph Mann case, and we
were looking at it, and the police, Somers
at that particular time, kind of was making
up a story as if this man was grabbing a knife
and attacking police, when the video came
out, it showed a totally different scene.
And so, here we are now.
But make note: In 2014, we were talking about
the same thing.
So this is nothing new.
It was just a national moment with Joseph
Mann, and even a more major moment with Stephon
Clark that we’re in right now.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to go back to the Sacramento
City Council meeting, that moment as people
were protesting, hundreds of people disrupting
the Sacramento City Council, led by Stephon
Clark’s brother, Stevonte Clark, who rushed
into the council chamber and jumped onto the
desk of Mayor Darrell Steinberg.
STEVONTE CLARK: Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
Stephon Clark!
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk, Berry Accius, about
what happened there between the mayor and
Stephon’s mourning brother Stevonte?
BERRY ACCIUS: It’s kind of misleading when
you said “he led us.”
We, as a community, we are all leading this
charge together.
So it’s not one individual or one organization
leading this.
I think it’s a group, a coalition of folks.
His energy, his frustration, his unapologetic
way of expressing himself, is naturally what
a lot of us feel, right?
This was probably the first time that he’s
ever probably came into the City Hall chambers
or even met the mayor, one on one.
A lot of these folks that sit in these districts,
that ask for our vote, don’t even know who
the people that they’re actually serving—right?—who
they’re representing.
So that energy and that frustration, that
anger, is just the sounds of people, right?
This moment isn’t because people decided
to just wake up in the morning and just say,
“Hey, we want to disrupt the City Hall.”
It’s because of excessive force being used.
It’s because police terror is happening
in our city.
It’s because of police brutality.
It’s because of police murder.
So, we shouldn’t even focus on the lens
of what that young man did, but we should
also look at why that young man did what he
did.
Why are we protesting?
That’s the bigger story—why—and the
reason why we got to this point right now.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry, can you talk about the—
BERRY ACCIUS: What could have prevented this
point?
AMY GOODMAN: —coalition of people who are
involved?
We see the video of many women in the City
Council who are wearing T-shirts that say—I
think they say “Build.
Black.”
Can you talk about all the different groups
and the men and women who are involved in
these protests, you yourself the founder of
Voice of the Youth?
BERRY ACCIUS: Build.
Black. is coming out of the ashes of this
anti-blackness here in Sacramento.
Build.
Black. is a bunch of clergy, community organizers,
community leaders, the citizens and community
folks that are tired, and folks that are very
influential in many different places, that
we are now saying that the reason why these
things continue to happen is this anti-blackness
that’s happening throughout America.
And what we want to do, we want to be very
intentional to make sure this never happens
again, by building our own, having our own.
It’s time for black people to take ownership
and accountability of having our own stuff,
building our own black power infrastructure.
So this Build.
Black. is unapologetically saying that we
no longer are going to wait.
We are no longer going to compromise.
We are no longer wanting to be a part of this
white supremacist system.
We are going to build within.
And to be honest with you, the fact that our
ancestors put 400-plus years of work here
in America, we are due that process.
This is our reparations, and we’re coming
for that, right now, as we build black together.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Berry Accius, I want to
thank you for being with us, founder of Voice
of the Youth, a Sacramento community activist.
We will continue to cover the response.
Let me ask you one other question.
The police chief—
BERRY ACCIUS: Yes, ma’am.
AMY GOODMAN: The police chief, Hahn, said
he wanted to investigate, himself, why his
officers shut off the audio of the video cam
after they killed Stephon Clark in a hail
of 20 police bullets.
That was many days ago he said this.
What kind of answers are the community getting
about why not only the shutting off of the
audio happened, but why Stephon was killed?
BERRY ACCIUS: I mean, right now, everything
is a focus on the protesters.
And that has to stop.
I think folks are kind of moving away from
what the real situation is.
And that is, we have a lot of questions that
haven’t been answered.
So, excuse me, the process of them investigating,
hopefully we’ll find out more.
But until then, we will be louder.
We will be louder, and we’ll speak up against
this injustice, because it is in a timely
manner when we ask for transparency, and the
moment that we feel like we’re getting transparency,
here goes cameras, body cameras—body cameras
that the community forced the police to have,
forced the police have, to show us what’s
going on—they turned mute.
So there’s a lot of questions that the community
has, and we don’t believe—actually, we
know that these questions haven’t been getting
answered sufficiently.
AMY GOODMAN: Berry Accius, founder of the
Voice of the Youth and a Sacramento community
activist, thanks so much for joining us.
BERRY ACCIUS: Black power matters!
AMY GOODMAN: To see Part 1 of our conversation,
go to democracynow.org.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Thanks for joining us.
