AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I’m Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We begin today’s show in Puerto Rico, where
three-and-a-half million residents and half
the island’s hospitals still have no electricity
from the power grid, more than a month after
Hurricane Maria.
Over a million people still lack clean drinking
water, and residents say they are suffering
from eye infections and gastrointestinal diseases
as a result of exposure to contaminated water.
More than a third of the island’s sewage
treatment plants are not functioning, and
some 40 percent of residents lack a cellphone
signal.
Meanwhile, the Environmental Protection Agency
has not yet inspected five out of 18 of Puerto
Rico’s toxic waste sites, also known as
Superfund sites.
The official death toll now stands at 49,
with health experts saying the real number
is likely to rise.
AMY GOODMAN: On Monday, FEMA announced more
than $500 million in aid to the island, including
$285 million to help restore electricity and
water services.
The Senate also tentatively approved a $36.5
billion hurricane relief package that includes
aid for Puerto Rico.
A final vote is expected later today before
the measure heads to President Trump.
But first, Republican Senators Jeff Flake
of Arizona and Mike Lee of Utah are demanding
that Puerto Rico be made permanently exempt
from the Jones Act, a 1920 law that has complicated
efforts to send supplies to the hurricane-ravaged
island.
All of this comes as President Trump said
on Thursday his administration deserves a
“10 out of 10” for its response to the
ongoing humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I think we’ve done
a really great job, and we’ve had tremendous
cooperation from the governor.
And we are getting there.
And people are really seeing the effort that’s
been put into Puerto Rico.
It’s been a very, very difficult situation
for many people.
I will say that.
… It hit right through the middle of the
island, right through the middle of Puerto
Rico.
There’s never been anything like that.
I give ourselves a 10.
AMY GOODMAN: Puerto Rico is saddled with a
$74 billion debt and now faces an estimated
$95 billion in storm-related damage.
Many are now questioning what the recovery
effort will look like.
Who will benefit?
Who will be left out?
In a new piece for The Intercept, Puerto Rican
activist Elizabeth Yeampierre and Naomi Klein
write, “Imagine a Puerto Rico Recovery Designed
by Puerto Ricans.”
They write, “[T]he fact that the House-approved
relief package contains $5 billion in loans
for the island, rather than grants, is a special
kind of cruelty.
Because on an island already suffering under
an un-payable $74 billion debt (and another
$49 billion in unfunded pension obligations),
Puerto Ricans understand all too well that
debt is not relief.
On the contrary, it is a potent tool of perpetual
impoverishment and control from which relief
is urgently needed.”
The authors also look at how communities in
Puerto Rico are now working together to achieve
a more just recovery.
For more, we go to Elizabeth Yeampierre.
She’s joining us from Berkeley, California,
executive director of UPROSE and co-chair
of the Climate Justice Alliance.
Welcome to Democracy Now!, Elizabeth.
First describe what’s happening on the ground
in Puerto Rico, what you are most struck by
and what needs to happen.
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Well, thank you for
having me on the show and for keeping a spotlight
on the island.
We’re in touch with activists on the island
on a regular basis, people from Organización
Boricuá, a number of organizations that are
really part of the front-line leadership working
on climate justice issues.
The first thing you hear about is that there’s
tons of food and water that they don’t have
access to, that they can’t make it through
the island because there’s no gasoline,
that there’s also a state of militarization
in Puerto Rico, that there are police officers
coming in from almost every state in the country,
and the military, and that people feel like
they’re being shut down, that they can’t
move around.
People on the island are also working really
closely together, cooking together, sharing
resources, cleaning up, doing the work that’s
necessary so that they can get—they can
get their lives back.
But it feels like a police state.
And artists are also working.
Folks that are involved—were involved in
food justice issues are also working hard
to try to clean up some of the areas so that
they can start growing things again.
There’s an enormous amount that folks on
the ground are doing, and it’s actually
just a model of resistance and resilience
from the people on the island.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Elizabeth, I wanted to ask
you—in terms of the hindrance to the recovery
efforts, we’ve raised here on the show numerous
times the situation with the Jones Act, that
creates enormous restrictions in terms of
how supplies come into the island, how any
kind of imports come into the island.
But there’s been quite a bit of a fightback
from the AFL-CIO, which actually issued a
statement several days ago, and I just want
to read to you that statement from the AFL-CIO.
They say, “Since the Jones Act ensures that
our labor laws protect maritime employees,
repealing the Act would pave the way for foreign
companies to replace domestic crews with lower
paid workers lacking basic labor protections.”
And they go on to say that “foreign-flag
ships often do not enforce safety standards,
minimum social standards or trade union rights,
[and they] fail to pay crews, and avoid compliance
with environmental standards.”
They go on to say, “The Jones Act has in
no way impeded Puerto Rico’s recovery.”
And they say that the biggest problem has
actually been a lack of truck drivers and
getting supplies from the ports to the island,
not necessarily shipments coming in.
I’m wondering your response to these statements
by the AFL-CIO?
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Sure.
And, you know, sadly, that really—that really
sort of illustrates some of the conflicts
that we have as part of the climate justice
movement and labor.
And they’re sad conflicts, because we support
workers’ rights and their environmental
rights, their wages.
All of that is really important to us.
But the truth is that the Jones Act not only
is delaying support for Puerto Rico, but it’s
also been responsible for the high cost of
living because of the exorbitant costs of
shipping goods to Puerto Rico.
The truth is that in other nations and in
other places, communities get resources from
a lot of different nations and that those
things get worked out.
Just this past week, we worked really hard
to get Greenpeace to provide their ship so
that we could put all of the materials that
people on the island had asked us for and
transport those things on the vessel to Puerto
Rico.
But the ship that is owned by Greenpeace is
an international vessel.
And we did research that showed that not only
would they—the Jones Act prevents us from
actually putting those goods on the ship,
but that they can’t actually deliver those
goods to Puerto Rico.
So it feels as if the United States is saying,
“We can’t help you.
We won’t help you.
And we’re not going to let anyone else help
you.”
With labor, I am just really stunned that
the families and the people who work for the
unions are the same people that are going
to be impacted by climate change, and that
they really are only thinking about their
economic interests and not thinking about
a future that’s already here.
We had the same problem with the AFL-CIO when
we organized for the People’s Climate March,
and they didn’t want us to say, “Keep
it in the ground.”
And we were talking about literally a just
transition, moving away from an extractive
economy to one that’s regenerative and providing
jobs, and this is happening all over the world.
So it’s sort of a dated way of thinking
about economic development.
And it’s also really something that makes
you feel insensitive about the needs of unions,
because we want to be able to be aligned with
them, we care about their rights, and we care
about their future, and we care about unions,
but it’s hard to do when they don’t care
about the survival of our community, when
the needs of the shipping industry are more
important than the lives of the people in
Puerto Rico.
AMY GOODMAN: Elizabeth Yeampierre, can you—you’re
a longtime environmentalist, as co-chair of
the Climate Justice Alliance.
Can you talk about the connections between
climate change and Hurricane Maria?
I mean, that’s what happened in Puerto Rico.
Interestingly, you’re in San Francisco right
now, and just north of you, of course, you’ve
got this urban conflagration that has consumed
parts of Napa.
Santa Rosa is a wasteland in many parts.
Can you talk about this issue of climate change
and what isn’t being talked about even in
the media that’s covering the climate catastrophes,
not mentioning that word, “global warming”?
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Yeah, it’s amazing,
Amy.
You know, I’m Puerto Rican.
I run an organization that was founded by
Puerto Ricans 50 years ago.
And I’m a climate justice activist.
And it feels like my worlds have collided.
You know, the situation in Puerto Rico—Puerto
Rico is a model of extraction.
For generations, the United States has basically
extracted our land, our labor.
And Puerto Rico has now become sort of the
poster child for climate injustice.
And I refer to the—55,000 people have already
left Puerto Rico in 33 days.
And I think of them as climate refugees.
Hurricane Maria came on the heels of Irma,
on the heels of Harvey in Houston.
We’re right here in the Bay, where there
are all these wildfires.
And I’m actually here in a meeting with
It Takes Roots, which is made up of the Grassroots
Global Justice Alliance, the Climate Justice
Alliance, the Indigenous Environmental Network,
Right to the City—all of us really grappling
on how do you build just transitions in communities
that are faced with a crisis that’s already
here.
So, Puerto Rico is really a front line.
And because its unique relationship with the
United States, it makes it particularly vulnerable,
because other places—you know, if we’re
talking about Houston and exposure to toxics
and toxicants, that was something that we
saw coming years ago.
You mentioned that I’ve been doing this
for a while, and it’s true.
I was the chair of the U.S. EPA National Environmental
Justice Advisory Council.
And many years ago, I was talking about: What
do we do about industrial waterfront communities
in the event of an extreme weather event?
Is the EPA ready to address that issue?
If we have an extreme weather event, Superfunds
then basically overflow.
Chemical exposure will cause disease for generations.
What are we doing about that?
And at the time—and it was under the Obama
administration—the NEJAC didn’t want to
address climate change.
They just wanted to talk about environmental
justice in the traditional sense.
And then New York City was hit by Sandy, and
we were allowed to create a working group
to address that.
So, we were able to do a study, that kind
of sat there, and with recommendations from
people from industrial waterfront communities,
and the study just sat there collecting dust.
And then Harvey happened.
And Houston then becomes the exact thing that
we were predicting.
And then, here in Puerto Rico, we’ve got
23 Superfunds, 23 Superfunds that have now
flooded and affected everything, so that even
as people make their way through their communities
to try to clean up, they’re being exposed
to any number of chemicals.
There is no—no one is looking at the EJ
executive order that really sort of says,
you know, you’ve got to have an interagency
approach to addressing these issues.
What’s the quality of the area?
What’s the quality of the water?
What is the quality of the soil?
Are people protected?
Are they wearing protective gear?
What’s the exposure, again, to toxics and
toxicants?
So, all of that is happening in Puerto Rico,
in a tiny island that was just literally like
just slaughtered by this hurricane.
So, we knew that this was coming.
Of course, we’re not—we were never prepared
for it.
But Puerto Rico really is that—sadly, that
poster child of climate change.
And so, folks can deny that it’s here, but,
honestly, you know, our scientists—you know,
our scientists are telling us—99 percent
of the scientists are telling us that it’s
global warming.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Elizabeth—
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: So now—yeah?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, I wanted to ask you,
if we could switch gears a little bit, about
the response of both the federal government
and the Puerto Rico government itself to the—subsequent
to the disaster.
We have the news now that the Senate is getting
ready to move forward a bill which is $36
billion for all three—for Texas, Florida
and Puerto Rico—and, of course, this issue
of the loans to Puerto Rico, instead of actual
grants, and that FEMA is releasing $500 million
immediately.
But, of course, FEMA is doing that because
the PROMESA board, installed by Congress,
sent a letter to the president and to congressional
leaders just about 10 days ago saying the
government of Puerto Rico will be completely
out of money by the end of this month, by
October 30th.
There is no money left to be able to do any
kind of work.
So, one, the nature of the federal response,
but also the nature of the response by the
local Puerto Rican government itself, the
governor, Ricardo Rosselló, which hasn’t
gotten a whole lot of attention?
But the governor initially hired a company,
a completely unknown company, to restore electricity
in Puerto Rico, a company by the name of Whitefish
LLC out of Montana, that it turns out only
had two employees and virtually no track record,
and yet was being hired to bring back all
the electricity to Puerto Rico.
The only interesting thing about Whitefish
is that it’s a small town in Montana of
3,000 people, where the only—the most prominent
resident of Whitefish, Montana, is Ryan Zinke,
the secretary the interior.
So I’m wondering your response to how the
government of Puerto Rico is handling the
aftermath, and also the federal government?
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Well, Juan, both are—both
are concerning.
The federal government is concerning because
the commitment to Puerto Rico is so small.
And the president has actually said that all
of his support is behind Texas, but, basically,
Puerto Rico is going to have to save itself.
So, that’s concerning.
The governor of Puerto Rico—as you know,
PROMESA really devastated Puerto Rico.
And now we’re really concerned about what
Naomi calls “disaster capitalism.”
The truth is that we’re hearing that there
are conversations being had with the governor
of Puerto Rico and with private investors
to privatize entire communities in Puerto
Rico, like Arecibo.
That’s why we’re so concerned about the
fact that there are—that 55,000 people have
left.
We’re afraid that the same thing is going
to happen to Puerto Rico as happened in New
Orleans, where people never came back and
their communities were gentrified.
And in Puerto Rico, we’re concerned that
entire towns and communities will be privatized.
We’ve also been watching with interest his
reaction to what the president is saying is
a great recovery.
And so we’ve been wondering: Is his reaction
one that has to do with the fact that he’s
afraid to upset this president and not get
any relief at all, or does he really believe
this?
It is a—we’re actually—we’re demanding
transparency.
We want to find out who these relationships
are with.
We want to find out where the relief is happening,
for example.
Which are the communities that have been prioritized
for relief?
Where is the money being invested?
Is that going to communities where there are
U.S.-owned properties, or is that going to
communities that have been most impacted?
Because, as you know, even before the storm,
a lot of the resources went into recreational
developments and hotels and properties owned
by the United States.
So those are questions that we have.
We are concerned about what the recovery is
going to look like.
And Puerto Rico can’t have a recovery that
takes it back to where it was, or leaves it
in a place that makes it completely—that
makes Puerto Ricans completely dependent on
the United States, which is why we’ve been
talking about a just recovery.
All of the efforts that we’ve been hearing
about are very conventional.
And this is a very—climate change is a very
unconventional situation.
So, we have no trust in this governor.
And we have less trust in this president to
solve the problem that Puerto Rico has, that
really was created through—not just through
the storm, but from generations of extraction.
And so, this situation that Puerto Rico is
in is one that could have been predicted,
because PROMESA left Puerto Rico devastated,
and the hurricane has basically knocked it—knocked
it to its knees.
AMY GOODMAN: You know, some people have speculated,
Elizabeth Yeampierre, that maybe President
Trump isn’t as concerned about Puerto Rico
because they don’t vote for president.
You don’t get to vote for president on the
island.
What about the fact that so many people are
now moving to the mainland?
I mean, they are American citizens.
How does it work?
Can they vote then?
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Well, I think that if
Puerto Ricans move to the states, that they
may be able to vote once they establish residency
here in the United States.
I don’t know if the reason that the president
doesn’t care about Puerto Rico is because
they can’t vote for president.
That’s possible.
I think that the reason is deeper than that.
I think that there is a disregard for the
lives of people of color, that there’s a
disregard for, you know, folks who come from
the Global South.
And so, Puerto Rico is more seen as an economic
opportunity for private interests in the United
States, and the people are just sort of the
backdrop to that interest.
So I think that citizenship is important.
And folks having the right to vote, clearly,
that’s important.
But I think it’s more complicated than that.
AMY GOODMAN: Right.
I mean, if so many Puerto Ricans move to Florida,
I mean, could it flip Florida and make it
Democratic?
Just a question.
ELIZABETH YEAMPIERRE: Well, you know, I heard
that the reason that Florida voted for Obama
during that election was that there were so
many Puerto Ricans in Central Florida, that
they actually had or played a role in tipping
the vote.
I don’t know if that’s true, but that’s
what we’ve heard.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Elizabeth Yeampierre, we
want to thank you for being with us, executive
director of UPROSE, co-chair of the Climate
Justice Alliance.
We will link to your piece that you just wrote
with Naomi Klein for The Intercept.
That piece is called “Imagine a Puerto Rico
Recovery Designed by Puerto Ricans.”
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, what happened in Niger?
And what is U.S. Africa policy?
Stay with us.
