AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s show with the escalating
political crisis in Honduras.
On Sunday night, the government-controlled
electoral commission declared the U.S.-backed
incumbent President Juan Orlando Hernández
as the official winner of the contested November
26 presidential election.
The commission made the announcement while
opposition candidate Salvador Nasralla was
on a plane traveling to the United States
to present evidence of election fraud to the
OAS and State Department.
The opposition party is now calling for nationwide
protests, and the Organization of American
States has called for a new election.
This is Jorge “Tuto” Quiroga, head of
the electoral observer mission of the OAS.
JORGE ”TUTO” QUIROGA: [translated] The
electoral observer mission considered that
it has observed a process of low electoral
quality, and therefore cannot settle the doubts
over what has been announced today.
The mission regrets, once again, the incidents
of violence that have occurred in the elections,
in different phases of the electoral process,
and calls once again for all actors to stay
calm and act responsibly.
AMY GOODMAN: Protests erupted after the November
26 election, when the government-controlled
electoral commission stopped tallying votes
once the count showed opposition candidate
Nasralla ahead.
After a few days, the electoral commission
then claimed Hernández was ahead.
Human rights groups say as many as 22 people
have been killed and more than 1,200 detained
in the nationwide protests since.
Well, for more, we’re joined in Tegucigalpa
by award-winning independent journalist Allan
Nairn, as well as by Rodolfo Pastor, the spokesperson
for the Alliance Against the Dictatorship,
the opposition party represented by Salvador
Nasralla.
And in Washington, D.C., Dana Frank is with
us, professor of history at University of
California, Santa Cruz.
Let’s begin with Rodolfo Pastor in Tegucigalpa.
Rodolfo Pastor, you’re spokesperson for
the opposition party that is led by Salvador
Nasralla, who was in a plane, headed to Washington,
when the government-controlled electoral commission
announced that the incumbent President Hernández
has won.
What is your response?
And what’s happening in the streets right
now?
RODOLFO PASTOR: Well, what’s happened since
last night—it’s early morning here in
Honduras—is, obviously, the announcement
by the tribunal, a very unilateral announcement.
Only the president of the tribunal was on
camera, which is very, very atypical, since
it’s a collegiate body and there is three
magistrates for the tribunal, and yet it was
the president of the tribunal, who is more
directly linked to Juan Orlando Hernández,
who was to make an announcement, which was
also atypical since it was not an official
announcement.
It was basically him communicating the final
results of the count, and yet it was not the
tribunal coming out and saying Juan Orlando
Hernández had been elected president of Honduras.
What happened since then is, of course, the
alliance has rejected this declaration.
We do not consider the tribunal, by now, to
be a legitimate institution here in Honduras.
It has been that way for a while.
We have questioned the credibility of the
tribunal, the capacity of the tribunal to
provide credible results, since before the
elections.
And, of course, by now, more than three weeks
since the elections, we are very concerned
that the tribunal has played a very, very
important role in manipulating the results.
And this is something that the OAS has also
come out and spoken about in its report.
The alliance has rejected the results and
has called for the population to stay on the
streets, to keep mobilizing, since this is
our way of putting pressure on the regime
so that they can actually rectify.
Since the announcement by the tribunal and
then the statements made by the OAS calling
for a new election, what we’ve heard here
in Honduras is, basically, Juan Orlando Hernández
moving forward, saying, “Well, I am now
the winner.”
All the front pages this morning on all the
major newspapers call him the new president
of Honduras for the next four years.
They barely mention the fact that the OAS
came out with a very, very strong statement
questioning the tribunal, questioning the
process and calling for new elections.
AMY GOODMAN: Allan Nairn, you’ve been covering
the events in Tegucigalpa through this election.
Can you talk about Nasralla , where he was
when this announcement was made?
You saw him getting on the plane in Tegucigalpa?
ALLAN NAIRN: Yeah, I spoke to him as he was
boarding.
And he didn’t—he clearly didn’t expect
this.
He was on the way to Washington to plead his
case.
One thing that shocked many people here was
that President Hernández made this announcement
not only while Nasralla was on the plane,
but one day after Hernández’s own sister
was killed in a helicopter crash.
But he seized the moment to spring his proclamation
of victory.
The declaration by the secretary-general of
the OAS, Luis Almagro, was remarkable, because
the OAS is historically a policy tool of the
United States, and he is clearly bucking the
will of the United States, which has been
backing Hernández throughout this process.
Hernández is close to General Kelly in the
White House.
I think this took some courage on the secretary-general’s
part, because during the recent weeks I’ve
been talking to some former Latin American
heads of state who have been—who have made
it clear that the OAS has been hesitant about
going against the U.S. on this.
But now the secretary-general has issued a
very strong statement, making it clear that
the computers—the computer system of the
electoral commission was penetrated.
It was an invitation to fraud.
And the OAS report didn’t even address what
seems to be the dominant emerging evidence,
which is that much of the fraud was done by
simple ballot box stuffing on the local level
by the ruling party.
And as I previously mentioned on an earlier
show, on the 30th of November one of the technicians
inside the electoral system sent out a private
message, in which he stated, ”El fraude
ya se hizo,” “The fraud has now been done.”
This OAS stance by the secretary-general put
some pressure on the Honduran government,
which has bitterly attacked him now, saying
he’s inciting violence.
But, more importantly, it may make it difficult
for the White House, which will have a hard
time explaining, in any rational way, why
it would now back Hernández as the OAS is
calling for new elections.
AMY GOODMAN: And can you talk about the role
of Heidi Fulton, the chargé d’affaires,
who, as in many countries around the world,
President Trump has not appointed ambassadors,
and so she plays that role?
The significance of Nasralla being on a plane
to the U.S., what he was planning to do at
the State Department and the OAS?
And her role in Honduras right now, as she
is deeply involved with speaking with both
sides?
ALLAN NAIRN: Well, just a few days earlier,
she had appeared alongside the head of the
electoral tribunal, a de facto endorsement
to the partial, not clean recount they were
doing.
And she was widely denounced for that.
It’s clear that behind the scenes she’s
been working on behalf of Hernández.
And the U.S. has not denounced the killings
by the security forces.
Last night, I went out on the streets as people
were taking to the streets, burning tires.
And the dominant force I ran into were the
military police, which is the most repressive
and notorious element of the armed forces.
They’re the ones most closely and personally
linked to President Hernández.
They were carrying live ammunition.
They told me they had orders to open fire
on demonstrators if they gave them any trouble.
And although the Pentagon has been claiming
in recent years that the U.S. has not been
training the military police, a number of
those I ran into said they had gotten their
training from Fort Benning.
It’s partially necessary for them to use
this extremely repressive force now, because
two weeks ago the police rebelled and said
they would no longer carry out repression.
And other elements of the army I’ve been
talking to have been saying—you know, rank-and-file
troops have been saying that they are reluctant
also.
I’ve never actually seen, in any other country,
a security force that was less ideologically
strong and less committed to their own leadership.
When you ask them who their families voted
for back in the countryside where they come
from, very few of them say Hernández.
Most of them say their families voted for
Nasralla, at least among those I’ve talked
to.
And they seem—many of them seem to identify
more as poor working people, where they come
from, as opposed to being members of the institution.
And I think the Hernández government and
also [inaudible] have to see this.
And if the popular resistance is large and
persistent enough, this government may have
some difficulty holding on, even with U.S.
backing.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Dana Frank, a professor
at University California, Santa Cruz, you’ve
been closely following everything here.
You say this election is being stolen.
DANA FRANK: Oh, well, I think we have to say
there’s certainly evidence of fraud and
a great concern about who controlled those
tally sheets, who controlled the computers.
I certainly would support what the OAS is
saying, which is, we don’t have evidence
of a clear election here that could be certified.
And there’s a long history of electoral
fraud in Honduras going into this.
Let’s remember that.
And Juan Orlando himself has a long history
of subverting the rule of law, overthrowing
the Supreme Court.
Let’s remember, his election itself is illegal.
It’s a criminal act in violation of the
constitution, which says you should be—it’s
an immediate criminal act to even advocate
re-election.
So, going into that, let’s remember that.
So, I think that we have to listen to what
the opposition is saying, listen to what the
OAS is saying, and say we need—they need
a new election.
There’s way too much water under the bridge
in terms of that electoral commission.
And it’s the foxes are guarding the chicken
coop here and the chicken—the votes from
the chickens.
And so, I think we really have to listen to
what the opposition was saying.
And remember that the Honduran people have
very few ways of expressing themselves at
this point.
People say, “Well, why are they going into
the streets?”
It’s not like they can petition Congress.
Juan Orlando Hernández controls all the reins
of power—the Supreme Court, the attorney
general, the military, most of the police.
We don’t really know, as Mr. Nairn was saying,
what the position of the military and the
police are going to be.
This one unit, 400 of the COBRAS, did rebel.
So, you know, I think, just supporting what
he was saying, we have to pay attention to
what the United States is going to do here.
They have such a long history of giving a
green light to Juan Orlando’s criminal re-election,
of being silent about the repression since
the elections, and, outrageously, certifying,
two days after the election, as it was already
clear that there were major problems with
the election—certifying the human rights
conditions on aid to Honduras had been met.
I mean, that was astonishing.
And also on December 10th, which is International
Human Rights Day, Heidi Fulton, the acting
ambassador, chose to use that to praise the
Juan Orlando Hernández’s government for
its advances on human rights.
So, they’re sending clear signals about
who they care about and support, and who they
don’t care about and support, and this lack
of respect for basic human rights in Honduras.
So, all eyes are on the United States right
now.
Will it respect the OAS?
And, you know, there were some suggestions
that it was—that the OAS was going to certify
this election.
And when it hasn’t, I think, what is the
United States going to do?
The EU has actually come out, last night,
supporting the electoral commission, very
embarrassingly, and pretty much repeating
exactly what the Honduran government said.
And the EU has a long history, like the United
States, of supporting Juan Orlando’s government.
You know, the other place to look here is
the U.S. Congress, which there have been very,
very strong voices about the appearance of
major fraud.
There have been very strong voices condemning
the repression, and especially Congresswoman
Schakowsky, Congressmember Keith Ellison.
There are already 68 members of Congress that
have said cut police and military aid.
Going into the elections, you know, Senator
Leahy, Senator Reed, Senator Merkley and many
others in the Senate have expressed concern
about potential fraud.
They’ve expressed concern about the state
security forces.
So, we also really want to pay attention to
this congressional voice pushing back against
the State Department.
Remember that Congress controls the purse
strings, and U.S. money is funding these state
security forces.
U.S. money is, you know, of the State Department—it’s
the U.S. State Department that has been continuingly
celebrating Juan Orlando’s dictatorship
as if he was, as John Kelly put it, a great
guy and a good friend.
I mean, Kelly said that as recently as May,
and that’s Trump’s chief of staff.
AMY GOODMAN: Rodolfo Pastor, in Tegucigalpa,
you are the opposition spokesperson, the Alliance
Against the Dictatorship.
Can you explain what Nasralla is doing in
Washington and what you’re calling for to
happen now in the streets?
And explain how broad your coalition is.
RODOLFO PASTOR: Well, the coalition is very
broad.
What evidently happened here is we realized—different
political parties and social movements, we
realized that we were dealing with a dictatorship,
that this was no longer a normal political
process where we were just competing for political
power through elections.
This man who has come to power during the
last eight years, as a result of the 2009
coup, when he became president of Congress
first and started packing the courts and different
state institutions, has garnered, has concentrated
so much power under his executive office that
we are no longer dealing with a normal president
here in Honduras.
And so, we started coming together, throughout
the last four years, when he, as president,
has been increasingly abusive, authoritarian
and repressive.
And we realized that the only way to confront
this guy on an election, that he pretty much
controls, was by coming together and building
this broad coalition, which brings very odd
partners to the party.
It’s—well, of course, I am a member of
LIBRE, and this is a party that was born from
the resistance to the coup back in 2009, and
it’s a left-of-center party, basically.
And the coalition also brings together PINU,
which is a small social democrat party, that
has been in Congress for a long time but has
not played a major role in Honduran politics,
and, of course, PAC, led by Mr. Nasralla,
which was also a party that is born from the
coup, but as a right-of-center party based
on an anti-corruption narrative.
It’s a party that, by the way, months before
the coalition officially came together as
the alliance, was dismantled by the tribunal,
led by Mr. Matamoros and under Juan Orlando’s
direct instruction.
So, we come together, and we start getting
social movements from around Honduras coming
to us and also saying, “Hey, listen, we
want to be part of this, and we need to organize
against this, because we know.
We know we are going into an electoral process
that we have stated, both nationally and internationally,
did not meet any basic conditions for it to
be free or fair.”
And we went into this game knowing that they
control the field, that we were clearly against—going
against the odds here.
But we also knew that the rejection of the
Honduran population, as a whole, against—of
Juan Orlando, against Juan Orlando, is huge,
is huge.
And there was absolutely no way that if these
elections were in any way clean or transparent,
that Juan Orlando was going to be the winner.
And that’s currently the position.
And it’s also—it might seem contradictory,
but we are not exactly celebrating the fact
that the OAS has come out and asked for a
new process to be organized, because we won
these past elections.
We clearly did so, even against a massive
fraud and the control that Juan Orlando has
of the institutions that organize the elections.
The Honduran people came out massively and
voted against Juan Orlando and for the alliance.
And this is something that we want to make
very clear.
We need to respect this.
We need to respect the fact that the popular
will was very clearly expressed, and that
since the elections, and since it became so
evident that there had been fraud going on
before, during and after the elections, there
has been significant repression by state police
and army forces.
And as a result, we have victims of this repression.
We have 22 people who have been killed, many
others who have been injured.
And as both Dana and the journalist pointed
out, you know, this is a critical moment for
us, and we are not willing to just accept
that Juan Orlando should, by some miracle,
agree that we are to hold new elections—in
which, of course, he would lose, if they were
organized by an objective, impartial tribunal.
So, we are very concerned with, number one,
the reaction that Juan Orlando might have
against what happened last night—of course,
he seems to be plowing forward and, you know,
basically ignoring what the OAS has said—and,
number two, yes, what will the U.S. say about
this.
Now, Mr. Nasralla is visiting Washington in
order to meet with Secretary-General Almagro.
He is also to meet with officials at the State
Department and—
AMY GOODMAN: Secretary-general of the OAS.
RODOLFO PASTOR: That’s right.
That’s right.
And what we are—this happened before the
announcement was made.
We did expect the announcement to be made.
We expected it to be made today, Monday, and
not Sunday night.
And yet it did not come as a surprise to us.
And we have been getting ready for this announcement
to be made by the tribunal.
And we do consider that the OAS report does
give—it gives us a certain boost.
And I speak on behalf of the Honduran population
that has been out in the streets for three
weeks now, because we understand that there
is a voice of hope out there and that the
international community is still paying attention
to us.
We were obviously very upset with the position
that the European Union representative here
came out and stated last night, like Professor
Frank stated.
And yet, this is not—we must make it clear,
this is not the official position of the electoral
observation mission that they have here.
And I understand that, right now, as we speak,
we have Marisa Matias, the president of the
commission, speaking from Brussels about this.
And I think that they will come out strongly
stating that the electoral process was plagued
by fraud.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we’re going to continue
to cover this again tomorrow on Democracy
Now!
as events unfold, with the opposition leader,
who many believe won the election, the Electoral
College—the electoral commission shutting
down the vote for a period, when it was announced
Salvador Nasralla was 5 percentage points
ahead.
He is in Washington now.
Rodolfo Pastor, spokesperson for the opposition
party, Alliance Against the Dictatorship;
Allan Nairn, in the streets of Tegucigalpa,
independent journalist; and Dana Frank, professor
at University of California, Santa Cruz, thanks
so much for being with us.
When we come back, did Republican lawmakers
include a last-minute provision in the tax
plan to personally enrich Tennessee Senator
Corker in order to secure his support for
the tax bill?
Stay with us.
