AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We begin today’s program with President
Trump’s tax bill.
Just before 2 a.m. on Saturday morning, Republicans
passed a nearly 500-page bill with dramatic
impacts on not only the U.S. tax code, but
also healthcare, domestic spending, even oil
and gas drilling in the Arctic.
The plan would cut taxes by nearly one-and-a-half
trillion dollars.
Major corporations and the richest Americans,
including President Trump and his own family,
would reap the most dramatic benefits.
The legislation includes slashing the corporate
tax rate from 35 to 20 percent and giving
further tax cuts to wealthy business owners.
The Senate version would also dramatically
cut the estate tax, while a House version
of the plan, passed last month, would eliminate
the estate tax entirely.
Significantly, the Senate bill would also
repeal the Affordable Care Act’s individual
mandate, which experts say would cause the
cost of health insurance to skyrocket, and
lead to millions of people losing their health
insurance.
A little-known provision would even open one
of the world’s last pristine wildernesses—the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge—to oil and
fracked gas drilling.
According to a report in Public Citizen, more
than half of all registered lobbyists in Washington,
D.C., worked on the tax bill.
Overall, the bill is expected to add $1.4
trillion to federal budget deficits over the
next decade.
The New York Times reports this debt will
be offset by cuts to Medicare, Social Security
and other government programs that benefit
the poor and middle class.
Critics say these cuts could include ending
access to chemotherapy and other cancer treatments.
The bill passed the Senate 51 to 49, with
every Democrat voting against the bill and
all Republicans voting for it except Tennessee
Republican Senator Bob Corker.
This is Vermont independent Senator Bernie
Sanders.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: The legislation passed last
night gives incredibly large tax breaks to
the very, very wealthy.
It raises taxes on millions of middle-class
families.
It leaves 13 million more Americans without
health insurance.
It raises health insurance premiums by 10
percent a year.
And it raises the deficit by $1.4 trillion.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re joined now by Minnesota
Democratic Congressmember Keith Ellison, the
first Muslim member of Congress.
Ellison is also the deputy chair of the Democratic
National Committee, or DNC.
Congressman Ellison, welcome back to Democracy
Now!
Your response to this, well, in-the-dark-of-night
passage of the tax bill, that will overhaul
taxes in a way we haven’t seen in decades?
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Well, it’s really designed
to reorder our representative democracy.
What they will do with these massive tax breaks
is they will buy each other up in more mergers,
which will concentrate markets and make it
much more difficult for small businesses and
workers.
They’ll also pay each other off and give
each other more bonuses, which they will use
to purchase political influence in Washington
and state capitals all over the country.
So, you’re talking about giving a lot of
money to people who are already rich.
They pretty much cannot use the money to spark
consumer demand, because they’re already
satiated from a financial standpoint, and
will be raising taxes on many middle-class
people and working-class people.
So this is really, I think, more about reordering
our society, creating a hereditary aristocracy
in the United States and really taking our
country and leading it down a path where we
will one day see a very tiny group of very,
very, very rich elite people in an ocean of
desperate people just trying to hang on and
make it every single day—not too much different
from countries that we see around the world,
like Honduras, where I recently visited.
AMY GOODMAN: And we’re going to talk about
Honduras in our next segment with you and
Honduran activists, but I want to turn to
President Trump speaking in New York City
Saturday night after the Senate narrowly approved
the tax overhaul.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Out of 52 Republican
senators, 51 voted, and we ended up doing
it.
And we didn’t need our great vice president
to break the tie—Mike.
We didn’t need Mike.
We didn’t need anything.
We voted.
The Democrats left before the vote was even—somebody
said “started,” somebody said “before
it was over.”
I don’t even care.
But we got no Democrat help, and I think that’s
going to cost them very big in the election,
because, basically, they voted against tax
cuts.
And I don’t think, politically, it’s good
to vote against tax cuts.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressman Ellison, can you
respond?
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Well, I don’t think it’s
good to vote for giving more money to people
who don’t—certainly don’t need it.
And even Trump himself stands to benefit dramatically
from these tax cuts.
One of the things they’re cutting is the
alternative minimum tax.
Last time we have tax returns for him was
in 2005, where he paid about $31 million because
of the alternative minimum tax.
He won’t have to pay that, if this tax bill
goes through.
So, not only is he reordering our constitutional
democracy, he is personally enriching himself—which
is not new, because, of course, he’s done
it ever since he swore an oath to become president
of the United States.
Emoluments Clause violations, all kinds of
things, nepotism, you know, it’s just been
awash in filling up the swamp.
And so, you know, this is already the richest
Cabinet we’ve ever seen.
And apparently they’re not done yet, you
know.
And again, it’s not just money to buy luxury
goods.
It’s money to reorder our constitutional
democracy, which is why I am urging everybody
to become the most effective grassroots activists
you can.
This is essential that we have a resurgence
in democratic participation.
And I don’t mean big-D Democrat, I mean
small-D democrat.
I mean getting involved in your neighborhood,
your community.
This is no time to say, “I’m not into
politics.”
This is a time to go headlong into the welfare
of this nation.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressman Ellison, the Senate
tax bill would roll back the estate tax on
inherited wealth, as you mentioned, which
currently applies to—
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —about 5,000 of the wealthiest
U.S. families.
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Following the vote, Iowa Republican
Senator Charles Grassley praised the move,
telling The Des Moines Register, “I think
not having the estate tax recognizes the people
that are investing, as opposed to those that
are just spending every darn penny they have,
whether it’s on booze or women or movies.”
Congressman Ellison?
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Well, you know, the elites
always want to shame the poor—right?—and
everyone else.
I mean, the fact is, this economy is based
on 70 percent of the people driving consumer
demand.
If people do not purchase goods and services,
this economy will grind to recession.
And that is why, if you are going to do a
tax cut, it ought to really be aimed at low-income
and middle-income people.
That might actually spur demand.
But the way they’ve done it is to just give,
you know, more to people who already have
everything.
So, the economic impact of getting rid of
the estate tax will not be greater investment
or greater consumer demand.
It will simply be more money for political
influence, mergers and more bonuses.
In fact, let me just tell you, I mean, you
know, these taxes will literally worsen the
economy.
They will make the economy more sclerotic,
if you will, because, you know, it is really
putting hands in the hands of working people
that allows them to open new businesses, do
more hiring and really—you know, really
do more for the economy.
You put money in the hands of people who don’t
need it, all they’re going to do is just
what I already outlined—more political influence.
And as mentioned before, Amy, you know, this
economy already has the signs of plutocracy,
already has the signs that it’s at a point
where the richest people are simply trying
to extract wealth from the working and middle
classes for themselves.
This tax bill just makes that all the worse.
And my last point on this is that, look, rich
people already have a lot of money.
There’s literally trillions of dollars in
cash held by corporations, their stock valuations
at an all-time high.
They do not need a tax cut to do anything.
They can invest now, if they wanted to.
They don’t want to, because they can make
more money just by mergers and stock buybacks
and stuff like that.
So, this is really just sort of a travesty.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to a video about
the tax plan posted on Twitter by Senator
Jon Tester of Montana.
The video went viral over the weekend, Tester
tweeting a message with the video, saying,
quote, “I was just handed a 479-page tax
bill a few hours before the vote.
One page literally has hand scribbled policy
changes on it that can’t be read.”
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: “This is Washington, D.C. at
its worst.
Montanans deserve so much better.”
SEN.
JON TESTER: It’s the night where we’re
going to be voting on the tax bill.
I just got the tax bill 25 minutes ago.
This was the tax bill.
See how thick it is?
This is what it looks like.
Oh, no, let’s look at the bill.
This is what it really looks like.
I want you to take a look at this, folks.
This is your government at work.
Here’s the bill as it’s written.
Here’s the modifications that are in it.
I can read one word.
It’s called “add this language.”
Can you tell me what that word is?
If you can, you got better eyes than me.
This is unbelievable.
We’re doing massive tax reform on an absolute
incredible timeline.
This is going to affect everybody in this
country.
It’s going to shift money from middle-class
families to the rich.
It’s amazing.
And we’ve been given this 20 minutes ago,
25 minutes ago.
And we’re supposed to vote on it in a couple
hours.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Senator Jon Tester of
Montana.
Congressman Ellison, can you explain what
now happens next?
That’s the Senate.
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Your body of Congress is the
House, of course.
You have a slightly different tax plan.
Explain: Is this a done deal?
For example, drilling in the Arctic, given
to Senator Murkowski of Alaska; the ending
of the individual mandate under Obamacare—that’s
in the Senate bill, not in the House bill.
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain what happens now.
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: No, by no means is this a done
deal.
That’s why we need activists to really,
really kick it up a notch.
I mean, the fact is, is that they’re going
to have to have a conference committee in
order to get one unified House-Senate bill.
And then they’re going to have to repass
it.
So there will be more—at least one more
vote in each house on the bill after it has
been conferenced, because, if you think back
to your high school civics, you know, you
have to have the same bill passed through
both houses, and then that is what will go
to the president’s desk for signature.
So, for activists who want to preserve constitutional
democracy, who don’t believe in hereditary
aristocracy, who believe that teachers ought
to be able to deduct the 250 bucks of school
supplies that they bring—they might spend
their own money for in a classroom, then you
still have time to fight this horrible piece
of legislation.
And, you know, Trump just said he doesn’t
care whether he had any Democrats vote for
it or not.
He just said it.
And he also said none of us voted for it.
We can’t vote for it.
It’s awful.
It’s really shocking that any Republicans
voted for it.
Is Corker the only one who wants to stand
on his belief that mounting deficits are not
good?
My question for Republicans is: What happened
to your concern about deficits?
I thought you didn’t like them.
Suddenly they’re OK.
I mean, this is outrageous.
They’re literally borrowing money to give
it to rich people and huge corporations.
And it’s just really a travesty.
Now is the moment for real activism.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressman Ellison, I wanted
to get to a bunch of headlines.
Last week, President Trump drew international
outrage after he retweeted three violent videos
shared by a leader of a fringe right-wing
group called Britain First, the videos purporting
to show violence carried out by Muslims, videos
posted early Tuesday by Britain First deputy
leader Jayda Fransen.
Two of the videos retweeted by Trump, which
were filmed in Egypt and Syria, presented
without context, were titled, “Islamist
mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats
him to death!”
and “Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin
Mary!”
A third video, titled “Muslim migrant beats
up Dutch boy on crutches!”
shows one teenager kicking and punching another.
The tweeted claim was widely reported as false,
including by the Dutch Embassy in Washington,
D.C., which tweeted, quote, “@realDonaldTrump
Facts do matter.
The perpetrator of the violent act in this
video was born and raised in the Netherlands.
He received and completed his sentence under
Dutch law.”
Then, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee
Sanders grilled by reporters over the videos.
PRESS SECRETARY SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS: Whether
it’s a real video, the threat is real, and
that is what the president is talking about.
That’s what the president is focused on,
is dealing with those real threats.
And those are real, no matter how you look
at it.
REPORTER 1: So it doesn’t matter if the
video is fake?
REPORTER 2: Even if it’s a fake video?
PRESS SECRETARY SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS: Look,
I’m not talking about the nature of the
video.
I think you’re focusing on the wrong thing.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Trump’s retweets drawing
praise from his far-right supporters, including
the Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, who tweeted,
“This is why WE LOVE TRUMP and WHY the FAKE
NEWS MEDIA HATES TRUMP.
He brings to light what the lying, Fake News
Media Won’t.
The truth is the media covers up horrific
numbers of racist hate crimes against White
people!”
That was David Duke endorsing President Trump.
Theresa May, his ally, the prime minister,
conservative prime minister of Britain, condemning
President Trump for what he’s done.
What do you feel has to happen now?
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Well, I feel we have to denounce
Donald Trump—again—for promoting racism
and hatred and division.
But I want folks listening to your broadcast
to understand this is not just the ramblings
of some old crazy guy.
The fact is, is that Donald Trump knows that
as he rifles money from the working and middle
classes up to the super rich, he has to sow
division among working people, because if
working people and middle-class people really
take a look at his economic policy, they will
come together, and they will stop it.
So, what he has to do is to promote racism—hate
the Muslims, hate the Latinos, hate the blacks,
you know, have male—men and women at each
other’s throats, you know, make sure we
repress the trans people.
And he’s trying to tell all of us Americans
that we are our own problem, not him.
And that’s not true.
He’s the problem.
The fact is, is that Americans don’t hate
their Muslim neighbors.
They don’t hate their Latino neighbors.
We have got to build human solidarity in this
country, because human solidarity is what’s
going to allow us to come together to protect
our democracy and to protect our economy.
So reject the hate.
Turn it away.
Don’t buy it.
And reach out to a neighbor.
He is trying to sow division so that he can
distract us from what he’s doing to us.
AMY GOODMAN: Congressman Ellison, President
Trump is expected to decided today whether
the U.S. will recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s
capital city and whether the U.S. will move
its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, Trump’s
planned announcement coming after senior adviser
Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, told the Saban
Forum in Washington, D.C., Trump hasn’t
decided yet.
Israel has occupied, of course, East Jerusalem
since '67.
Palestinian leaders have condemned any plans
by the U.S. to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's
capital.
This coming as documents handed to investigators
as part of the plea deal show General Flynn
was ordered to speak with Russian Ambassador
Sergey Kislyak by a “very senior” member
of the presidential transition team, cited
by many news outlets as Jared Kushner, Kushner
reportedly ordering Flynn to work with Russian
officials to delay a U.N. Security Council
vote on a resolution condemning illegal Israeli
settlements in the occupied West Bank.
Start with the first part.
Start with this week being declared Jerusalem
week by President Trump, and whether he will—what
his decision will be.
REP.
KEITH ELLISON: Well, you know, I believe in
the two-state solution, an Israeli state and
Palestinian state side by side in peace and
security.
And so, issues of where the capitals will
be has always been something that is going
to be negotiated in the course of a peace
agreement between Israelis and Palestinians.
This unilateral departure from that is really
upsetting, you know, the idea that we’re
going to have a negotiated settlement.
It is simply something that will delay peace.
It will make it much more difficult to obtain
peace in the Middle East.
And it is, again, another dramatic departure
from diplomacy, from negotiated settlements.
It’s just Trump, you know, stomping all
over what we’ve been trying to do as a nation
to foster a negotiated two-state solution
for many, many years.
So it’s really a horrible tragedy.
On the issue of Michael Flynn, he’s already
entered a plea of guilty.
You know, I was a criminal defense lawyer
for 17 years, and I can tell you that with
all the bad things he did, if he only is pleading
to this one charge of lying to the FBI, he
probably is offering very substantial assistance.
I don’t know that.
I’m not sharing privy information.
But just based on my experience, I think Michael
Flynn is going to be telling some things that
Donald Trump might rather keep secret.
But it’s about time for some sunshine, about
time for some things to come to light.
So, that’s what I have to say about that.
