AMY GOODMAN: I want to go back to your own
story, especially for young people who are
tuning in around the world right now.
Talk about your parents.
Talk about what happened to you in China.
AI WEIWEI: I was born in 1957.
That’s the year my father was purged as
a so-called rightist.
AMY GOODMAN: He had been a friend of Mao Zedong?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, he’s the same generation,
maybe younger than Mao Zedong.
And they all spent time in—before the new
nation established.
So he belongs to this early revolutionary
group.
And he was a poet.
He studied in Paris.
And right after he came back to China, he
was being put in jail for six years.
Then, later, he joined the revolution.
After the '49, he was criticized.
And with about half-million of the intellectuals
in China, they're being all put in the labor
camps to—called re-education.
So I grew up in these camps.
During the Cultural Revolution, he really
has to do very hard labors, insulted, beaten
and—
AMY GOODMAN: This was in the Gobi Desert?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, in the northwest, in the
Gobi Desert, very far, farrest location you
can get on the Chinese map.
AMY GOODMAN: And what was your understanding
of what happened to you, as a child?
AI WEIWEI: As a child, you have no way to
think otherwise, because everybody is in an
extremely difficult situation.
You think it’s like you’re standing in
the rain, everywhere is under the rain.
You know, it’s not—there’s no exception.
So, he spent about 20 years, but cannot write
words, you know, doing a lot of—to clean
the public toilet.
And he often been beaten and, you know, very—and
sometimes he comes home with all the ink poured
from—his head, you know, has become totally
black, and going through a lot of this kind
of insulting.
AMY GOODMAN: They poured ink over his head?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It’s just there’s a lot of meetings.
The meetings, he have to stand in front of
other people, and they would say all kinds
of bad words about him.
And he has to confess his crime, which he
never committed any crime.
AMY GOODMAN: And what about your mother?
AI WEIWEI: My mother—
AMY GOODMAN: She also was a writer?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, she also have to struggle.
She has to try to find something to feed the
children.
And, you know, we’re living underground.
You know, it’s like a hole.
You’re digging down.
And, you know, it’s just the whole family
living underground.
AMY GOODMAN: You helped your father burn your
whole library, except for this one French
encyclopedia?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah.
One day, I—my father had a huge collection
of books, art books about impressionists,
about Renaissance and even medieval artworks.
You know, because the Red Guard always come
to my home, have to check on those books,
every page, page by page, they would—if
they found anything like nudity or abstract
art, they would really start to really question
my father.
And, you know, it’s humiliating him.
So, one day, my father said, “We have to
burn all those books, because those books
attract so many people to come to our home.”
So I helped him to burn those books, page
by page, because it’s—and a lot of poetry
books.
You know, he’s a literary man, has a huge
collection of books.
So we burned it, everything.
AMY GOODMAN: And the next day, you were sent
off to the labor camp?
AI WEIWEI: Yes, soon after, we were sent to
the labor camp.
AMY GOODMAN: So you lived in this remote area
of China, for how long?
AI WEIWEI: I stayed 'til I was 18 or 19.
Then, after Chairman Mao's death, he has been—how
do you call it?—rehabitized.
AMY GOODMAN: Rehabilitated?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, yeah.
So we moved to Beijing.
AMY GOODMAN: And you went to school?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, at that time, the universities
started to open again, after 10 years shut
down.
I went into Beijing Film Institute.
AMY GOODMAN: And you immediately got involved
with politics and freedom of expression movements
there.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, that time is the first time
trying to have a wall we called the Democracy
Wall.
So we put our artworks, our writings, our
poetry on that wall.
And very soon after, the wall being torn down.
And the people who got involved, some of them
being put in jail.
So that’s a reason I decided I have to leave
China.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, you knew right away,
of course.
You had just come out of exile.
You knew what you faced, doing what you did.
AI WEIWEI: Yes, it’s unbelievable.
You think China, just after Cultural Revolution,
and everybody has to think about the lessons
they’ve paid for this kind of harsh political
movement.
Then some younger people started thinking
how to make the nation or change it or to
protect it from this kind of political event.
Then, immediately, Deng Xiaoping crashed the
students and, you know, the people who were
trying to make China more progressive.
AMY GOODMAN: So you left, and you came here
to the United States.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, I had a chance, so I left.
I come to United States.
I stayed in New York about 10 years.
AMY GOODMAN: Lower East Side?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, I stayed Lower East Side
and Brooklyn.
And the most time, Lower East Side, Third
Street between A and B.
AMY GOODMAN: You befriended Allen Ginsberg?
AI WEIWEI: Yes.
He was in the neighborhood.
And he went to China at that time.
And after he came back, he had a poetry reading
in Saint Mark’s Church.
So I was listening to his reading, and he
talked about China trip.
He said he had met a poet.
So, I figured out that’s my father, because
the story he’s telling.
So when he comes down, I said, “You just
met my father.”
So, he was very surprised.
Then we become friends.
AMY GOODMAN: So, you ended up returning to
China, despite all you had been through, because
your dad was ill, in 1993.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, at the time I moved out of
China, I was telling my mom, “I will never
go back.”
You know, I told her—you know, my mom was
very worried when she sent me to the airport,
because this child has no money and no—bad
English.
I told her, “Don’t worry.
I’m going home.”
So, she’s kind of sad.
She knows I will never come back to China.
But after 12 years, I decided to go back,
because my father was ill.
AMY GOODMAN: And how did you operate?
What kind of space did you have there then?
And talk about your art and, ultimately, what
you did with the Sichuan earthquake, which
was what?
About 10 years later, in 2003?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah.
By 1993, I went back.
China had some change.
You know, people become better off.
You know, there’s roads been fixed and some
tall buildings in the city.
But, basically, it never changed the political
structure, so there’s no freedom of speech,
no independent press.
You know, it’s very—it’s still very
harsh on any kind of ideas or discussion.
So I come up an idea to publish some underground
books to document Chinese art movement.
So, every year, we made a book.
And the book has no title, just black cover,
grey cover or white cover, in protesting the
censorship.
And those books document the underground movement
of art at that time, because there’s simply
not any newspaper or magazines who will talk
about contemporary art.
Then I opened the first art gallery in China—it’s
a nonprofit place—to show undergroundly
about Chinese art.
Then, by 2000, year 2000, I made a—I curated
an art show.
The title is [bleep] Off.
It’s about—also about contemporary young
artists’ work.
And yeah, but at that time I was involved
in architecture.
And I did a lot of architecture projects,
about 60 projects, 'til finally I got involved
with the National Stadium for Olympics.
We call it a Bird's Nest.
And after that, I quit the architecture.
And by 2005, I had a chance to learn how to
use the internet and started typing and writing
articles.
Suddenly, I become very, very popular on the
internet, because I would write three, four
articles a day.
And the next day, I would see a few hundred
thousand articles—reposts.
So I thought, “This is a really beautiful
thing you can do.”
And with—this nation has no tradition of
freedom of speech.
And people basically are very scared about
their writing, but I openly discussed politics
or anything, you know, with my own independent
view or opinion.
So I got so—I was so popular, you know,
for a very short time.
Then I got involved with the Sichuan earthquake
citizens’ investigation.
And—
AMY GOODMAN: The Sichuan earthquake, 2008.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, trying to find these 5,000
students who was vanished during this earthquake.
And, of course, that’s related to government
corruption and badly built buildings.
So a lot of other effort and argument about
a lot of judicial cases, because that’s
a big problem in China.
So, all those brought the government to have—well,
I will say they dislike me.
Or—
AMY GOODMAN: Well, you did this—you showed
the images of the children.
I wanted to show images from the installation
you made called So Sorry from 2009, creating
this installation called Remembering on the
façade of the Munich Museum.
Can you talk about this, in Germany, this—that
would then travel the world?
I saw it at the Brooklyn Museum.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, I—once I get totally involved
in this kind of life, a real situation, I
often want to find a language to express it
in the art context.
So, in that time, I do have art shows, and
so I always build a work relating to my research
or my findings.
And the show in Munich, and also in Brooklyn,
you can see some works are really relating
to Sichuan earthquake.
AMY GOODMAN: You took the children’s backpacks.
AI WEIWEI: I redesigned the backpacks.
AMY GOODMAN: Because you didn’t have them,
of course.
AI WEIWEI: Yes.
This is—needed a lot.
This is 9,000 backpacks.
AMY GOODMAN: And you wrote out the words of
the mother.
AI WEIWEI: Yes, yes.
That’s—Yang Xiaowan is the girl who got
killed, and her mom, very touched, is another
person arguing the rights of those students,
because, basically, China is silent about
all those things.
So I made a quite dramatic arguing, with about
60 articles I write about Sichuan earthquake.
So—
AMY GOODMAN: And the poor architecture and
the poor building standards that—
AI WEIWEI: Yes.
Yeah, we have a lot of investigations, materials
on the site with it.
So we have concrete proof, evidence, about
how those buildings has been collapsed.
AMY GOODMAN: And you wrote out the words with
the backpack, what the mother said, “She
lived happily for seven years in this world.”
AI WEIWEI: Yes.
That’s what her—where she said, “I don’t
want to get government pension.
All I want is people to remember my daughter
has been living happily for seven years.”
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to break, and when
we come back, what happened to you next, what
launched you back into the world outside of
China, after you were arrested and beaten.
Ai Weiwei is our guest, the world-renowned
Chinese dissident, artist, activist.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “Give Tomorrow Back to Me”
by Ai Weiwei.
Yes, this is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman.
Our guest for the hour is Ai Weiwei, yes,
spending the hour with the world-renowned
Chinese artist, dissident, activist.
In 2008, after the massive Sichuan earthquake
in China, Ai Weiwei launched a citizen investigation
to collect the names of the more than 5,000
schoolchildren who died, partially as a result
of the highly shoddy government construction
of the schools.
While the citizen investigation catapulted
him to international fame, it also enraged
Chinese government officials.
In 2009, his popular blog was shut down.
A few months later, police broke into his
hotel room, attacked him, punching him in
the face, causing cerebral hemorrhaging.
He had to have emergency brain surgery, which
he later documented in his film So Sorry.
In 2010, Ai Weiwei was placed under house
arrest, after the Chinese government demolished
his studio; then, in 2011, arrested at the
Beijing airport, held for 81 days without
any charge.
Chinese authorities seized his passport, refused
to return it until 2015.
So, after this—your exhibition, showing
the children, challenging the government,
what did happen to you in 2009?
AI WEIWEI: I was trying to do a test as a
witness for a fellow investigators who is
going to be sentenced.
So, I went to Sichuan, rested in a hotel.
The next day, the court will open.
And at midnight, a few dozen police just rush
in.
I think it’s about 3:00 in the morning.
They broke in the door.
And, you know, it’s in the dark.
And we had some argument.
I feel this punch right on my face.
And then, after that—oh, they seized us
in the hotel, so we couldn’t make appear
in the court, ’til the court finished.
So, after that, I feel headache, so I—I
had a show in Munich, so I have to travel
to Munich.
In Munich, I went to hospital.
They found out I have a hemorrhage in my—you
know, the bleedings in my brain.
So, immediately, we had an operation.
Then, if I don’t have this operation, they
said I will be finished.
And yeah, and after that, the situation even
getting worse.
You know, police follows me all the time.
And, of course, they try to intimidate me.
But by 2011, I was kidnapped in the airport,
been put a black hood over my face and taken
to a secret location.
And in that location, I was kind of jailed,
but it’s like a military base, for 81 days.
'Til now, nobody knows where this location
is.
And two soldiers would stand in front of me,
you know, the kind of military soldiers, about
80 centimeters away.
They would look at me like this and stand
still and, you know, doesn't make any kind
of move, day and night, 24 hours a day.
And even when I sleep or when I take a shower
or go to toilets, they also have to stand
right in front of me.
And now, I’ve been going through about 50
interrogations.
The crime they accused me is subversion of
state power, so which is the biggest crime
you can commit in China.
And yeah, that’s what happened.
AMY GOODMAN: But they gave you your passport
back in 2015.
AI WEIWEI: First, they told me I will be sentenced
over 10 years because of my crime.
And I could believe them, because compared
to other people.
There’s many people has been put in jail,
also sentenced.
I would be much more extreme condition than
them.
So, just one day, suddenly, they said, “Get
out.
You can leave.”
Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: And what difference did international
solidarity make for you?
AI WEIWEI: That moment, I don’t know any
kind of support, because it’s totally sealed.
You cannot get a lawyer.
Your family doesn’t know where you are.
And also, you cannot let any information out.
It’s not possible.
So I don’t know there’s a strong international
outcry.
AMY GOODMAN: Both of your lawyers are currently
in jail?
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, they are still serving time
in jail, five years and 11 years, both of
them.
AMY GOODMAN: Even your imprisonment, your
beating, you turned into an art installation.
AI WEIWEI: Yes.
After I came out, many people questioned me
on how—what it’s like being in that kind
of condition.
So, I found out language is very difficult
to describe it, so I made an exact same situation
in a sculpture, or installation.
And every detail fits exactly like the reality.
AMY GOODMAN: Didn’t you photograph the police
taking you?
AI WEIWEI: No, nobody can photograph it.
My phone was being taken away.
And even police think I have some photos of
the location, because they couldn’t believe
I can make the situation so real.
I told them, “You know, you’re dealing
with an artist.”
So I memorized all the details in the room.
AMY GOODMAN: The iPhone that you use, that
you started Human Flow with, you’re—I
mean, I know you’re holding it right now
in your hand.
You were taking pictures in the studios.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: You take selfies with people
on their phones so that they can have it.
What has that phone meant to you?
AI WEIWEI: I think it works two ways: first,
for me to get first-hand information about
what’s going on in the world, and second,
to reflect my expressions to the world.
So it’s like a mirror, but it works on both
ways.
AMY GOODMAN: But you also are—a main theme
of your work is surveillance, like the Hansel
& Gretel exhibit at the Park Avenue Armory,
drone surveillance.
These phones are the ultimate device for surveillance.
AI WEIWEI: It’s true.
It can examine the world.
But also, it has—you know, it also examines
my life.
And I did many works, talk about surveillance.
In my household, there’s about 25 cameras
set up by police.
And also, inside my room, I later found out
a box under the electricity where it’s,
you know, everywhere.
They really think me as a very dangerous person.
AMY GOODMAN: Before we end of the show, you
are back in the United States right now, though
you’re not living here.
Your film is opening across the United States.
But I do have to ask you about President Trump
and his relationship with your country, with
China, and what he has meant.
Your concerns about him now?
AI WEIWEI: Well, you have a very active president.
Each day it brings surprise to the media and
to people, you know.
His true relationship with China is very hard
to say.
He’s going to visit China very soon.
And, you know, today’s politics, so many
things are hidden.
You never know what’s in his mind.
And also you start to doubt what really United
States policy or principle is.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, look at North Korea.
He calls—
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, in dealing with North Korea,
or in dealing even just with Mexico, you know,
the neighbor, the beautiful neighbor we have
here.
They would call them criminals or rapists.
I mean, it’s—
AMY GOODMAN: You went to the border wall.
AI WEIWEI: Yeah, I—you know, it’s very
hard to take this kind of response, to see
if that’s a true thinking of this man, or
does he really have a right judgment on the
sense?
So it’s very difficult to really make any
kind of analyzing about him.
AMY GOODMAN: You said yesterday at the New
Yorker Festival that China likes him because
he makes America look bad.
AI WEIWEI: I think he has not only make U.S.
look bad, but also [inaudible], you know,
could bring some trouble to U.S. that would
benefit China.
You know, China has been—enjoyed the development
after 9/11, you know, when this world talks
about terrorists.
And China had a long, peaceful development
for quite—over 10-some years.
So, yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Are you worried about President
Trump triggering World War III?
AI WEIWEI: I think the situation is quite
fragile.
And if we talk about the danger, yes, there
is a potential danger there.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we’ll leave it there.
Ai Weiwei, thank you for being here.
Ai Weiwei, the world-renowned Chinese artist
and activist, director and producer of the
new documentary Human Flow.
He also has a major new exhibition opening
in these next weeks in New York City, erecting
security fences and cages across the boroughs
to expose the rise of nationalism and the
closure of borders worldwide.
