AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Last week, ThinkProgress published a report
by senior fellow Ian Millhiser that was headlined
“Brett Kavanaugh said he would kill Roe
v. Wade last week and almost no one noticed.”
The story was declared “fake news” by
a Facebook fact checker with the conservative
outlet The Weekly Standard, which attacked
Ian Millhiser in an editorial headlined “Kavanaugh
Needs No Defense.”
Millhiser wrote that “Supreme Court nominee
Brett Kavanaugh may have committed a very
serious crime—possibly even a sex crime.
Or maybe he didn’t.
That’s what we just learned from an extraordinarily
vague press statement by Sen. Dianne Feinstein,”
unquote.
The editors at The Weekly Standard responded,
quote, “Nope.
That’s not what we 'learned' from Feinstein’s
statement, because you can’t 'learn' that
maybe a thing happened and maybe it didn’t.
… all we’ll learn about the mendacious
commentary on it from hitmen like Millhiser—is
that Senate Democrats are willing to disgrace
themselves and defame a good man in order
to propitiate their most vicious supporters,”
_The Weekly Standard wrote.
For more, we continue our conversation with
Ian Millhiser, the senior fellow at the Center
for American Progress Action Fund and the
editor of ThinkProgress Justice, as well as
Dahlia Lithwick, senior editor at Slate.com.
This is complicated, Ian.
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you please explain what happened?
IAN MILLHISER: Yeah, sure.
I mean, suffice it to say, the folks at The
Weekly Standard don’t like me very much.
I think that their assertion that Brett Kavanaugh
is such a good man is not wearing well this
week.
But what happened?
So there’s two different pieces here, and
I think the first piece is the more important
one.
So, I wrote this piece, and it made a legal
argument.
It said that in Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation
hearing, he said that he would apply something
called the Glucksberg rule in determining
whether or not a right is protected by the
Constitution.
And I took that statement, and then I laid
it against another statement in—he made
in 2017, where he said that Roe v. Wade is
inconsistent with Glucksberg.
So, in his hearing, he said he would apply
Glucksberg.
In 2017, he said Roe v. Wade is inconsistent
with Glucksberg.
It’s not that hard to figure out what he
thinks about Roe v. Wade.
And The Weekly Standard is one of five outlets,
the only ideological outlet—there’s no
liberal outlet that has the power to do this—that
Facebook has given the power to censor other
content that is shared on Facebook, if that
content is deemed to have a factual error.
And so, The Weekly Standard decided—and
it’s this really narrow semantic dispute.
In my headline, I said he said it, and no
one noticed.
You know, does the word “said” mean that
he has to say the exact or not say the exact
words.
I have heard more opinions on that question
this past two weeks than I ever thought possible.
But in any event, they use this power to censor
pieces, to censor my piece, to label it fake
news, to impose the exact same sanction on
me and this piece that would be imposed upon
a piece that claimed that the pope endorsed
Donald Trump or some other completely fabricated
lie.
And what our position has been throughout
all of this is The Weekly Standard are ideological
enemies, so an outlet that personally attacked
me in an editorial last week should not have
the power to censor my work or any other liberal
outlet’s work.
It is a conflict of interest, and Facebook
should strip them of that authority.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, so, let’s talk about what
happened next.
The Intercept, which is the one that broke
the story about the secret letter that Dianne
Feinstein had—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: The Intercept republished your
piece—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —saying, “The story was effectively
nuked from Facebook, with other outlets threatened
with traffic and monetary consequences if
they shared it.”
This is extremely significant.
Explain—this isn’t just—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —The Weekly Standard weighing
in.
Explain what happened with Facebook.
IAN MILLHISER: Sure.
So, the way that Facebook works—so, I mean,
if I can get a little bit into the business
of journalism, I don’t think it’s a big
secret that digital journalism is driven by
clicks.
You know, the more people who come and visit
the site, the more ad revenue you get, and
that means the more journalists you’re able
to employ.
Facebook has a system—and they send about
10 or 15 percent of _ThinkProgress_’s total
traffic to us—Facebook has a system where
if one of these five fact checkers—and again,
it’s four nonpartisan outlets and The Weekly
Standard that has this power—if they deem
something to be fake news, then it loses 80
percent of the traffic it would have gotten
from Facebook.
That’s the first thing that happens.
The second thing is that a push notification
is sent to everyone who shared it, informing
them that it is, quote, “false news.”
And then the third thing that happens is everyone
who shared it, even the people who shared
it before The Weekly Standard weighs in, gets
punished.
All of their content gets downgraded and is
less likely to show up in people’s newsfeeds
from that point forward.
So The Weekly Standard has an extraordinary
power, not just to censor their rival outlets,
but to effectively try to nuke the bottom
line of outlets that they disagree with.
And our position is, look, you know, if I
were a defense attorney and I walked into
court and the prosecutor was sitting there
wearing a black robe and wielding a gavel,
I would say that’s not appropriate, because
you’re not allowed to be the judge of your
own case.
When you are one of the adversaries in a debate,
you shouldn’t also get to judge who is telling
the truth.
AMY GOODMAN: Dahlia, you want to weigh in
here?
DAHLIA LITHWICK: No.
I mean, I couldn’t agree more with Ian.
For one thing, Mark Stern and I had written
a very similar piece about Glucksberg and
Whole Woman’s Health a few days—you know,
at around the same time that Ian wrote his.
Ours didn’t get tagged.
His got tagged entirely for a semantic internal
fight about literally what “said” means.
AMY GOODMAN: And the significance of this?
I mean, Facebook determines what so many people
read.
I mean, it’s as if you’re talking on the
telephone—that’s what it’s basically
become—and the phone company is beeping
out words that it doesn’t agree with, when
Facebook has this kind of monopoly on information
when they deem something as not true.
And I want to take this a step further.
Ian, if you can say who the fact checker was
that deemed your piece fake news?
IAN MILLHISER: Yeah.
So the name of the fact checker, it’s Holmes.
I think his last name is pronounced Lybrand.
And he graduated from college in 2016.
He doesn’t have a law degree.
I mean, based on when he graduated from college,
he’s probably 25 years old.
And what Facebook has done here is they have
given a single 25-year-old staffer at The
Weekly Standard the power to decide which
news gets read and which news does not get
read.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to take this a step further,
because we’ve been talking about this astounding
report of Dr. Blasey Ford, who says she is
now willing to testify before the committee
about what she alleges Brett Kavanaugh did
to her in high school, the attempted rape.
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: Then she’s made available all
sorts of information in The Washington Post
piece—the notes of her therapist in 2012
when she was in couples therapy with her husband
describing what happened to her, and again
in 2013 when she described his attempted rape.
The third man in the room while she alleges
Brett Kavanaugh held her down, groped her,
tried to rip her clothes off and put his hand
over her mouth and she was terrified she could
die—the third man in the room was Mark Judge—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —Brett Kavanaugh’s friend
from the elite prep school.
Mark Judge is a filmmaker who writes for,
among other publications, The Weekly Standard.
IAN MILLHISER: Yeah, yeah.
I mean, there’s a lot of things about Mr.
Judge that I think are sketchy.
He apparently wrote a memoir.
It’s sort of thinly fictionalized.
Instead of calling the school Georgetown Country
Day, which is its actual name, he calls it
Loyola Country Day.
There’s even a character in that book who’s
briefly mentioned named Bart O’Kavanaugh.
And Bart O’Kavanaugh at one point gets drunk
and pukes in a car.
But Mr. Judge’s book is pretty tremendous.
You know, he talks about a lot of drinking
and mistreatment of women.
His yearbook quote at Georgetown—at the
prep school that he and Kavanaugh went to—is
“Some women need to be beaten like a gong,”
or something to that effect.
Or I believe it’s “Some women need to
be beaten regularly like a gong.”
So, this is the character witness that Brett
Kavanaugh is bringing in to say, “Yeah,
I didn’t do it.
You know, he saw what happened, and I wasn’t
there.”
AMY GOODMAN: And the book Mark Judge wrote
is called Wasted: Tales of a GenX Drunk—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —which describes his blackout
drinking and a culture of partying at his
elite high school.
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
Yeah, no, I mean, it’s this extraordinary
book that like, if you were to write something
to destroy your credibility, and to destroy
your credibility particularly in this instance,
where the accusation is that you and a classmate
got drunk and participated in the sexual abuse
of a woman, this book would completely blow
your credibility.
AMY GOODMAN: Dahlia Lithwick, go back to Anita
Hill.
Go back to the hearings.
Of course, the echoes of this are so strong
right now.
DAHLIA LITHWICK: Yeah, I mean, I think it’s
such an amazing—the arc of this is extraordinary,
because if you remember after Anita Hill testified
in front of an all-male Senate Judiciary Committee,
Senate Democrats declined to bring forward
witnesses who would have corroborated her
story on both sides.
It was—
AMY GOODMAN: And chief among those Democrats
at the time—
DAHLIA LITHWICK: —was Joe Biden.
AMY GOODMAN: Senator Joe Biden.
DAHLIA LITHWICK: And it was a disaster.
It was a dumpster fire.
But it led to what we now nostalgically think
about as the Year of the Woman.
And women like Dianne Feinstein, a lot of
women in the Senate, say that was the watershed.
And women were furious at the treatment of
Anita Hill, and pushed women into the Senate
in record numbers.
Here we are at the other end of that arc.
That was, you know, a long time ago, and yet
it seems as though very little has changed.
And if you look at, you map the points of
that story onto what we’re seeing now, here’s
a woman who comes forward reluctantly.
She doesn’t want to be outed.
She is outed.
This all happens after the hearing is formally
over.
I mean, at each turn, it looks exactly the
same.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Anita Hill has issued a
statement on the sexual allegations against—the
sexual misconduct, attempted rape allegations
against Brett Kavanaugh.
She said, “Given the seriousness of these
allegations, the government needs to find
a fair and neutral way for complaints to be
investigated…I have seen firsthand what
happens when such a process is weaponized…”
she said.
So now I want to go back to a clip from the
1991 confirmation hearings for Supreme Court
nominee, at the time, Clarence Thomas, when
Anita Hill testified during the hearing alleging
sexual harassment against Thomas.
This is from Anita Hill’s opening statement.
ANITA HILL: After approximately three months
of working there, he asked me to go out socially
with him.
What happened next, and telling the world
about it, are the two most difficult things,
experiences of my life.
It is only after a great deal of agonizing
consideration and sleepless number of—great
number of sleepless nights that I am able
to talk of these unpleasant matters to anyone
but my close friends.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Dahlia Lithwick, talk about
this, the enormous pressure that Anita Hill
is under.
And right now—I mean, I think something
that goes clearly to the credibility of Dr.
Christine Blasey is that she felt she needed
to tell someone, but did not want to come
forward, did not want this to be made public,
but when reporters started crawling around
her workplace and her home, were there and
asking her to speak, she felt if this story
is going to be told, she wants it to be told
by her.
Now this is going to be at great, great personal
expense, she fears.
DAHLIA LITHWICK: Remember that hearing.
Remember what happened to Anita Hill, that
there were Republicans on that committee who
coined the term “a little bit nutty and
a little bit slutty.”
Right?
She was derided for being promiscuous.
She was derided for being a liar.
They said, “Why didn’t you come forth
at the time?”
I mean, all the questions about her integrity.
You know, “What do you mean, you didn’t
report?”
He was her boss, and she didn’t report?
How is that possible?
And at every turn, given the opportunity to
actually listen to what she was saying or
to malign her personally, the decision was
made to malign her personally.
And she has spent the rest of her life—you
know, she had said after the hearing, “I’m
going to take a year and try to sort out this
sexual harassment in the workplace thing.”
All of these years later, she’s still doing
it.
And so, I think if you look at the ways in
which—and she is amazing, by the way.
I just want to say—like having gone through
the wood chipper, she is extraordinarily hopeful
that the sort of arc of the moral universe
is trending toward fairness.
But the ways in which this maps so perfectly
onto her experience—and immediately when
Dr. Ford came forward, we started hearing
murmurs about “maybe she was drunk” and
“why didn’t she come forward?” and “they
were just kids” and “who among us hasn’t
assaulted a 15-year-old drunkenly at a party?”
And so, in a very profound way, what’s depressing
about this is how little has changed, even
though so much should have changed right after
her hearing.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Ian Millhiser, what do you
foresee for this week?
There were discussions that maybe staffers
would speak to both Brett Kavanaugh—
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: —and Dr. Blasey, but clearly
Dr. Blasey has set the stakes much higher
now by saying she is willing to testify.
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
AMY GOODMAN: She didn’t want to take this
risk, but at this point she feels it is her
only choice.
IAN MILLHISER: Yeah.
I think all eyes are going to be on a handful
of Republican senators, certainly Collins
and Murkowski, who people have been looking
at for a while as like the only realistic
votes against Kavanaugh.
Jeff Flake, who is a flake and like has a
tendency to say big things and then not follow
through on them, but maybe this time he will,
and he will stop a positive vote from happening
on Kavanaugh in the committee.
Maybe Bob Corker.
There’s a handful of Republicans.
And the thing to keep in mind is this: Two
Republican senators have the power to stop
this.
If two Republican senators come forward and
say, “We will vote no on Brett Kavanaugh
until we get to the bottom of this,” that
puts a stop to this.
It stops the Thursday vote in the committee.
It stops Mitch McConnell from ramming this
vote through.
All it takes is two Republican senators to
come forward and say, “We need to know what
happened here before this person is given
a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court
of the United States.”
AMY GOODMAN: So, you already have a number
of senators speaking.
You have Corker, you have Flake, and then
there’s Murkowski and Collins.
There are already four Republicans who are
wavering here.
IAN MILLHISER: They’re wavering.
But what—we need more [than] wavering.
I mean, what we need is definitive statements.
If Jeff Flake wants to stop this, if he wants
to show integrity—and Jeff Flake is retiring,
so he has nothing to lose—the magic words
that Jeff Flake needs to use is “I will
vote no on Brett Kavanaugh if the Thursday
vote is not canceled.”
And until we hear those magic words from Jeff
Flake, you know, he hasn’t said very much.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, Corker also is
retiring.
IAN MILLHISER: Right.
Corker is also retiring.
And, you know, Susan Collins is the senator
from a blue state.
She’s the senator from Maine.
She can run—even before this happened, she
could run for re-election in 2020 as the senator
who saved Roe v. Wade or as the senator who
killed Roe v. Wade.
Now she can be the senator who put someone
who has a credible allegation of attempted
rape on the Supreme Court, or she can be the
person who said, “Stop.”
