This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report. I'm Amy Goodman.
And I'm Juan González. Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers around the country and around the world.
Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Chuck Grassley
has announced the committee will hold another
hearing on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh
next Monday, following the accusations he
attempted to rape a 15-year-old girl at a
party while he was in high school.
Both Kavanaugh and his accuser, professor
Christine Blasey Ford, will testify under
oath.
Ford told The Washington Post that Kavanaugh
and his friend pushed her into a bedroom during
a party and that Kavanaugh then forcibly pinned
her down on a bed and tried to pull off her
clothes.
She says she tried to scream, but that Kavanaugh
put his hand over her mouth to silence her.
On Monday, her attorney, Debra Katz, called
the incident an attempted rape.
She spoke on CNN.
She clearly considers this an attempted rape.
She believes that if it were not for the severe
intoxication of Brett Kavanaugh, she would
have been raped.
[Judge Kavanaugh] denied the accusation and
issued a new statement Monday that, quote,
“I have never done anything like what the
accuser describes—to her or to anyone.
Because this never happened, I had no idea
who was making this accusation until she identified
herself yesterday,” Kavanaugh said.
Dr. Blasey Ford identified Kavanaugh’s friend
as the conservative writer Mark Judge.
Judge once wrote a book about his high school
days, titled Wasted: Tales of a GenX Drunk.
The book describes being an alcoholic in high
school and even features a cameo by someone
he calls “Bart O’Kavanaugh” who vomited
in someone’s car and passed out on his way
back from a party.
On Monday, Republican Senator Susan Collins
welcomed the additional hearing and said if
Kavanaugh lied about what happened, that would
be, quote, “disqualifying.”
It’s important that there be a very thorough
interview and that we see both individuals
respond to the allegations.
There are an awful lot of questions, inconsistencies,
gaps.
And that’s why, to be fair to both, we need
to know what happened.
… Obviously, if Judge Kavanaugh has lied
about what happened, that would be disqualifying.
The accuser, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, is
a professor at Palo Alto University in California
who teaches in a consortium with Stanford
University, training graduate students in
clinical psychology.
Monday’s hearing comes just 50 days before
midterm elections.
Meanwhile, Democrats have called for the FBI
to reopen Kavanaugh’s background check investigation.
Senator Richard Blumenthal told The Washington
Post, quote, “If there’s a hearing before
that investigation, the committee is going
to be shooting in the dark with questions.”
For more, we’re joined here in our New York
studio by Ryan Grim, Washington, D.C., bureau
chief for The Intercept.
Last week, he was the first to report that
Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein had a
secret letter describing an incident involving
Kavanaugh and a woman in high school, and
that Feinstein was refusing to share it with
her Democratic colleagues.
His new piece is headlined “Attorney Sent
Letter to Chuck Grassley and Dianne Feinstein
Claiming Federal Court Employees Willing to
Speak About Brett Kavanaugh.”
Ryan, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Well, let’s start with the tick-tock, if
you will—
Sure.
—of how all this was revealed.
You were the one who broke the story of this
secret letter.
Right.
And if you kind of piece together my reporting
with Ronan Farrow’s reporting, who’s done
some very interesting work on this, too, you
find that on July 6th, she first sent a letter
to Anna Eshoo, her local congresswoman.
And you’re saying “her” because she
was anonymous at the time.
At this time, she was anonymous.
She told her friends, we now know, from a
Mercury News story around that time—she
warned them.
She said, “I’ve reached out to a Washington
Post tip line.
I’ve also reached out to my congresswoman,
and I plan to reach out to my senator.
And the world is going to come down on me.
I’m willing to take the plunge.
This is a decision that I’ve made.”
So, this was July.
Dianne Feinstein says that she can’t recall
if she spoke with Dr. Blasey Ford after getting
the letter.
Her office says they did—that Feinstein
did speak to her.
In any event, as August unfolded, she witnessed
the way that Kavanaugh’s nomination was
marching forward and, for some reason, decided
to walk back.
Ronan Farrow has reported that Feinstein wanted
to make the kind of legal argument against
Kavanaugh rather than a personal argument
against him.
And so, in all of this context she decided,
“OK, you know what?
Maybe this isn’t the right time.
Why destroy my life if Democrats are just
going to roll over, and [he]’s just going
to be confirmed anyway?”
So, in the last week or so—
And meanwhile—
Right.
—during this time, did Feinstein notify
any of the other members of the committee
about what she had?
No, no.
And so, somehow word leaked out to some other
members of the committee in the last week
or two, and they came to her and said, “We
appreciate the role of confidentiality.
We respect victims’ rights here.
But we don’t necessarily want you to unilaterally
make the decision on whether or not this letter
should be sent to federal authorities, whether
there should be further investigation, whether
we can speak to the victim and talk to her
about coming forward.”
And she refused.
She said, “No.”
This is Dr. Christine—
No, this is Feinstein.
Oh, this is Feinstein.
She said, “No, I’m not going to share
the letter.”
And so, once you have a dispute among Democrats
on the committee like that, it’s only a
matter of time until it gets into the press.
So I had sources telling me about this dispute,
that there were Democrats on the committee
who wanted to privately view the letter—not
that they wanted to out the victim, not that
they wanted her to release the letter even,
but that they wanted to just view the letter
privately to see what these allegations were,
to see whether or not there needed to be a
ratcheting up of this situation.
And so, after my story came out, there was
a meeting of the committee Democrats, and
they pressured her.
They said, “You’ve got to do something.”
And so, at that point, she—
What could be her logic for not sharing it
with the other members of the committee?
Not saying she’s going to raise it, but—
Not to get in her head, but she has taken
a much more conservative approach to this
nomination, where her fellow committee members
were disrupting the hearing.
Cory Booker famously released private documents,
which turned out not to be private, but, you
know, there’s been a lot of theater.
And so, perhaps—
Facing expulsion from the Senate.
Right, right.
And he said, “Bring it on.”
And so, perhaps she worried that if she shared
it—although she could have redacted it—but
if she shared it, that it would eventually
leak out.
And to be sure, once other committee members
did find out about it, it did get out into
the press, so she would be correct about that.
And what would be the rationale for not at
least notifying the FBI that there was other
information that they may have to look into,
into Kavanaugh’s background?
Right, the rationale there would be once you
notify the FBI, the FBI puts that document
in his background file, and that background
file is accessible to other committee members.
And once it’s accessible to other committee
members, it may leak out into the public.
So then, Senator Feinstein, though it sounds
like—at least according to Dr. Blasey’s
lawyer, who felt that it was Senator Feinstein
who did the right thing, and she was somewhat
appalled that it got out, apparently.
Right.
I mean, then Senator Feinstein is stopping
even the FBI investigating a possible crime.
Right.
And so, what’s also interesting is that
we—and we’re going to learn more about
this over the years and decades to come: Did
Feinstein ultimately get permission to send
it to the FBI last Thursday?
She has been saying, you know, that since
July, she didn’t turn it over on principle.
Did she cave on that principle because she
was under pressure from her Democratic colleagues,
or did she reach out?
Her attorney says that Feinstein had not reached
out, so we’ll see about that.
But, you know, she made the judgment that
it became untenable to hold it back.
It has had the effect of, in some respect,
discrediting the allegations, because now
Republicans are saying, “Oh, this looks
like a last-minute thing, that you’re just
throwing everything against the wall.
Why didn’t we hear about this before?
You had all these opportunities.”
You know—
And the minority leader of this committee
that was weighing Kavanaugh did not think,
perhaps—I mean, it has the suggestion of—this
was worthy enough to investigate.
Right.
And in some ways, she was—
Though she says—
You know, Dr. Ford was failed by that, in
the sense that she did not come at the last
minute.
You know, as soon as—before he was even
nominated, he was only on the shortlist, and
she was telling friends about this before
he was even on this list of 10 or so approved
nominees.
I want to ask you about your second piece,
because this piece suggests that there could
be other people who have information about
Judge Kavanaugh that has not come forward.
Right.
Could you talk about that piece?
And also, who is Cyrus Sanai?
He is an attorney in California who is the
whistleblower who first called out Judge Alex
Kozinski.
He was the chief judge of the 9th Circuit
Court, who, in December of 2017, was finally
brought down by a series of Washington Post
articles about his sexual harassment in the
workplace over decades.
He came out in 2008 and made these allegations
publicly, filed complaints against him.
This is Sanai, the attorney.
This is Sanai—and has consistently since
then.
The 9th Circuit judges are the ones who police
themselves, so Kozinski stayed on the court
until the combination of the media reports
and the #MeToo movement took him down.
And this is the famously liberal 9th Circuit
Court.
Exactly, that’s right.
And so, because of that, he’s become the
person that you speak to about issues related
to the 9th Circuit Court.
If you’re an employee within that federal
branch, that’s who you would logically reach
out to to talk about blowing the whistle,
because he’s already persona non grata among
these judges and you know he’s going to
protect your confidence.
So, after my original story came out, he reached
out to me and said, “I also sent a letter
to Chuck Grassley and Feinstein in July saying
that there are members of the federal court,
employees of the federal court, who knew and
worked with Kavanaugh and can testify, under
the right circumstances, if they’re protected,
that Kavanaugh is lying about what he knew
about the judge’s behavior.”
Kavanaugh had said he was shocked and saddened
and appalled.
Well, explain Kavanaugh’s relationship with
Judge Kozinski.
Right, it’s very tight.
So, not only was he his clerk in the early
'90s, he became close friends with him afterwards.
And he and Kozinski vetted the clerks that
went to Anthony Kennedy in the Supreme Court,
which is one of the most powerful positions
in the legal world, to vet Supreme Court justices.
Kavanaugh's own clerk last year was Kozinski’s
middle son.
So these are very close people.
And so—
And Kavanaugh was recommended to be Anthony
Kennedy’s clerk, which he was, by Judge
Kozinski.
Yes.
And then Kennedy recommended to Trump that
Kavanaugh be his replacement.
Without Kozinski, you don’t have Kavanaugh.
And so, he has distanced himself, in testimony
and in public statements, from Kozinski’s
behavior.
Interestingly, Mazie Hirono followed up to
him in written questions—
The senator from Hawaii.
Senator Mazie Hirono said, “Please search
your email and check to see if you got any
sexually inappropriate emails from Kozinski,
because to know him for 20 years like this
and to not have is very strange.”
His reply was—instead of the wall of denial
that he gave in his testimony, his reply to
that was “I do not remember receiving any
sexually inappropriate emails.”
And that’s the end of his written reply.
And so, now, according to Sanai, there are
employers who would say, “That’s nonsense.
I know firsthand that Kavanaugh was a witness
to…”—not that Kavanaugh approved of
the behavior, but that he’s lying about
this.
And his credibility is now central to the
accusation of the attempted rape.
I want to get back to the claims of Dr. Blasey
Ford in terms of there was supposedly another
person in the room—
Right.
—when Kavanaugh allegedly sexually assaulted
Professor Blasey Ford, a guy by the name of
Mark Judge.
Could you talk about Mark Judge, who he is?
Yeah.
He’s a known quantity in Washington.
When he was brought out as the character witness
for Judge Kavanaugh, that should have been
setting off alarm bells for everyone.
It’s like bringing out the worst guy in
your crew as the one that you send to The
New York Times to vouch for your character.
If Mark judge is the best you can do, that
is deeply alarming.
People can just google Mark Judge and find
some of his past writings, stuff that’s
racist, that’s misogynist.
He has said, “It’s nice that feminists
say yes means yes and no means no, but there’s
a middle ground.”
Like he has written these words, in print—not
in Facebook posts, not in tweets, but like
in published articles.
You know, so, if this is the person who was
brought out to deny that he would ever do
such a thing—and then, it was not surprising
to find out that he was the accomplice named
by Dr. Blasey Ford as physically, literally,
in the room.
And now Kavanaugh is saying that he wasn’t
at this party, which is an odd denial because
she has not specified what the date was or
what the address was.
So that also raises red flags.
How do you deny being at a party that hasn’t
been specified which party it was?
So, what happens on Monday?
And, of course, I mean, yesterday we had an
extended discussion about this on Democracy
Now!, but it brings us back, of course, to
Anita Hill.
Right, right.
And so, now, as Susan Collins said in the
sound you played earlier, the question moves
from, you know, “Is this behavior disqualifying?”
Because there are a number of Republicans
who are coming out and saying, “Boys will
be boys.
You know, we should forgive behavior like
this by a 17-year-old.”
What Collins has done is move it to “Is
he being truthful about whether or not he
did it?”
And so, a lot of it will come down, unfortunately,
to how credible the witness appears.
And from everything I’ve been able to gather
about her, she is an extremely formidable
woman.
And she has passed a lie detector test.
She has therapist notes from six years ago.
She has other friends that she has confided
in.
She also is somebody who just exudes credibility.
Meanwhile, Kavanaugh has demonstrably perjured
himself in front of the committee already
about whether or not he had exploited stolen
documents back in the 2000s.
Back under—when he worked for President
George W. Bush—
Right.
—around the issue of judicial nominations.
Right, right.
He has said that he did not use these stolen
documents, and that’s a lie.
Like, there are emails that prove that he
did it.
One of the subject lines in one of the emails
said like, “Here’s spy documents.”
Like, you know, it’s like—he’s been
caught red-handed lying about that particular
issue.
And so—
That goes to the issue of perjury because
he was asked about it again.
Right.
And he also has said that he knows nothing
about Alex Kozinski’s behavior, which other
employees will say, “That’s absolutely
absurd.
This was going on for decades.”
And so—
What is your—
Well, what about the issue, though, that—obviously,
in the Anita Hill case, she was alleging conduct
by Clarence Thomas, the Supreme Court nominee,
while they were working together.
It was harassment, she claimed, by him, on
the job.
We’re talking here about an incident that
happened, as people have said, when one person
was 15 and one was 17, if it did happen.
What about the differences in terms of the
situations involved here?
I think one of the interesting differences—I’d
be curious for your take on this, too—is
that in 1991, the behavior that she was describing—not
the specific actions, but the general behavior
of men harassing women in the workplace—was
almost universal.
It was so widespread.
And so, the “There but for the grace of
God go I” attitude of men was much more
pronounced and out in the open.
Like, they were much less ashamed to say,
“Well, maybe we need to change the culture,
but the culture today is what it is.”
There are some men who are hinting that same
thing about attempted rape, but it is much,
much more difficult to publicly say, “Who
amongst us hasn’t tried to rape a woman?”
You know, that’s a—people are making that
claim, in public, but many fewer, and they’re
being called out—and say, “Are you listening
to yourself?
Do you hear what you’re saying?”
And so, that, I think, is a key difference,
that the behavior was criticized but broadly
accepted in 1991, what Clarence Thomas was
doing, whereas nobody can, with a straight
face, say that, “Well, you know, who hasn’t
committed a rape here or there as a teenager?”
And your response to Trump’s response to
all of this, saying go ahead with the hearings
and the delay.
Right.
And I think Trump—like, I think a lot of
people are just going to ignore what Trump’s
position is on this.
Trump stood by Roy Moore through multiple
credible allegations of molesting young girls.
He stood by Rob Porter even after we published
photos of the physical abuse he had committed
towards his first wife.
You know, he has himself boasted of his penchant
for sexual assault.
So, if Mark Judge and Donald Trump are your
character witnesses here, you’re in trouble.
Ryan Grim, we want to thank you for being
with us, Washington, D.C., bureau chief for
The Intercept.
We’ll link to his new piece, “Attorney
Sent Letter to Chuck Grassley and Dianne Feinstein
Claiming Federal Court Employees Willing to
Speak About Brett Kavanaugh.”
And he broke the story that Senator Dianne
Feinstein had a secret letter from an anonymous
woman who was accusing Brett Kavanaugh of
attempted rape when they were both in high
school.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back in a minute.
