AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan González.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
We begin today’s show with shocking new
revelations about the assassination of renowned
Honduran indigenous environmental leader Berta
Cáceres.
On Tuesday, in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, a team
of international lawyers released a new report
that shows how the plot to murder Cáceres
was months in the making and went up to the
highest levels of the company, whose hydroelectric
dam project Cáceres and her indigenous Lenca
community were protesting.
The report’s release celebrated the effort
to push back against the brazen impunity with
which the murder was carried out.
PROTESTERS: Berta no se murió, Berta no se
murió.
¡Justicia!
¡Justicia!
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: “¡Justicia!
Berta!”
“Justice for Berta!”
they chanted, upon the report’s release.
In 1993, Berta Cáceres co-founded the National
Council of Popular and Indigenous Organizations
of Honduras, or COPINH.
For years, the group faced death threats and
repression as they stood up to mining and
dam projects they said were destructive to
their ancestral land.
Then, on March 2nd, 2016, Cáceres was gunned
down just before midnight in her hometown
of La Esperanza.
At the time of her death, she was organizing
indigenous communities to resist the Agua
Zarca Dam on the Gualcarque River, saying
it threatened to contaminate her community’s
water supply.
AMY GOODMAN: Now a team of five international
lawyers have found evidence that the plot
to kill Cáceres went up to the top of the
Honduran energy company behind the dam, Desarrollos
Energéticos, known as ”DESA.”
The lawyers were selected by Cáceres’s
daughter, Bertita Zúniga, and are independent
of the Honduran government’s ongoing official
investigation.
They examined some 40,000 pages of text messages
and say the conversations are proof that the
orders to threaten COPINH and disrupt its
protests came from DESA executives.
The investigation also revealed DESA exercised
control over security forces in the area,
issuing directives and paying for police units’
room, board and equipment.
In their new report, the lawyers write, quote,
“The existing proof is conclusive regarding
the participation of numerous state agents,
high-ranking executives and employees of Desa
in the planning, execution and cover-up of
the assassination.”
For more, we go to Mexico City, where we’re
joined by Elisabeth Malkin.
She’s a reporter for The New York Times,
has read the new report and details its findings
in her article, “Who Ordered Killing of
Honduran Activist?
Evidence of Broad Plot Is Found.”
Elisabeth Malkin, welcome to Democracy Now!
Talk about who did this report and what this
broad plot is.
ELISABETH MALKIN: Well, first of all, thanks
very much for having me.
The report was compiled by five international
lawyers, from the United States, from Colombia,
from Guatemala, who reviewed evidence that
was given to the family of Berta Cáceres
by the Honduran Public Ministry, and really
combed through these text messages.
The text messages were found on phones confiscated,
seized by the Honduran government as part
of their investigation.
And basically, there are three phones: one
seized from the DESA headquarters and two
from suspects.
These suspects are an environmental manager
for DESA and a former security—security
chief for DESA, who had worked for the company
until 2015.
And what these messages show is that the company
executives—and those are not named in the
report, because they have not been indicted—were
in close contact with these two suspects during
the months leading up to the murder in March
of 2016 and in the days afterwards.
So what this is suggesting is that this was
not the action of rogue employees and ex-employees.
This was a much more concerted action.
And what the family hopes is that the report
will push Honduran authorities to investigate
further.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Elisabeth Malkin, for
those who have not followed the Berta Cáceres
case, who is currently in custody in relation
to her murder, and what’s the status of
their arrests?
ELISABETH MALKIN: Of their arrests.
They were arrested—four people were arrested
a couple of months after her murder, and then
additional people were arrested a few weeks
later.
There are eight people in custody.
The two that really stand out are Sergio Orellana,
who was the company’s environment and community
manager—in effect, the person in charge
of relations with the community—and Douglas
Bustillo, who had been the security manager
for the company until the summer of 2015.
Another military officer is also in custody.
And then the rest appear to be people—the
remaining suspects appear to have been people
hired to carry out the killing, based on the
evidence in the report, which details their
movements as they—the days before the murder,
the assassination.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, how many—how many texts
are you talking about that were in the phones
of—in the phones that were taken by the
authorities, but never dealt with for a year
and a half?
Is it something like 40,000?
ELISABETH MALKIN: These were 40,000 pages
of messages.
They’re WhatsApp conversations.
WhatsApp is very widely used in Latin America.
And what the lawyers were able to do is they
used a metadata company that was able to analyze
these.
It’s an awful lot of material to go through.
And the question is that the Honduran authorities
have had this data themselves.
Whether they’ve been able or willing to
analyze it is the question, and what they’ve—you
know, why they haven’t moved more aggressively
to investigate other people in the company
who are on those messages.
Remember, those people are not named, so we
don’t know exactly who they are.
AMY GOODMAN: But they’re—
ELISABETH MALKIN: But it is the job of the
Honduran prosecutors to investigate.
AMY GOODMAN: They’re amazing.
I mean, you quote from this new report about
the plot to kill Berta Cáceres in your story
in the Times.
You write, quote, “An attempt to kill Ms.
Cáceres was planned for early February but
called off, the lawyers said.
'Mission aborted today,' Mr. Bustillo wrote
to a Desa executive.
'Yesterday, we couldn't.’
…
“Mr. Bustillo returned to La Esperanza for
several days at the end of February and arranged
to meet with the same executive on March 2.
Early on March 3, after Ms. Cáceres was killed,
Mr. Bustillo called him again.
“After the killing, Mr. Rodríguez, the
environment manager, forwarded details of
the crime scene report that police had provided
to one of the company’s executives.
“'Sergio, relax,' another executive wrote
through WhatsApp, a few days later.
'Everything will come out O.K. you'll see.
Don’t panic and pass that on to other people.’”
I mean, these quotes and texts and emails
are incredibly damning.
ELISABETH MALKIN: They are, indeed.
And so, the question is why Honduran authorities
haven’t moved more aggressively to investigate.
The way the case looks now—and it’s going
very slowly through the courts, which is normal
for Honduras.
But the way the case looks now, you have one
rogue employee, one ex-rogue employee, just
kind of acting on their own.
And these texts show us that that’s very
difficult to accept and that more needs to
be done.
And I did speak with Berta’s daughter, and
she said, “That’s what our hope is,”
that, you know, this will push authorities
to move and investigate the company more thoroughly
and determine who ordered this.
It’s very common in Latin America for the
material authors of a crime to be tried, but
the intellectual authors are—somehow succeed
in remaining at large.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And the decision of the writers
of the report to not name the executives that
were participating in these text messages,
why was that?
ELISABETH MALKIN: Well, these are human rights
investigators, they’re not prosecutors,
and so that they determined that it was not
appropriate to release those names.
AMY GOODMAN: So, can you talk about the significance
of Berta Cáceres?
Talk about her work and why the company may
have wanted her dead.
ELISABETH MALKIN: This is what’s very strange,
and I was talking with one of the investigators,
one of the lawyers, about this.
This was not a large dam.
This was a dam being built on the Gualcarque
River.
More dams were planned.
But from the beginning, the company was very
determined to push forward with this dam.
Now, under international law, in indigenous
communities, there is a requirement to consult
with the community before any project like
that.
And that is widely ignored or simulated across
Latin America.
And so, this, I think, became a test case.
And Berta was a very strong leader.
The organization that she led and that her
daughter now leads is called COPINH.
And there was a great deal of violence against
COPINH before the murder.
The protest by COPINH had succeeded in driving
away the construction company, a Chinese construction
company.
And it had also forced DESA, the dam developer,
to move the dam to the other side of the river.
The company did have foreign funding from
European development banks, from a Central
American development bank, and so it became
a kind of battle of wills.
In 2015, Berta Cáceres won the Goldman Prize,
which is really the kind of Nobel Prize for
grassroots environmental activists.
And the hope was that it would protect her.
And it didn’t, obviously.
So, this case is really a sign of how far
companies are willing to go to push through
projects like this.
For Honduras, it’s a sign—it’s a test
case of impunity.
Honduras is a country where a very small number
of people control large parts of the economy,
and they have strong links to the government.
They’re often in the government.
And the question is—and these economic actors
basically have been able to do what they want
to do.
And Berta’s—the COPINH’s resistance
really was a sign that, “No, you can’t
do exactly what you want to do.
We will try to stop you.”
And so, this investigation is really a test
case for whether this impunity should—if
there’s a way to counteract this impunity.
In 2015, Hondurans marched in the streets
across the country, not in Tegucigalpa only,
to protest corruption and impunity.
It was a massive outpouring.
And they demanded an international panel,
similar to what Guatemala now has, to investigate
corruption and impunity.
And there—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, Elisabeth—Elisabeth
Malkin, I just wanted to ask you—in relationship
to those mass protests, Honduras is scheduled
to have elections later this month.
I’m wondering your sense of whether the
Berta Cáceres case is going to have and what’s—the
lack of resolution by the government is going
to have any impact on those elections.
ELISABETH MALKIN: I don’t think it will
have a strong impact.
The current president, Juan Orlando Hernández,
is leading.
He faces a number of candidates who oppose
him.
But the leading group is an alliance of different
parties.
And I think that, really, the issues of corruption
and poverty are those that predominate, and
security—corruption, poverty and security.
And so, Berta Cáceres’s case is part of
that, but I don’t think it’s going to
be the key factor.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to go to Berta Cáceres
herself, back in 2013, speaking to Democracy
Now!
BERTA CÁCERES: [translated] The population
today, those who have been in resistance who
are from the LIBRE party, are challenging
the repressive apparatus, with the absence
of the construction of real power from the
communities, but now these people are voting
enthusiastically for the LIBRE party, that
we hope will be distinct from the other political
parties.
This scenario is playing out in all the regions
of Honduras—in Zacate Grande, Garifuna communities,
campesino sectors, women, feminists, artists,
journalists and indigenous communities.
We all know how these people have been hard
hit, especially the journalists, LGBTQ community
and indigenous communities.
This is all part of what they’ve done to
create a climate of fear.
Here, there’s a policy of the state to instill
terror and political persecution.
This is to punish the Honduran people so that
people don’t opt for the other way and look
for changes to the political economic situation
and the militarization.
AMY GOODMAN: That was Berta Cáceres speaking
in 2013 to Democracy Now!
One person who helped with this report is
Miguel Ángel Urbina Martínez, a criminal
justice expert from Guatemala and adviser
on judicial reform.
We only have 30 seconds, but, Elisabeth Malkin,
can you talk about the lessons to draw from
Honduras now, as we see the same kind of fight,
fighting impunity, the very powerful elite
tied to the government and the murky military
ties?
ELISABETH MALKIN: Compared with Guatemala,
Guatemala has been really a model for the
region, and Hondurans who protested want that
model.
They have—there is another—there is a
model—a group with a little less power,
but they’re beginning to make their voices
heard.
This is the MACCIH.
They have begun to investigate DESA and the
way it was able to win a lot of contracts.
So this is perhaps the first crack for Honduras
in this impunity.
And, you know, with—
AMY GOODMAN: And do you see any Agua Zarca
executives being arrested now that this information
is out?
ELISABETH MALKIN: I really couldn’t say.
Certainly, there will be pressure for an investigation.
But it’s hard to tell whether the government
is willing to move forward on this.
AMY GOODMAN: Elisabeth Malkin, we thank you
for being with this, a New York Times reporter.
We’ll link to your piece, “Who Ordered
[the] Killing of Honduran Activist [Berta
Cáceres]?
Evidence of Broad Plot is Found.”
Elisabeth Malkin works for The New York Times.
She writes from Mexico City.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back on why the San Juan mayor,
Carmen Yulín Cruz, went to Washington to
testify before Congress, and then the hearing
was canceled.
Stay with us.
