AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, as we go to Part 2 of our
conversation about the escalating conflict
in Spain over Sunday’s independence referendum
in the northeast region of Catalonia.
More than 800 people were injured, after Spanish
police stormed polling stations, tried to
forcibly prevent people from voting, firing
tear gas and physically attacking voters and
prospective voters.
The Spanish government says the referendum
is illegal.
Ahead of Sunday’s vote, Spanish police seized
control of ballots and fliers, raided the
Catalan regional government offices, even
shut down pro-independence websites.
Late Sunday night, the Catalan regional government
said 90 percent of Catalan voters chose independence.
About 2.2. million Catalans voted out of 5.3
million voters.
The Catalan government now says it plans to
unilaterally declare independence from Spain
within 48 hours.
Spain says it will neither recognize the results
of the referendum nor a declaration of independence,
the escalating conflict being described as
the biggest constitutional crisis in Spain
since the end of the Franco dictatorship in
the ’70s.
We are continuing our conversation with two
guests.
In Cleveland, Ohio, Sebastiaan Faber is with
us, professor of Hispanic studies at Oberlin
College and author of the forthcoming book
Memory Battles of the Spanish Civil War: History,
Fiction, Photography, co-author of a piece
in The Nation headlined "Have Spain and Catalonia
Reached a Point of No Return?"
Here in New York, Pau Faus, filmmaker, writer
from Barcelona.
His recent documentary Ada for Mayor follows
the campaign of the Barcelona mayor, Ada Colau.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
to continue this conversation.
Professor Faber, I know you only have a few
minutes, and I was wondering, you say that
have—you asked the question, "Have Spain
and Catalonia reached this point of no return?"
You are also an expert in the Franco years,
in the Spanish Civil War.
Put those two together.
Were you shocked by what you saw?
SEBASTIAAN FABER: Yes, I really was shocked.
Even though we all knew that the Spanish state
had shipped around 10,000 police from the
rest of Spain into Catalonia and that the
Spanish state was continually saying, "The
referendum will not happen.
We’ll do whatever it takes to make it not
happen," to see regular citizens of all ages
being dragged out of the polling places, and
what were really peaceful democratic gatherings
disrupted by these men with dark masks on
and weapons in their hands, was really shocking.
And it really, like I said earlier, confirmed
the worst image that Catalans have of the
Spanish state, which is that it’s a structure
that won’t allow them to be themselves,
that won’t respect who they are.
I think it’s important to point out that
even though 90 percent of the people that
went out to vote voted in favor of independence,
polls indicate that between 40 and 50 percent
of Catalans currently believe that they want
to be independent, even though the details
of what independence would look like are yet
to be determined.
What is important to realize, though, is that
over 80 percent of catalanes believe they
have the right to self-determination.
This is not something that’s included in
Spain’s current constitution, but it is
a sentiment that really lives among the catalanes,
which to me indicates that it’s high time
that the Spanish constitution be updated and
that a new process be initiated in Spain to
revise this 1978 constitution, which has clearly
outlived its usefulness.
The current Spanish government in Madrid is
refusing to acknowledge that.
And I think the point of no return has been
reached, if it is true that the Spanish government
in Madrid will refuse to acknowledge the need
for constitutional reform.
There are other parties that have—the Socialist
Party and Podemos have said it’s time for
constitutional reform.
And that can only happen through dialogue.
And that means that Spanish conservatives
have to come to terms with the fact that Spain
is a multinational state.
And that is something that the Franco regime
consistently refused to acknowledge.
And I think Rajoy’s statements last night,
in which he praised the catalanes who stayed
home and did not vote, and didn’t say anything
about the suffering of the people that did
go out and voted, to me, shows his incapacity
of including, of inviting those people back
into the fold of the Spanish state.
To me, it sounded, honestly, like 1492 or
1939, those moments in Spanish history where
Spain, the Spanish state, dealt with dissidents
and dealt with people who didn’t fit in
by either exterminating them, putting them
in prison or expelling them directly out of
the country.
So I think this—the attitude from Madrid
is completely—it’s nonrealistic, to begin
with, but politically it doesn’t make any
sense at all in the long term.
In the short term, it may be true that this
zero-tolerance approach to Catalonia from
Madrid will yield Rajoy’s Partido Popular,
the conservative party in Spain, some electoral
support.
There have been some worrisome manifestations
in Spain throughout these past—this past
month, of extreme-right-wing, neo-Francoist
manifestations in support of a united Spain,
calling for the Catalan, quote-unquote, "traitors"
to be executed.
So there are ways in which sort of the ugly
face of the centralist Spanish right is showing
itself at this point, but it’s really disconcerting
that Rajoy won’t condemn those manifestations
of extreme-right-wing nationalism, nor that
he will acknowledge the genuine desire on
the part of the overwhelming majority of people
living in Catalonia to determine their own
fate and their own place within the Spanish
state.
And one other point I want to quickly make
is that the independence movement, despite
the fact that it’s been coopted in a way
by the Catalan right as a way to shore up
its own electoral base, that independence
movement is genuine, and it’s also extremely
diverse.
It includes people from the countryside, from
the cities.
It includes recent immigrants.
It includes people of all ages.
It’s a genuine popular movement that cannot
be stopped and that certainly will not back
down, after what happened yesterday.
Reactions from the Spanish state like those
that we saw yesterday will only increase the
support for independence, because many Catalans,
friends of mine, are saying, "Look, I wasn’t
in favor of independence first, but I don’t
want to belong to this Spain.
This Spain is not—I don’t feel any affection,
any—none of my identity lines up with this
Spain that we saw yesterday.
So maybe we should leave."
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, I wanted to ask
you, Professor Faber, about the meeting of
the Spanish prime minister, Mariano Rajoy,
and President Trump last week, and the significance
of that meeting.
SEBASTIAAN FABER: I think this meeting was
not very significant, to be honest.
In Spain, in any case, it did not shift any
positions at all.
Trump’s lip service to Rajoy’s request,
obviously, that he had made of "please stand
by me," from saying, "I don’t think it’s
a good idea for the Catalonians to leave Spain,"
it was so clearly made from a total ignorance
of the Spanish situation that it had no—as
far as I can tell, no repercussion at all
really in Spain itself or in the European
Union, for that matter, where Trump’s capital
is minimal, as far as I can tell.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to go to that meeting
last week.
During Spanish Prime Minister Rajoy’s visit
to the United States, Trump said Spain should
remain united, and predicted Catalans would
vote to stay part of Spain.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I think that Spain
is a great country, and it should remain united.
We’re dealing with a great, great country,
and it should remain united.
... I’m just for a united Spain.
I speak as the president of the United States,
as somebody that has great respect for your
president and also has great, really great
respect for your country.
I really think the people of Catalonia would
stay with Spain.
I think it would be foolish not to, because
you’re talking about staying with a truly
great, beautiful and very historic country.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Pau Faus, you live in Barcelona,
but you were here this past week as you show
the film Ada for Mayor, about Ada Colau, the
mayor of Barcelona.
What was your response to President Trump
as he predicted, you know, Catalans would
vote to remain a part of Spain, and congratulating
Rajoy?
PAU FAUS: I don’t know.
I mean, he looks quite far away from what
happens there.
So, as the professor said, I think what Trump
said about Catalonia and Spain was quite irrelevant,
from Spain and, I assume, also from here.
I mean, I didn’t—it’s the first time
I see it, and I’ve been here for two weeks.
So, I don’t think it was something relevant,
really.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, let’s go to Rajoy, in
Spain, speaking on Sunday, the Spanish prime
minister saying Catalonia failed to hold an
independence referendum and that the people
of Catalonia had been tricked into taking
part in the banned vote.
PRIME MINISTER MARIANO RAJOY: [translated]
At this hour, I can tell you in the strongest
terms what you already know and what we have
seen throughout this day.
There has not been a referendum on self-determination
in Catalonia today.
We have not attended to any sort of consultation,
but a mere staging, a new episode of a strategy
against democratic coexistence and legality.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s the Spanish prime minister,
Mariano Rajoy.
You usually live in Barcelona, the—
PAU FAUS: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —what would be the capital
of an independent Catalonia.
Your response?
PAU FAUS: It sounds from another country,
you know, from another planet, really.
To deny what happened yesterday, it only helps
to widen the gap, you know?
That’s what happens, because many people
from Spain, what they see is what he says
and what they read and what they see on TV.
And, of course, they see a reality that—it’s
a possible point of view, but it’s so different
from the perception that we have from Catalonia.
And it’s so sad to see that the two reactions
to a same situation are so different.
And to say that there was not a referendum,
of course there was not, because it was not
possible to do it.
But to deny—
AMY GOODMAN: Because they prevented it, right?
PAU FAUS: Yeah, of course.
AMY GOODMAN: Rajoy’s people, the state of
Spain.
PAU FAUS: But also, to deny that there was
a totally not proportionated use of violence,
to a level that people haven’t seen in many,
many years, and just not to talk about this,
and to say the response was the correct response,
nothing happened, you know, kind of a denial,
that’s what the professor was saying before.
Many people who are not pro-independence—I
am not pro-independence—feel this is not—we
don’t want to belong to this, you know?
And that’s why it’s so important that
political parties, like the party from Ada
Colau and other political parties, are trying
to build a in-between space between these
two extreme situations, because many people
would feel comfortable in this in-between
space, at least to dialogue, you know, and
then let’s see what we do.
But right now it’s "I don’t want to talk
to you," "I don’t want to talk to you."
And these things keep on happening.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain your position?
PAU FAUS: My position is that there should
be probably now one international mediation
for these two very opposite points of view
to be able to talk.
And everybody in Catalonia, it’s up to 80
percent of Catalans know or say that the solution
is a referendum that is, you know, together
with the state, just like they did in Scotland.
AMY GOODMAN: You mean you want to legal referendum.
PAU FAUS: Of course, yeah.
Eighty percent of Catalans are for a legal
referendum.
That’s the main thing.
Around 50—we still don’t know, because
it’s not easy, but around 50 could be for
independence.
But 80 percent are for that this should be
solved out with a legal referendum.
And that’s something that we should, as
many people as possible, work for, you know?
AMY GOODMAN: Why are you not for independence?
And do you feel that you may change your view,
given what has taken place?
PAU FAUS: No, it’s not if I am or I’m
not.
Many people—if you asked many people in
Catalonia 10 years ago, the independence movement
was not as strong, you know?
But the way the Spanish government has treated
Catalonia and the way maybe this identity
that the Catalans have, like the professor
said, this idea of a multi-identity state,
multi-country—you know, like different states
in one state, that Spain is, this has been
denied very strongly.
So, if you have this and you add the economical
crisis, the pro-independence movement has
been very high, you know?
It’s growing a lot.
And I think that many people agree that—and
I also agree with this—that there should
be a referendum to decide how do we live together.
I mean, the way Spain and Catalonia live together,
it’s what was decided 40 years ago.
And many people think this should be updated.
And I agree with this.
So, I cannot know what I would choose, because
right now there are no positions.
One are saying, "We want to leave," and the
other one say, "You cannot leave."
You know?
I think, in a proper referendum, we would
have—if Catalonia becomes independent, that’s
what we will have.
If you stay in Spain, that’s what you will
have.
And that’s never been the discussion.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you explain who the Catalan
leader is, Puigdemont?
What is his background?
PAU FAUS: Well, he was president—he was
chosen as president because the main leader
of the right-wing party in Catalonia, that
was supposed to be the president, was not
wanted by the radical left wing, that is now
together with the political party that is
for the independence.
So, Puigdemont was like a figure that came
out of the—out of nowhere.
He was the mayor of a city in Catalonia, Girona.
And he was like a fresh leader to make possible
a coalition of very different political parties.
Right now, the government in Catalonia is
some of extreme-left parties, left parties
and right-wing parties.
And to make this possible for the extreme-left
parties, it was necessary to have a new leader.
So he came out of nowhere a little bit.
But in these last months, he has become like
the image of—he has become the leader of
this movement, of course.
AMY GOODMAN: Can you talk about how Catalan
separation would affect Spain?
I mean, isn’t Catalonia a large part of
Spain’s industrial base, representing something
like 20 percent of the Spanish economy?
PAU FAUS: I really cannot talk about this,
because it’s like very technical things.
I mean, I think it’s more about the fact
that there is a sense of identity, that of
course I share, which is a language and a
history in Catalonia.
And this identity has not been well treated,
to say like this, from the Spanish government,
the right-wing government and Mariano Rajoy.
And I don’t think that the thing is about
what would we lose, what would we win.
I think it’s more about we have to decide
how to live together, you know?
I think this is the main thing.
The other are secondary things.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to talk about the position
of Ada Colau, I mean, a true rising star in
Spanish politics, from Barcelona, the current
mayor.
She clearly has been attacked from all sides
now.
She isn’t—hasn’t taken a pro-independence
stand.
She isn’t—well, why don’t you explain
what her stance is?
PAU FAUS: Well, you know, she comes from this
space that, as I told you, many people come
from, that many people in Catalonia, we are
not pro-independence, but seeing what is happening.
And for many people, this was not like a priority.
You know, we have many problems, many social
problems, many economical problems.
So, those were the main topics in the agenda
of people like Ada Colau.
But in the last years, many of us have been
forced, because the situation is so polarized,
to position, you know, yes or no.
And what Ada Colau and her party is doing
is something that is very difficult, but,
from my point of view, very necessary.
In Catalonia, you have right now seven political
parties in the Parliament.
Three of them are pro-independence.
Three of them are against independence.
And one of them, which is the party that is
not yet in the Parliament because it is a
very new party, but it has a very strong influence,
which is Catalunya en Comú, is—has no problem
in having people in the party who are pro
or against, you know?
AMY GOODMAN: And this is Ada Colau’s party.
PAU FAUS: Yes.
And what they mainly defend is that the main
goal is we have to vote.
If we go for this, we are 80 percent of the
population in Catalonia.
Once we have this legal referendum, then let’s
decide what do we want to vote, which are
the options.
So she represents this, for me, very important
space that is this in-between space, that
is now being very—it’s a very uncomfortable
zone, but it’s very necessary.
And it’s also the space that Podemos is
also, you know, defending from the rest of
Spain.
And I think that’s where the solution must
come from, you know, because people have to
be able to dialogue.
What has happened is the failure of politics.
I mean, there’s no dialogue.
There’s no solutions.
It’s like we are not going to talk about
this.
And this, of course, is not the way to solve
it.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to go to a clip from your
film.
Interestingly, you’re here at this time
promoting your new film on Ada Colau, on the
mayor of Barcelona, at this time when this
major crisis takes place in your region, in
your city, in all of Catalonia.
I want to turn to a clip from the film Ada
for Mayor, directed by Pau Faus.
This is the Barcelona mayor, Ada Colau.
ADA COLAU: [translated] That’s what we mean
when we talk about feminizing politics.
You can be in politics without being a strong,
arrogant male who’s ultra-confident, knows
the answer to everything, has no doubts.
There are other ways.
I had the goal of showing that you can be
in politics, aiming to win, without those
characteristics, and with doubts and contradictions
like normal people, and be able to show this
and talk about it openly.
But that doesn’t work in politics, because
your own people want you to always be there,
to be strong, to lead and to not have any
doubts.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Ada Colau, the mayor
of Barcelona, in the new film directed by
Pau Faus called Ada for Mayor.
So, talk about the rise of Ada Colau, the
improbable rise of a woman whose symbol had
become this video of her being dragged by
police, being arrested for protesting evictions.
PAU FAUS: Well, I met her.
I met Ada Colau in the PAH movement, PAH,
that in Spanish stands for the Platform of
People Affected by Mortgages.
One of the main problems, as you know, in
Spain during the worst years of the crisis
were the evictions.
And the image of the families being evicted
was like the image of the crisis in Spain.
And the anti-eviction movement was a very
strong movement, and it became very popular.
And she was the spokeswoman of the movement.
She also became very popular, and—because
of what you said, you know, the images of
defending the houses or defending the occupations
of banks and also many, many different situations.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain that, though, for people
in the United States, that this particular
movement, taking on banks—
PAU FAUS: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —and occupying homes where
people couldn’t pay their mortgages anymore.
PAU FAUS: Yes, yeah.
I mean, one—as I said, the economic crisis
had a very strong and sad image in Spain that
were the families being evicted, families
that lost their jobs, that could not be able
to pay their mortgages, and they were evicted
from their houses.
But even according to Spanish law, many times
a part of your debt stays even if you are
evicted.
So you are evicted, and you’re still owing
a lot of money to the bank.
So this was a very—unfortunately, a common
situation for many people in Spain.
And there was this movement, the Platform
for People Affected by Mortgages, that started
to fight against this.
And one of the classical images was like,
"OK, we’re going to stop the evictions,"
so people went in front of the house, and
we are not—this eviction is not going to
happen.
And this worked.
And many neighbors came to help.
You know the things started to grow.
And one of the other things they did was to
occupy bank offices.
OK, you have a mortgage with this person,
and you took the house, and you still are
asking for I don’t know how much, thousands
of euros, and this is not fair, and this should
be solved in a way.
So, until we don’t solve this, we are not
going to leave the office.
So this was another action.
Another action that you could see in the public
space were like the occupation of houses that
were owned by the banks.
Since the banks were rescued with public money,
the anti-eviction movement said, "OK, then
your building must have a public use.
So, I don’t have a house.
You have been rescued with public money.
This building should be used for a public
service, so we occupy your houses that are
our houses."
So all of these actions—very strong, some
of them—became—had a very good—I mean,
many people in Spain, even from right-wing
positions, approved this.
You know, the image of the banks being rescued
and the families being evicted was something
that nobody liked.
And Ada Colau and the anti-eviction movement
became very popular.
She was invited to many shows on TV.
So she became like the image of these—of
these people that were self-organizing to
do what the government was not doing.
AMY GOODMAN: And you, yourself, was involved
with this movement.
PAU FAUS: And I was there.
And I was there, and I was in charge of filming
what was happening.
And I was there for one year and a half or
two.
And I met her and many other people, of course.
So, when she and many other people decided
to make this step and to try to win the elections
for the Barcelona City Council, because many
people said, "OK, maybe now it’s the time
to go for the institutions, you know?"—like
another tool, not like something that is a
substitution of the other, but institutions
would be also another tool—social movements,
institutions.
So, this political movement was made.
It was a citizen movement and made by the
people, that invited the left parties to be
part of it, but it grew from the people.
And since I knew her from the activist—from
her activist years, I already had the intuition
that it was going to be like a very interesting
journey for her—I mean, the activist going
to trying to be the mayor, from activism to
political institutions.
So, the film, Ada for Mayor, is about this
year, about the whole campaign.
You can see how the group is organizing and,
you know, learning and improving and, you
know, growing.
But at the same time, in the film, as you
saw before, what we see is Ada Colau talking
to the camera and telling us how is she feeling
during this journey.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to go to the trailer for
the film.
This very much portrays it.
This is the trailer for the new film Ada for
Mayor.
UNIDENTIFIED: [translated] Watch out!
EVICTED WOMAN: [translated] Why are they doing
this?
We’re not criminals!
This is our home!
PROTESTERS: [translated] We will stop this
eviction!
PROTESTER: [translated] We have to get rid
of them!
We, the less fortunate, are the majority,
those of us without homes, jobs, money, without
children because they leave!
PROTESTERS: [translated] Yes, we can!
Yes, we can!
JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMÚDEZ DE CASTRO: [translated]
They claim to represent the people, but the
best way to do that is by running in an election.
ADA COLAU: [translated] How do I imagine these
recordings we’re starting today?
People are tired of losing, tired of being
ignored.
ORGANIZER 1: [translated] Are we able to change
this?
Are we being too bold by proposing this?
ADA COLAU: [translated] The big news is that
we started negotiations this week, and we
had absolutely no idea what we were getting
ourselves into.
ORGANIZER 2: [translated] Putting this face
on the ballot reinforces the idea that this
is "Ada Colau and her fans."
GEMMA NIERGA: [translated] You criticize old-school
politics for their personality cults, but
now you’re taking part in it.
ADA COLAU: [translated] I can’t be the Ada
I’ve always been.
Do we have a hypothesis?
Do we or don’t we?
I’m starting to be in a bad mood.
Let’s not go in there like fools, which
is what we’re being.
I’m going in blindly with no idea what to
expect.
A serious party can’t act like this.
CAMPAIGN STAFF: [translated] Yes, we can!
GERARDO PISARELLO: [translated] Well done!
CROWD: [translated] Mayor!
ADA COLAU: [translated] Trias is calling me.
UNIDENTIFIED: [translated] Call from Xavier
Trias!
AMY GOODMAN: That’s the trailer for Ada
for Mayor, talking about Ada Colau, the new
mayor of Barcelona.
And that last clip that we saw, where she
looks down at her phone and she’s getting
a call from the incumbent mayor, who lost,
that’s not what the predictions were, and
she understands she has just become mayor
of Barcelona.
The first woman mayor of Barcelona?
PAU FAUS: Yeah, in many years, yes.
AMY GOODMAN: So, we’re talking to Pau Faus,
the filmmaker and writer of this documentary,
in the United States to talk about the film.
So talk about that rise and what it means,
and especially Ada Colau being a woman.
PAU FAUS: Yeah, I mean, one of the—one of
the topics in the film—there are many, but
is the fact that she was fighting against
mainly male politicians.
So she was the first woman to have real chances
to become the mayor, and—but not only a
woman, she was also—she and her team were
also outsiders.
I mean, only one of the 11 deputies that they
have in the City Hall had been there before,
you know, so many new people were there.
So this idea of the outsiders, that come from
the activist movement.
So, this whole thing is in the film.
And I think that’s what you get to—you
have a very privileged point of view, because
we are very close to her.
You know, we see how the whole thing is—the
evolution of the whole thing.
But at the same time, we have this person
talking to the camera in this kind of video
diaries, that you also see in the trailer,
telling us what she has learned.
"OK, we made this mistake."
You know, so, this idea of people that come
from social movements that are more transparent,
that share more what is happening, also being
a woman, to share the emotions, the fears,
the mistakes—all of this is in the film,
and also the difficulty of sharing this in
real politics.
And the feedback that I get from the States,
because I presented the film already here
in—first time, in February, in Starr Bar
in Brooklyn, and it was a screening organized
by the Rosa Luxemburg Foundation, who is part
also of the film.
I also came back in July, and I showed the
film in the Michael Moore film festival, the
Traverse City Film Festival.
AMY GOODMAN: In Michigan.
PAU FAUS: In Michigan, yeah.
It was a very nice festival.
And the reception was very good.
It also won the best opera prima of the festival,
so it was like a very good feedback.
And also, these last two—this last week,
the film was showed here in New York in the
Impugning Impunity Film Festival, organized
by the Abraham Lincoln Brigade Archives.
AMY GOODMAN: The Abraham Lincoln Brigades
being the Americans who went to fight against
Franco in Spain.
PAU FAUS: Yes, yes, there was also this connection.
And we also show it in the DCTV, where you
started.
So it’s like—
AMY GOODMAN: Where Democracy Now!
first broadcast on television.
PAU FAUS: Yes.
So, this is the third time we’re here.
And always the feedback is that the film—also
what happened in the States—helps.
The film communicates a lot of hope and the
idea of that it is possible, you know, to
make a change, if you organize and you really
believe in it.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Pau Faus, let me bring
this back to what has just taken place—
PAU FAUS: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —which, to say the least, is
historic, what has happened in Spain.
PAU FAUS: Yes, it is.
Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: And Spain and Catalonia will
never be the same after yesterday.
PAU FAUS: No, no, no.
AMY GOODMAN: Eight hundred people injured
in a vote that Catalonians—that Catalans
attempted to make, and Spanish police tried
to break it up.
So, how does this affect Ada Colau, who didn’t
take a position specifically on this before
the attempted vote?
But now the mass violence, she has clearly
decried it.
Do you think this will change her politics,
as well?
PAU FAUS: No.
I mean, there is a perception that she and
her political party did not take a point—a
position.
And I disagree totally with this.
They always took the position that this should
be dialogued, and this should be voted with
a legal referendum, which is something very
difficult.
But that has been always the position.
But to defend this position that—it’s
true, it’s very difficult to achieve.
We saw what happened yesterday, not even a
legal referendum, because it was very difficult
to make it—was enough.
And the reaction of the Spanish government,
I mean, what we saw yesterday, is very far
away from this objective.
But this objective is what they have been
defending, and that I think it’s the only
solution.
So, they do have a point of view, but it’s
difficult to stand for this point of view
when you see images like yesterday.
So, other things become a priority.
So, after yesterday, the city of Barcelona,
as I said before, offered medical assistance
to the people, offered a legal assistance.
They are considering, as the city, to maybe
take legal actions against what happened yesterday.
AMY GOODMAN: Against the Spanish police?
Against Rajoy?
PAU FAUS: Yeah, or I don’t know who, but
they are studying this, the vulnerability
of human rights.
So all of this is now on the table.
And, of course, this kind—
AMY GOODMAN: And what will it mean if Puigdemont
does declare independence, as he says he will,
in these next hours?
PAU FAUS: I don’t know.
I mean, I think—I think that many people
agree that what happened yesterday is a very
strong—it’s something that puts the conflict
into an international point of view, so it’s
something that many people probably today
would not be talking about it if it didn’t
happen, what happened yesterday.
But at the same time that many people says
that this day makes like a change, many people
also think maybe it’s not enough to declare
the independence.
So this is something they will have to deal
with.
I don’t know.
But the truth is that the conflict is not
solved.
And I don’t think—and I think everybody
would agree with this—it would not be solved
by declaring the independence.
So, many other things have to be done.
