AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
the War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
President Donald Trump lashed out at Iran
Sunday, warning he was prepared to unleash
dire “consequences” on Iran if its president
threatens the United States again.
In a Sunday evening tweet addressed to Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani and written in all
caps, Trump wrote, ”NEVER, EVER THREATEN
THE UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER
CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT
HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE.
WE ARE NO LONGER A COUNTRY THAT WILL STAND
FOR YOUR DEMENTED WORDS OF VIOLENCE & DEATH.
BE CAUTIOUS!” he tweeted.
Trump’s threat came just hours after Rouhani’s
speech earlier Sunday, in which the Iranian
president warned the U.S. about pursuing a
hostile policy against his government.
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI: [translated] Mr.
Trump, don’t play with the lion’s tail.
This would only lead to regret.
You will forever regret it.
… We have been the guarantor of the regional
waterway’s security throughout history.
Remember, we established the security of oil
shipping routes throughout history.
Don’t forget this.
… You are not in a position to incite the
Iranian nation against Iran’s security and
interests.
The Iranian nation knows its interests and
sacrifices to protect it.
You are mistaken.
AMY GOODMAN: This comes as the United States
has stepped up pressure on Iran, saying it
will reimpose sanctions, after Trump decided
to withdraw from a 2015 nuclear deal that
was crafted by the Obama administration.
In a speech Sunday to a largely Iranian-American
audience, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo compared
Iran’s leaders to a “mafia” and promised
unspecified backing for Iranians who are unhappy
with their government.
Pompeo spoke at the Ronald Reagan Presidential
Library outside Los Angeles.
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO: The level
of corruption and wealth among Iranian leaders
shows that Iran is run by something that resembles
the mafia more than a government.
… The regime’s revolutionary goals and
willingness to commit violent acts haven’t
produced anyone to lead Iran that can be remotely
called a moderate or a statesman.
Some believe that President Rouhani and Foreign
Minister Zarif fit that bill.
The truth is, they’re merely polished frontmen
for the ayatollah’s international con artistry.
Their nuclear deal didn’t make them moderates.
It made them wolves in sheep’s clothing.
Governments around the world worry that confronting
the Islamic republic harms the cause of moderates.
But these so-called moderates within the regime
are still violent Islamic revolutionaries
with an anti-America, anti-West agenda.
You only have to take their own words for
it.
AMY GOODMAN: Secretary of State Pompeo stopped
short of calling for regime change, but members
of the Trump administration, including National
Security Adviser John Bolton and Trump attorney
Rudy Giuliani, have ties to the Mujahedeen-e
Khalq, or MEK, a group of Iranian exiles who
have called for regime change in Iran.
The MEK was once on the State Department’s
list of foreign terrorist organizations, before
reinventing itself as a moderate political
group.
On Sunday, the National Iranian American Council
placed a full-page ad in the Los Angeles Times
with an open letter to Pompeo that criticized
the Trump administration’s ties to MEK,
writing, “Support for violent organizations
such as the Mujahedin-e Khalq (MEK)—which
has used terror to kill Iranians and Americans
alike—by key advisors to and Members of
the Trump administration raises serious concerns
as to whether your administration’s objective
is to support the Iranian people’s struggle
for democracy and independence or to use their
legitimate grievances to destabilize Iran
and turn it into a failed state.”
Well, for more, we go to Washington, D.C.,
where we’re joined by Trita Parsi, founder
and president of the National Iranian American
Council.
His most recent book, Losing an Enemy: Obama,
Iran, and the Triumph of Diplomacy.
His most recent piece for The New York Review
of Books headlined “Why Trump’s Hawks
Back the MEK Terrorist Cult.”
Welcome back to Democracy Now!, Trita.
TRITA PARSI: Thank yo so much for having me.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about the—Rouhani’s
comments, Pompeo’s speech and now, most
recently, President Trump’s threatening
tweet against Iran.
TRITA PARSI: Well, I think Pompeo’s speech
and the effort that he gave to essentially
give the impression that he cares for the
Iranian people was quickly negated by this
rather unprecedented tweet by Donald Trump,
essentially threatening war over Twitter.
And I think it reveals that now, beyond any
doubt, the Trump administration’s policy
is, and, frankly, has always been, escalation
and confrontation.
Whether that confrontation will take place
through a direct military confrontation or
whether it will be the Trump administration
continuing and intensifying their efforts
to destabilize Iran or, as Reuters reported
over the weekend, to foment unrest in Iran
remains to be seen.
But without a doubt, this is not an administration
that is pursuing a policy of actually trying
to find a new way to the negotiating table
or striking a new deal.
Everything they’re doing right now is only
compatible with a policy of confrontation.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn back to Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo speaking Sunday.
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO: Right now,
the United States is undertaking a diplomatic
and financial pressure campaign to cut off
the funds that the regime uses to enrich itself
and support death and destruction.
We have an obligation to put maximum pressure
on the regime’s ability to generate and
move money, and we will do so.
At the center of this campaign is the reimposition
of sanction on Iran’s banking and energy
sectors.
As we’ve explained over the last few weeks,
our focus is to work with countries importing
Iranian crude oil to get imports as close
to zero as possible.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Pompeo.
Trita Parsi?
TRITA PARSI: So, I think you will see there’s
a lot of what he said, when it comes to criticism
of the government in Iran, that a lot of people
would agree with, because, at the end of the
day, this is a government that has been very
repressive politically, it is incompetent
in many areas, and its corruption is only
increasing over time.
But I think there’s a major leap of faith
to believe that all of these problems, and
the frustration that they generate, will cause
people to think that Pompeo, Trump and John
Bolton are the answers to Iran’s problems,
and while they are undermining democracy in
the United States, they would somehow miraculously
be the answer to increased democracy in Iran.
So, I think this is rhetoric that ultimately
is going to fail.
But it is nevertheless indicative of where
this administration wants to go with its Iran
policy.
And I’m very worried that the pattern that
we’ve seen before, which is that when the
United States escalates, the Iranians escalate,
as well—and they have made threats of saying
that if they cannot sell oil and they cannot
ship oil out of the Strait of Hormuz, then
no one can, threatening to close it.
This is going to have a devastating effect
on the global economic markets, but also it
will risk sparking a larger military confrontation,
because if the Iranians do this, in response
to efforts by Trump to reduce their oil sales
to zero, then the U.S. will move in militarily.
So this is a very dangerous moment, with very
unresponsible people here at the helm in Washington.
AMY GOODMAN: So, can you talk about the timing
of all of this?
You knew last week that Pompeo was preparing
to give this address.
And I want to ask you who the Iranian-American
audience was at the Reagan Library, where
he spoke on Sunday.
Rouhani made his comments before Pompeo spoke,
but clearly knowing about this, and then Trump
made his threat late last night.
TRITA PARSI: Yeah, this is an escalation that
has been going on and taking place for some
time.
And I think the timing of it is indicative
of the Trump administration being ready to
take their escalatory and confrontational
policy to the next level.
I frankly believe that they would have liked
to do this much earlier, but earlier on, as
you know, there were members of the Trump
administration that were not in line with
this thinking and who wanted to stay in the
Iran nuclear deal.
So it’s taken them a year and a half before
they can get to this point.
But it seems to me that Trump always wanted
to move in this direction.
When it comes to the audience yesterday—I
spoke to several people in the audience—it’s
a mixture.
There’s a lot of people who want to see
the United States take a much more belligerent
policy.
They’re a very small people—group within
the Iranian-American community.
But they have numbers in Los Angeles, and
many of them were in the audience.
There were people who were there simply out
of curiosity.
They did not believe necessarily that their
presence would be seen as support for what
Pompeo was saying.
But I think it’s also important to note
that, based on several people I spoke to,
as well as footage that came out of there,
the majority of the people in the audience
were not Iranian Americans.
Even though this was presented as an address
to the Iranian-American community, the majority
of the people in the room were actually non-Iranian
Americans.
And, in fact, it goes to a larger point here.
If the Trump administration actually was interested
in a genuine dialogue with the Iranian-American
community, that dialogue should have been
initiated before Trump imposed a Muslim ban.
It should have been initiated before he pulled
out of the nuclear deal.
To come now and say that he wants to have
dialogue and is interested in hearing what
the Iranian-American community has to say
simply doesn’t come across as particularly
genuine, because he’s already made his major
policy moves, and he’s so deep into his
policy, it’s very difficult to see that
any feedback from the Iranian-American community
could influence him to even marginally change
that policy.
AMY GOODMAN: Now, Trita, can you put this
in the context of the Helsinki summit, the
meeting that Trump had with President Putin
of Russia?
We don’t know what they talked about for
two hours.
But what is Russia’s interest here?
TRITA PARSI: So, as you mention, we don’t
know exactly what was being said.
But it is a very important part of this puzzle,
because the Russians, so far—I wouldn’t
say that they’re allies with Iran, but they
have aligned interest in some areas.
They’ve had it, to a certain extent, in
Syria.
And, perhaps most importantly, the Russians
don’t want to see the United States be able
to have more governments in the Middle East
that are aligned with Washington.
So, in that sense, they do appreciate that
Iran is quite opposed to American influence
in the Middle East.
But the Russians have more important interests
at heart, as well, which is particularly breaking
out of their own sanctions that the U.S. have
imposed on them, as well as issues such as
NATO expansion, Ukraine, etc.
So there is a gamble from the Trump administration
side in which, essentially, by offering the
Russians anything they want on Ukraine and
some other issues, that they would get the
Iranians—they’d get the Russians to throw
the Iranians under the bus.
What they may not be as sensitive to is that
if that scenario were to take place, it’s
not so much Russia throwing Iran under the
bus as it is the United States throwing Europe
under the bus.
And this may also explain why Trump has been
so negative in his rhetoric towards the Europeans.
AMY GOODMAN: What he had to say in his very
hostile tweet last night towards Iran sounded
very similar to, oh, just about a year ago,
speaking against North Korea.
There are some who are saying this could mean
he’s preparing to try to make peace with
Iran.
TRITA PARSI: I find that somewhat unlikely,
and I’ll explain why.
Certainly, on the surface, it does look like
that.
And if this is some sort of a bizarre negotiation
strategy, then, at the end of the day, it
is much better if the Trump administration
and the Iranians negotiate than to move down
a path of confrontation.
But I think we have to keep a very important
element in mind.
In Asia, around North Korea, almost all of
America’s allies, and even some of America’s
competitors, wanted to see a diplomatic effort
between the United States and North Korea,
and they desperately wanted to avoid a war
between the two countries, precisely because
such a war would be nuclear.
In the Middle East, you have a very different
scenario.
America’s close allies in the Middle East,
particularly Saudi Arabia, UAE and Israel,
do not favor diplomacy with Iran, have opposed
any dialogue between Tehran and Washington,
and are on record, for the last 10, 15 years,
pushing the United States to go to war with
Iran.
Former Secretary of Defense Bob Gates said
that the Saudis want to fight the Iranians
’til the last American.
So, mindful of this, and mindful of the susceptibility
of the Trump administration to pressure from
these governments, it simply is far less likely
that the endgame that Trump has with this
tweet is to actually drive things towards
the negotiation table.
AMY GOODMAN: And MEK, explain who they are
and whether you think they’re clearly—Pompeo
is threatening regime change here?
And what does that have to do with MEK?
TRITA PARSI: Well, the MEK is a Iranian opposition
group that was founded back in the 1960s.
It was actually the first opposition group
in Iran that started to use violence against
the shah’s regime.
It actually did enjoy a degree of popularity
in Iran in the 1970s.
But they were also using terrorism back then,
primarily assassinating members of the shah’s
government and Americans in Iran.
Later on, they were part of the Iranian revolution
but had a falling-out with Khomeini.
They wanted to execute the American hostages
that eventually were released by the Khomeini
government.
They ended up siding with Saddam Hussein in
the Iraq-Iran War and fought alongside Saddam
against Iran, which caused them to be seen
as traitors in the eyes of most Iranians.
And then they ended up essentially becoming
Saddam Hussein’s private militia, that he
used to do ethnic cleansing against Shiites
in the south and Kurds in the north of Iraq.
They always had a rather well-funded machine
in Washington, lobbying machine.
And even while they were on the terrorist
list, they were the only terrorist group,
that I can imagine, that actually had offices
downtown D.C., despite the fact that they
were on the terrorist list.
They managed to get out of the terrorist list
after a massive lobbying campaign, that arguably
was illegal, in 2012.
And they have, essentially, zero support in
Iran right now.
And that raises the question: Why have members
of the Trump administration been so cozy with
them?
Are they not aware of the fact that this is
a group that really has zero chance of taking
over Iran?
I think they actually do know these things.
But there is something the MEK offers that
no other opposition group offers.
These members of the MEK, several thousand
fighters that they have, are trained in both
regular warfare as well as in guerrilla warfare.
They have massive experience in terrorism,
in assassinations, in sabotage—things that
are not particularly helpful if your aim is
to bring about democratic change in Iran,
but actually could be very helpful if your
aim is to engage in some form of a military
confrontation with Iran or some form of effort
to destabilize the country by starting a civil
war.
For those purposes, the MEK is the only Iranian
opposition group that actually can provide
the type of qualities that are needed for
this thing.
And I suspect that that is part of the reason
why they are being so cozy with the Trump
administration right now, precisely for these
purposes.
AMY GOODMAN: Trita Parsi, we want to thank
you for being with us, founder and president
of the National Iranian American Council.
We’ll link to your pieces.
Your latest book, Losing an Enemy: Obama,
Iran, and the Triumph of Diplomacy.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, the direct action against
nuclear weapons in the United States.
We’ll talk about the Plowshares movement.
Stay with us.
