AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, this week, commemorations
are being held to mark the 50th anniversary
of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr.
The civil rights leader and peace activist
was gunned down on April 4th, 1968, at the
balcony of his hotel room at the Lorraine
Motel in Memphis, Tennessee.
He was just 39 years old.
King was in Memphis to support striking sanitation
workers, who he saw as being on the front
lines of fighting poverty and integral to
his new initiative, the Poor People’s Campaign.
In the late 1960s, King recognized that the
next phase in the quest for civil rights and
equality would focus on the economic divide.
REV.
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.: You are demanding
that this city will respect the dignity of
labor.
So often we overlook the work and the significance
of those who are not in professional jobs,
of those who are not in the so-called big
jobs.
But let me say to you tonight that whenever
you are engaged in work that serves humanity
and is for the building of humanity, it has
dignity, and it has worth.
You are reminding not only Memphis, but you
are reminding the nation, that it is a crime
for people to live in this rich nation and
receive starvation wages.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: The Memphis sanitation workers’
strike was sparked by the deaths of two workers,
Echol Cole and Robert Walker, who were crushed
to death in the back of a faulty garbage truck
as they sought shelter from the rain.
African-American sanitation workers in Memphis
were instructed to take shelter from the rain
in the cavity of their trucks along with the
trash they collected.
Two weeks later, the workers began a wildcat
strike, carrying signs that read “I Am a
Man.”
Martin Luther King joined the striking workers
in Memphis to support them in March of 1968.
After a march erupted in violence, King returned
to Memphis a few weeks later, determined to
conduct a peaceful rally.
The event was scheduled for April 5th.
King was gunned down on the 4th.
The strike ended on April 16th with a settlement
that included union recognition and wage increases.
AMY GOODMAN: For more, we go to Memphis, where
we’re joined by two guests.
Bill Lucy is former secretary-treasurer with
AFSCME and played a key role in the 1968 Memphis
sanitation workers’ strike.
AFSCME, the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, the organizers
of the strike.
He also is president emeritus of the Coalition
of Black Trade Unionists.
And H.B.
Crockett is with us, one of the striking garbage
workers in 1968.
He worked for the Memphis Sanitation Department
for 53 years before retiring.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Bill Lucy, let’s begin with you: Why you
went down to Memphis, what Dr. King’s visit
to Memphis, not once, but twice, meant, and
what was happening at the time?
WILLIAM LUCY: Well, first of all, Amy, thanks
for having us on.
Dr. King was in the process of organizing
the Poor People’s Campaign, really to put
a face on poverty across the nation.
The sanitation workers were already in the
process of their struggle, when the struggle
came to the attention of Dr. King.
And he clearly understood the struggle, identified
with it and gave of his time, energy and effort
to give assistance to the men in their struggle
for respect and dignity.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, H.B.
Crockett, could you talk about the conditions
that you were facing back then and the importance
of the slogan that you chose to symbolize
the crux of the strike, the “I Am a man”
slogan?
H.B.
CROCKETT: Yeah, it was really rough back there
then.
We had to tow that stuff on our head, then
go in the backyard and get it.
Then we had to drag the brush out of the backyard,
too.
And then the supervisor’s on top of you
at all time, looking over the fence, watching
to see what you’re doing.
And that really was a terrible time.
It finally got a little better, after Dr.
King.
I mean, got messed up, and it got a little
bit better, not that much.
But soon, we got a little raise.
Wasn’t getting no money hardly, either.
I think my check went—in three weeks, was
$73, or $73, I believe it was—not 73, but
$73, every three weeks.
There were no money.
My rent was $35 a month.
AMY GOODMAN: Is it true they said to you,
H.B.
Crockett—is it true they said, if it’s
raining, you should just crawl into the cavity
of the garbage truck and take refuge there?
H.B.
CROCKETT: Yeah, it’s true.
You had to get—well, they didn’t allow
you to get out the rain.
I’m going to tell you that right now.
They didn’t allow you to get out the rain.
We were on a shed one morning, or one evening,
or something, and the man—the supervisor
comes over there and says, “What you all
doing up on this shed?
You all can’t sit up on this shed in the
rain.
You all got to go to work.”
So we had come up out of the shed and work
in the rain.
That’s for ’til they got this thing settled.
Then we got it settled, stopped working in
the rain then a little bit.
Not much, but stopped a little.
They still got on you about that working,
working: “Work this, and work that.
Work there.”
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Bill—
WILLIAM LUCY: Amy, this—I mean, this situation
reflected the ultimate contradiction in the
respect that the law provided for workers
in this kind of work as opposed to workers
in the private sector, who had the right to
bargain collectively and participate in decisions
that affected their work life, to not be able
to get out of foul weather.
And even in this department, you had a situation
where some workers would be sent home when
it rained.
Others would remain at work.
Those who stayed got a full day’s pay.
Those who went home got no pay.
So, for a low-wage worker, a loss of a day’s
pay was a significant event.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Bill Lucy, the importance
of being able to organize the union there
in Memphis, what kind of support that gave
to the workers in their conditions?
I’m wondering if you could also talk about
the two protests.
There had been one earlier that had erupted
into some kind of violence, and Martin Luther
King had received some criticism as a result,
so when he came back the second time—the
importance of his coming back, if you to talk
about those two things?
WILLIAM LUCY: Well, in the march that Dr.
King had called for—the date escapes me,
I believe the 18th of March or something like
that—clearly was, the provocateurs caused
the level of violence that occurred on that
day.
Dr. King clearly would not participate in
any violent march.
So he felt obligated to come back and support
the men again with a march that was nonviolent.
There’s all kinds of stories as to what
caused the violence.
I think I would suggest that some folks read
the 1969 Senator Frank Church subcommittee
reports to get a sense of what was taking
place from the opposition side.
These men were simply men who wanted a process
by which they could solve their day-to-day
problems in the workplace and have someone
who can make decisions that would affect their
work life.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn back to Dr. King
speaking in 1968 in support of the striking
sanitation workers in Memphis.
REV.
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.: And I feel that we
can still have a nonviolent demonstration,
and that we will have a nonviolent demonstration
here in Memphis.
The important thing is that we are not going
to be stopped by mace or by injunctions or
any other methods that the city plans to use.
And I think they’re making a grave mistake,
because I think this will bring much more
support, nationally and otherwise, to the
movement.
AMY GOODMAN: So that was Dr. King.
He comes back for the second march.
He gives that famous speech on the night of
April 3rd in the rain.
Hundreds of people, many sanitation workers,
their families, crowded into the church to
hear Dr. King speak.
He wasn’t even feeling well that night.
H.B.
Crockett, were you there?
H.B.
CROCKETT: I was there, ’til “the Lord”
with.
Came home.
I was there ’til “the Lord” into his
speech.
He gave a great speech.
See, I was there to the end.
I got home, I heard the news.
That really got me that time, when I got home
and heard the news.
AMY GOODMAN: So, it was the next day, on April
4th, in the afternoon, in the late afternoon,
that Dr. King was gunned down on the balcony
of the Lorraine Motel.
What was—
H.B.
CROCKETT: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: Where were you when you heard
that news?
And what was your response, both that he had
come to be with you and that he had been assassinated
there?
H.B.
CROCKETT: I believe I was at home when I heard
it on the news.
[inaudible] cut our phones, lights and everything
that night.
And we couldn’t call out, couldn’t do
nothing.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Bill Lucy, your response,
where you were when you heard the news, and
the response of you and your union after Martin
Luther King was killed?
WILLIAM LUCY: Well, my fellow staffers, Jesse
Epps, Joe Paisley, we were at the Minimum
Salary Building of the AME Church, located
right next to Clayborn Temple, which essentially
was our mobilization office.
We heard the news.
We were maybe less than 10 minutes away from
the Lorraine Motel.
We immediately headed for the Lorraine Motel,
and we were stopped just short of that, when
we heard the news.
I mean, clearly, the assassination had an
incredible impact, not just across the city
of Memphis, but across the nation as a whole.
AMY GOODMAN: And, H.B.
Crockett, what it meant to you that Dr. King
came to Memphis and to support your “I Am
a Man” strike, and the significance of those
words, “I Am a Man,” that you carried
on the picket signs?
H.B.
CROCKETT: Yeah, we carried the sign.
I got one in my yard now, saying “I Am a
Man,” still in there now, from the other
night.
We went to the meeting.
I got one then.
It’s still in my yard.
It was a great thing when he came home—when
he came here to Memphis.
I thought there might be a big change, and
there were some changes.
Wasn’t no really big change, but it was
some change in the work position.
WILLIAM LUCY: Amy, could I make a point?
So many supporters of the strikers really
reflected on the fact that there’s really
a history in the African-American community
about workers, and particularly workers of
this type.
James Lawson, P.L.
Rowe and other ministers who had supported
the strike had often used the phrase to describe
the treatment of the men.
And I think men all of a sudden realized that
they were entitled to respect and dignity,
irrespective of the kind of work that they
did.
So the slogan came out of the recognition
that they simply wanted to be treated as men,
not as children.
They didn’t want to go from boy to uncle
to grandpa without ever passing the position
of being a man.
And when the sign came out, it really hit
like a bolt of lightning, because it not only
gave the city sanitation workers recognition,
but also across the city there were other
African-American men who had suffered the
same kinds of indignities, and that slogan
reflected their commitment to being treated
as men also.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And in that vein, you went
on to become, obviously, one of the most prominent
African-American labor leaders in the country,
the president emeritus of the Coalition of
Black Trade Unionists.
The impact of this African-American struggle
for dignity and human rights on the overall
labor movement, if you could—I’m wondering
if you could talk about that, as well?
WILLIAM LUCY: Well, let me just say something
one moment.
Dr. King, along with being one of the leading
civil rights leaders, was also an incredibly
strong advocate for workers’ rights.
So, Dr. King was not doing something new and
out of character for him.
He was simply saying what he had believed
fundamentally all along, that workers were
entitled to the right to organize for themselves
and have an advocate that spoke to their needs.
And his identification with the strike was
consistent with his beliefs.
Myself and others who brought whatever assistance
we could to this thing were doing what we
believed also, and that is that workers have
a right to have a voice in the decisions that
affect their work life, which in turn affects
their social condition.
And here in Memphis, then as well as now,
there’s a real need for folks to recognize
their right to be a part of the decision-making
process.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And as you see all these reports
now of strikes statewide in West Virginia
and Oklahoma, and now a sick-in by workers—or
sick-out by workers in Kentucky, your thoughts
about the state of the labor movement right
now?
AMY GOODMAN: Ten seconds.
WILLIAM LUCY: Well, the labor movement is
obviously under assault in every respect.
But what is really unique and unusual now,
that people are beginning to recognize that
they are entitled to live with some degree
of dignity and respect.
We have teachers in West Virginia and across
the country.
You have—
AMY GOODMAN: Bill Lucy, we’re going to have
to leave it there, but we’ll do Part 2 of
our discussion and post it online at democracynow.org.
Bill Lucy and H.B.
Crockett.
