AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
We turn to President Trump’s efforts to
dramatically rewrite the U.S. tax code, critics
slamming the plan, saying it would massively
redistribute wealth to the richest 1 percent
of Americans—including President Trump and
members of his administration.
An analysis by the Center for American Progress
Action Fund shows President Trump’s family
and Trump’s Cabinet members would, combined,
reap a $3.5 billion windfall from the proposed
repeal of the estate tax alone.
The plan also calls for slashing the corporate
tax rate from 35 percent down to 20 percent.
Earlier this year, Trump proposed cutting
the corporate tax rate to as low as 15 percent.
The plan also proposes lowering the tax rate
on so-called pass-through income, in which
the profits of a business are transferred
directly to the business owners.
Under the current code, the tax rate on pass-through
income varies based on the owner’s income,
ranging from as low as 10 percent to as high
as 39 percent.
Trump’s plan proposes capping the tax rate
on pass-through income at 25 percent, a move
that would also shower millions in savings
upon millionaires and billionaires, including
Trump and his family.
According to the Center for American Progress
Action Fund, capping this tax rate would give
Trump’s son-in-law, his senior adviser,
Jared Kushner, an annual tax cut of up to
$17 million.
Based on President Trump’s 2016 financial
disclosures, the Center for American Progress
estimates Trump himself would receive a $23
million tax cut.
On Thursday, the Senate passed a budget blueprint
that would protect a $1.5 trillion tax cut
from a Democratic filibuster, clearing the
way for Congress to take up Trump’s proposed
tax overhaul.
The measure passed 51 to 49.
Republican Senator Rand Paul was the only
Republican to vote against the budget plan,
but on Friday he said he was all in for Trump’s
proposed tax cuts.
All Democrats voted against the budget plan.
This is Vermont independent Senator Bernie
Sanders.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Mr. President, this is not
a bad budget bill.
It is an horrific budget bill, an extremely
cruel bill and the most unfair budget ever
presented in the modern history of our country.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality,
this budget provides $1.9 trillion in tax
breaks for the top 1 percent.
At a time when millions of working families
are struggling to keep their heads above water,
this budget cuts Medicaid by a trillion dollars.
Fifteen million Americans could lose their
health insurance.
AMY GOODMAN: President Trump is demanding
Congress pass the tax overhaul by the end
of the year.
For more, we’re joined by two guests.
Democracy Now!
video stream brings us, from Sag Harbor, New
York, James Henry, economist, lawyer, senior
adviser with the Tax Justice Network, Global
Justice fellow at Yale University, former
chief economist at McKinsey & Company.
And joining us in Rochester, New York, is
David Cay Johnston, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
investigative reporter, previously with The
New York Times, now founder and editor of
DCReport.org.
Johnston’s biography of Donald Trump is
titled The Making of Donald Trump.
His forthcoming book on Trump is titled It’s
Worse Than You Think.
So, let’s start with David Cay Johnson.
Your latest piece is headlined “Nine Reasons
Trump’s Tax Plan Will Hurt You.”
What are they?
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON: Well, essentially, what
the Trump tax plan, to the extent that we
know what it is, Amy, is a plan to give tiny
little tax cuts to most Americans, raise taxes
on perhaps one in five families and shower
benefits on people who earn millions of dollars
a year.
If you make $40,000 to $50,000, the Institute
on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates
you’ll get a tax savings of about $8 a week.
If you make an income of $10 million, you’re
going to save about a million-and-a-half dollars
a year.
As much as two-thirds of the tax cuts will
go to the 1 percent.
And this fits with a fundamental principle
the Republicans have been pursuing for a long
time.
They don’t use these words, but it boils
down to: The rich aren’t investing and creating
jobs, because they don’t have nearly enough
money, and so we need to get them money.
And the way the Republicans want to get it
to them is tax cuts first, and then, when
there’s no money because of the tax cuts,
to take away help for children, the disabled,
the elderly and the poor.
AMY GOODMAN: So, explain how President Trump,
his family and his Cabinet will profit from
what you understand they’re putting forward
so far.
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON: Right.
Well, in the estate tax area, if Donald Trump
had $10 billion—and he doesn’t.
His signed-under-oath financial statement
indicates his wealth is less than $2 billion,
and that’s probably inflated.
But at $2 billion, his family would save,
when he runs out of time, $800 million.
And yet Trump says, “I won’t benefit from
this tax plan.
This is a middle-class plan.
I don’t benefit from it.”
In his businesses, he has more than 500 pass-through
businesses alone, and his tax rate on those
would fall from roughly 40 percent to 25 percent.
Well, that’s a million-and-a-half-dollar
savings on every $10 million of income.
This is clearly and unquestionably a plan
designed for people at the top.
And by the way, if you’re a small business
owner who makes a very modest profit, Trump
would raise your tax rate 50 percent, from
10 to 15 percent.
If you’re a working individual, your first
tax dollar—first dollar subject to tax would
be taxed not at 10, as it is now, but at 12
percent.
And if you have more than two children, you
will lose the ability to deduct them, and
it won’t be offset by the changes they’re
proposing.
So this is also an anti-large family plan,
raising the question of whether the Republicans
really want to emulate China’s one-child
policy.
AMY GOODMAN: James Henry, you’re an economist
and a lawyer with the Tax Justice Network.
Can you talk about how—talk about the Republicans
who are opposed to Trump’s plan.
JAMES HENRY: Well, we haven’t heard much
from them.
Ostensibly, they’re opposed to the deficits
this is going to create, something like $1.5
[trillion] to $2.6 trillion of additional
deficit.
So, you know, traditionally, the deficit hawks,
some of whom are like Senator Corker, Rand
Paul, have been concerned about that.
But that appears to be going away.
And the reason is that this is a huge payday
for their donor class.
I would say that the most important impact
of this, that we haven’t really discussed,
is the $2.6 trillion offshore that belongs
to companies like Apple and Google and Microsoft,
you know, very large U.S. companies, going
to be able to repatriate all that and pay
only a 5 to 10 percent tax on it, you know,
which is going to save them about $800 billion.
AMY GOODMAN: Wait, explain exactly how that
works.
You have written a lot about this.
JAMES HENRY: Well, this is basically a one-time
repatriation, like Bush tried in 2004 when
he did the same thing, gave major companies
that had parked money offshore a 5 percent
tax rate.
When they brought it back, they usually—they
used it not to create jobs, but to do shareholder
buybacks.
So it had no beneficial impacts at all.
This blows that up, because now the stash
offshore, under U.S. corporate tax law, if
you put money offshore, you can keep it there.
You can even borrow against it and not pay
tax until you bring it back.
So there’s $2.6 trillion offshore now.
Effectively, if they brought it back at the
35 percent rate, as opposed to the 5 percent
rate, they would pay an extra $800 billion.
The second thing that’s critical about this
is that, you know, none of these major companies
pay anything like 35 percent.
They’re down in the 5 percent range, companies
like GE and Apple, because of all this offshore
loot, much of which is illicit.
I mean, the European Union has determined
that Apple and Google were running around
Europe cutting special deals and parking their
patents and software offshore, then paying
themselves royalties tax-free.
So this corporate tax reform, for them, amounts
to a kind of repeal of the corporate tax,
because it’s a territorial tax.
U.S. companies will no longer be taxed on
their offshore earnings at all.
So this will just encourage exactly the kind
of behavior that the EU and the OECD and the
G20 have been going after.
This is a tax haven relief act.
Effectively, they will be able to get negative
taxes, because of all—all this offshore
income will be tax-free.
And this is going to be an absolute disaster
for the rest of the world, especially developing
countries, because right now U.S. companies
can get tax credits against their income in,
say, South Africa.
After this tax bill is passed, with no hearings
and no debate, by the way, you know, they
will find themselves under extreme pressure
to cut their own tax rates.
So this amounts to a unilateral declaration
of a tax war, tax competition, as they like
to style it.
But basically, as the Australian finance minister
said recently, you know, “They’re going
to cut their taxes.
We’re going to cut our tax rates.
This is going to be a race to the bottom.”
And so, effectively, this is not only the
amnesty on the $2.6 trillion one-time payoff,
but, going forward, it’s an effective repeal
of taxation on multinationals.
U.S. businesses, small business, can’t take
advantage of these offshore games, but the
giant companies really can.
And by the way, they’re at all-time record
levels in terms of profits.
They don’t need these kinds of tax benefits
to compete.
AMY GOODMAN: James Henry, you’ve said that
Trump’s plan for corporate tax reform should
be called “the Goldman plan.”
Why?
JAMES HENRY: Well, it’s written by the former—Gary
Cohn, who is a former—
AMY GOODMAN: Gary Cohn.
JAMES HENRY: Cohn, who is the former president
of Goldman Sachs.
And he has 13 other members of—former directors
of Goldman Sachs in his administration.
This is going to be a major benefit—
AMY GOODMAN: Of course, Treasury Secretary
Mnuchin.
JAMES HENRY: Of course.
And it’s going to be a major benefit not
only personally to these people, because of
their estate planning and the way they’re
taxed personally, but also Goldman is going
to benefit directly, because Goldman and other
firms have major stakes in many of these companies
that are going to get this huge payday.
So this is going to be financed by a deficit.
It’s a transfer of wealth to the top, I
would say, 0.1 percent of the population,
not just the 1 percent.
These are the folks—you know, private equity
firms now own a majority of shares in the
U.S. stock market.
So, you know, this is, I think, one of the
most reactionary, if not the most reactionary,
wealth transfers in U.S. history.
AMY GOODMAN: So, David Cay Johnston, talk
about how Trump is framing this, repeatedly
saying this is about helping the middle class.
Now, you have covered him for decades.
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON: Well, Donald is a master
salesman.
And he creates his own reality.
So if he tells you, “This is a middle-class
tax cut, and I, Donald Trump, won’t benefit,”
he expects you to believe that.
It doesn’t matter that it’s not true.
It’s he said it, you’re supposed to believe
it.
And that’s how he’s run his entire administration.
If he says it, that makes it true.
Donald is not unique about this.
I’ve covered other people in public life
who create their own reality in this way.
But ordinary Americans should be rising up
and saying, “Wait a minute.
We went down this path in 2001.”
And what happened when we had a similar plan—and
not, by the way, as heavily rigged to the
top as this plan is?
Well, job growth basically stopped.
For eight years, the population of the United
States grew five times faster than the number
of jobs grew.
We saw wages slide.
Incomes fell for everybody, including the
super rich, the top 10th of 1 percent that
Jim just talked about.
Their incomes fell, as well.
And we ran up these huge deficits.
And Donald Trump ran for office complaining
that at $19 trillion, the U.S. debt was completely
out of control, and yet what he’s planning
to do is throw trillions of dollars more onto
that debt.
If this plan is enacted, 10 years from now
America’s debt will be over $30 trillion.
And so, he’s contradicting, Amy, his own
stated positions.
And that’s because, to Donald, none of this
is about policy.
It’s not about sound economics.
It’s about greed and the glorification of
the great leader.
AMY GOODMAN: So, what would a progressive
tax plan look like?
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON: Well, the most important
element of a progressive tax plan would be
to have top rates that don’t start at $400,000
a year.
People who make $400,000 a day—i.e.
Donald Trump—should pay a much higher rate
than a couple who both work all year and make
$400,000.
They make a lot of money, but people who make
that much per day pay the same or lower tax
rates.
So we need to recognize we need to have a
tax schedule that goes up at a million dollars,
two-and-a-half million, $5 million, $10 million,
$100 million.
And remember, we have people in America now
who have reported billion-dollar and multibillion-dollar
annual incomes—not wealth, incomes.
And those people would get incredible tax
cuts under this.
Secondly, these accounting rules that allow
companies to earn profits in the United States,
send the money offshore, effectively taking
money out of their right pocket and putting
it into their left, and getting a tax deduction
and then keeping the money offshore and obtaining,
in that fashion, a zero-interest loan from
the federal government for the amount of taxes
that they owe—every dollar of tax they don’t
pay because they put the money offshore amounts
to the government loaning money to these companies
at zero interest.
That needs to be stopped.
There is nothing in this plan that suggests
that they intend to reform the tax system.
This is simply the oligarchs of America reaching
into the pockets of the middle class, and
especially the upper middle class and the
moderately prosperous, the people in America
who make $100,000 a year up to about a million
dollars a year, and taking money out of their
pockets.
People who make $100,000 to $250,000 a year
would actually see their taxes rise under
this plan, based on what we know so far.
This is simply a huge redistribution scheme
by the rich, for the rich and paid for by
everybody who is not already rich.
AMY GOODMAN: David Cay Johnston, I wanted
to ask you about this latest news and whether
you think it matters, that President Trump,
according to the annual Forbes magazine rankings,
had dropped from—lost $600 million, dropping
him to $3.1 billion, dropping him from 156th
richest American to 248th in their 400 ranking?
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON: Right.
Well, first of all, let me point out, the
Forbes list is deeply, deeply flawed.
I know people who are billionaires who are
not on that list because it’s privately
held wealth.
It is a measure of liquid wealth.
And Donald Trump’s wealth is privately held.
He doesn’t own any significant stocks or
bonds.
But I think the most important element is
this.
When Donald Trump announced in 2015 that he
was running, he said he was worth $8.7 billion,
and then he said 10, more than 10, once he
said 11.
The statement he filed in May, in which he
asked if he could file without signing it,
and was told, “No, you’ve got to sign
it, under penalty of perjury,” he listed
his wealth as $1.4 billion, with the possibility
it’s somewhat higher because of the way
the form is done.
So I’ve redone the form, and it comes out
to less than $2 billion.
Not only is that below what Forbes said, but
it’s nowhere near what ran for office claiming.
And this goes to the fact that Donald Trump
is a con artist.
He just tells you what he thinks you want
to hear.
And I’m shocked that none of the American
newspapers and networks ran stories saying,
“President Trump didn’t have $10 billion
like he claimed.
He’s got less than $2 billion.”
But I’m not surprised if his wealth fell
during this period of time, because he put
a lot of money into the campaign, number one.
What we should see happen is his income rising.
He doubled the price to join Mar-a-Lago between
Election Day and the day he took office, from
$100,000 to $200,000.
His Washington hotel, the Old Post Office,
is the highest-priced hotel in Washington,
even though there’s nothing to distinguish
it except the name of the owner on the door.
Steaks at that place start at $60.
Drinks start at $24.
They’re taking in $68,000 a day just in
food and beverage, which is an extraordinary
amount for a hotel.
And they’re charging rates that are three
times the average in the District of Columbia
and higher than any other luxury hotel, even
though nothing distinguishes them.
This is a kleptocracy in the making.
And the deals with China, where Trump used
to be very critical of China, now he and his
family have well more than a hundred trademarks
in China, and suddenly they’re not so critical
of the Chinese anymore.
This is a presidency for profit.
AMY GOODMAN: James Henry, we have 10 seconds.
Your prediction about how this plan will go
in Congress?
JAMES HENRY: I think they’re going to race
it through the Congress without any debate,
no hearings.
And we’re going to have a gigantic tax war,
where what we really should be doing is working
with our allies and countries around the world
to establish a fair taxation.
This upsets 10 years of progress with the
OECD and the G20.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to have to leave
it there.
I want to thank James Henry, economist with
the Tax Justice Network, and David Cay Johnston.
I’m Amy Goodman.
Thanks for joining us.
