AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
Our guests are Naomi Klein, senior correspondent
for The Intercept, her new piece for The Intercept,
“The Battle for Paradise: Puerto Ricans
and Ultrarich 'Puertopians' Are Locked in
a Pitched Struggle over How to Remake the
Island”; we are also joined by Yarimar Bonilla,
associate professor of anthropology and Caribbean
studies at Rutgers University, a visiting
scholar at Russell Sage Foundation, author
of Non-Sovereign Futures: French Caribbean
Politics in the Wake of Disenchantment and
a founder of the Puerto Rico Syllabus, on
this week, the six-month anniversary of Hurricane
Maria.
Juan?
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Yarimar, Naomi was talking
about this conference of—as more and more
Bitcoin people are trying to relocate to Puerto
Rico.
Just yesterday, John Paulson, the hedge fund
guy she talked about, whose hotel hosted that
conference, opened a new hotel.
And Governor Rosselló was there.
It’s called the Serafina hotel, another
luxury hotel, I guess, to lure more rich Americans
to relocate to Puerto Rico.
You have been covering this whole development
of these vulture capitalists now that are
personally descending on Puerto Rico to try
to see what they can pick out in terms of
their future winnings or profits.
Could you talk about it?
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yeah.
Well, part of what is most troubling is that
these folks clearly have the ear of the governor.
And so, as Naomi was talking about, the people
at Casa Pueblo, who are doing all this innovation
around solar power, and all the different
community groups in Puerto Rico that have
taken on the recovery directly, those folks
are not—are not being turned to by the governor
to think about what Puerto Rico needs right
now.
Instead, it is these blockchain communities
and cryptocurrency communities and ex-pats,
if you will, that are really, you know, having
a say in what’s going to happen in Puerto
Rico.
And Governor Roselló has said that blockchain
technology is going to be central to the recovery.
And at the conference, he announced the creation
of an advisory board.
And so, part of what excites this technology
community is that relationship to the government,
where the government has said, “We’re
going to listen to you.
We’re going to let you set the terms, not
just of how we’re going to rebuild, but
also the legislative framework that’s going
to be put into place for dealing with these
technologies.”
And so, at a different conference that occurred
right here in New York City, I was there,
and I was able to witness that kind of recruitment
and the way in which the blockchain leaders
were saying, “This is where we need to be,
because we can operate within an ambiguous
framework.
Given Puerto Rico’s colonial relationship
to the U.S., not all federal legislation applies.
And not only that, but we can actually set
the terms and create precedents, legislative
precedents, of how blockchain and Bitcoin
and all these kinds of new technologies are
going to be applied.”
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: I wanted to ask you, in terms
of that—one of the things that people don’t
understand is the original tax exemptions
that were granted back in the '50s, ’60s
and ’70s to corporations, exemptions from—that
was federal tax as well as Puerto Rico tax.
At least they provided jobs, supposedly, for
Puerto Ricans.
Now you're getting the recruitment of individual
rich people, who maybe may have a few office
personnel, but aren’t really producing anything
other than financial management systems.
And so they’re not really producing jobs,
but now they’re exempt not only from federal
taxes, which all Puerto Ricans are, but also
from local taxes, as well.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yeah.
So, when Act 20-22 was originally passed by
the previous administration, it did carry
some requirements for job creation.
But the current administration has lifted
those.
And so, at the conference in New York, they
told folks, “Come.
You are a firm.
Just one individual can be a firm.”
And there are now no employment requirements.
So, a lot of folks who, like Naomi said, can,
you know, work anywhere—all they need is
their data, their laptop, some wireless, although
they are concerned about the wireless technology
in Puerto Rico—well, they can just relocate
half the year and have huge tax breaks, not
just at the federal level, like you said,
but also at the local level.
So, they’re not really inputting anything
into the economy.
And—
AMY GOODMAN: They have to live there 183 days
a year?
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yes, just—
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, half a year plus one
day.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Just half a year plus one
day.
And some folks have said, “Oh, but this
is also going to help bring back the diaspora.”
But that’s patently false, because I spend
a lot of time in Puerto Rico, I looked into
this, and you can’t qualify for it unless
you’re a new resident.
So, all the Puerto Ricans who have left and
who might want to return and be part of the
recovery, there is no incentives for those
folks to come back.
AMY GOODMAN: And, I mean, the diaspora, the
growth of this diaspora—200,000 Puerto Ricans
have left.
But I wanted to go to the American hedge fund
billionaire Juan was just referring to, John
Paulson, talking about Puerto Rico in 2016,
two years before the storm.
JOHN PAULSON: I am optimistic about the long-term
growth prospects for Puerto Rico.
Has a perfect climate.
It’s a very, very beautiful island.
… You can essentially minimize your taxes
in a way that you can’t do anywhere else
in the world.
AMY GOODMAN: And this is Bitcoin Foundation
chairman Brock Pierce talking about Puerto
Rico last month.
BROCK PIERCE: I think that Puerto Rico is
that perfect situation where amazing things
can happen.
It’s in these moments of where we experience
our greatest loss that we have our biggest
opportunity to sort of restart and upgrade.
And so, it’s in these moments that we can
experience those huge sort of changes that
wouldn’t be possible otherwise.
And so, Puerto Rico can become anything it
wants.
… We’re here to help Puerto Rico, the
people and the place, be as—you know, restart
as well as it can.
And Puerto Rico will decide what it wants
to will itself to be.
AMY GOODMAN: So that’s Bitcoin Foundation
chair Brock Pierce, the child star who grew
up and now lives in Puerto Rico, and, before
that, John Paulson.
Yarimar Bonilla, their significance, what
they’re saying?
YARIMAR BONILLA: Well, part of what is striking
to me about these folks is how they will come
from the outside and say, “Puerto Rico can
will itself to be anything it wants.”
But they’re not Puerto Rican, right?
And so—but the recruitment of these folks,
the government represents it as the arrival
of new “stakeholders.”
And so, now you don’t have to be Puerto
Rican to be a stakeholder, to have a say in
the future.
And Naomi points to this battle in her piece,
when she talks about: Who gets to decide what
will be the future of Puerto Rico?
These new arrivals, that are here to benefit
and profit from the recovery?
Or the folks who have been working in their
communities trying to envision alternatives
for the future?
And the other piece in this puzzle is that
while these new recruits are being welcomed
and sought after and given a lead role in
the recovery, thousands of Puerto Ricans are
being encouraged to leave, because the delays
in FEMA and the kind of programs that they’ve
put into place are not helping Puerto Ricans
rebuild.
Six months after Maria, there are many folks
who still are waiting for tarps.
For tarps, you know?
And so—and not to mention the problems of
recovery.
And then, a scandal that is still to come
and just starting to explode is this new program,
Tu Hogar Renace, Your Home Reflourishes or
something, where the Department of Housing
has given these extremely lucrative contracts
to contractors to do temporary repairs on
homes.
And so, this is going to be like the FEMA
trailers, where people lived in these trailers,
that were not fully habitable, much longer
than they were meant to.
So I think a lot of folks in Puerto Rico,
who are not getting sufficient funds from
FEMA to fully rebuild, they’re going to
have these temporary fixes, where they give
them like little hotel-size refrigerators
and like a, you know, two-burner stove.
And it’s something meant to just be temporary,
until they can fully rebuild their homes,
but these are folks that don’t have the
funds to fully rebuild their homes.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Yarimar, you were mentioning
this whole question of folks coming from the
outside to determine the future.
This has been happening now for some time,
especially with his administration.
You have the executive director of the control
board, Natalie Jaresko, getting paid $635,000
a year.
She’s a Ukrainian American who was brought
in to run, actually, the finances of Puerto
Rico.
There’s an American running the school system.
And you’re mentioning now also—
AMY GOODMAN: Non-Puerto Rican.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Non-Puerto Rican, right.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Right, yeah, a non-Puerto
Rican American running the school system,
from—I think she’s from Chicago.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Philadelphia.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Oh, Philadelphia.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yeah.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And now there’s talk of
a new PREPA.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yes, yeah.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Could you talk about the new
PREPA nominees?
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yes.
Yeah, so, there was Julia Keleher from Philadelphia
and now Walter [Higgins].
I don’t know what state he’s from originally,
but he’s a retired Navy captain, who is
going to command a salary of $450,000 to run
the electricity company.
And with these nominees, people always say,
“Oh, but that’s the salary that we have
to give someone with those kinds of credentials.”
But that argument is never made for Puerto
Ricans who are—experience cuts and who have
to, you know, have their pensions reduced,
etc.
And there was another nominee that went kind
of under the radar, Brad Dean, who was appointed
the head of this newly created public—no,
private, nonprofit agency, funded by the government—if
you can figure that out—created through
special legislation that transferred responsibilities
and resources from the government tourism
industry to a private entity.
So, that’s going to be in charge of marketing
Puerto Rico.
And it’s interesting that these are very
central and important agencies—I mean, education—for
the Education Department to not be in the
hands of a local Puerto Rican, and for even
the marketing and the definition of self that
is involved in the tourism campaign, for that
to not be in the hands of Puerto Ricans.
And now a critical aspect such as electricity,
right?
So, we’re seeing almost a kind of return
to colonial rule, where you had, you know,
foreign appointees sent to Puerto Rico.
This is what Puerto Rico looked like, you
know, when it was still under military rule,
basically.
So it’s really troubling to see how the
current administration is recruiting non-Puerto
Ricans to lead the recovery through all aspects.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Naomi, I wanted to ask you
also, in terms of some of these cuts—I downloaded
the most recent communication from the financial
control board to the government of Puerto
Rico.
This was to the heads of the University of
Puerto Rico about what it’s demanding in
terms of cuts.
They sent this letter last week.
And they’re saying that, basically, that
there have to be major tuition increases at
the university, consolidation of campuses,
closing of campuses, if necessary, reductions—a
system of attrition imposed on any staff at
the university, pension reductions at the
university.
Basically, it’s a complete—not dismantling,
but certainly a huge austerity program for
the crown jewel of the education system of
Puerto Rico, which is the University of Puerto
Rico.
NAOMI KLEIN: Right.
And this was going on, once again, before
Maria, but it was running into a huge amount
of resistance.
And this is, I think, the significance of
the strategy that we’re seeing now, is you
have all of these—all of these plans that
they were trying to push through, including
cutting the budget of the University of Puerto
Rico in half, while, as you say, increasing
tuition—so, people getting radically less
but having to pay more—for the most significant
educational institution in Puerto Rico, in
which there’s a lawsuit going on right now
where faculty members are making the argument
that the University of Puerto Rico represents
an essential service and that it is against
the mandate of PROMESA to cut essential services
in a way that essentially dismantles them.
So, that’s going on, and that challenge
is going on in court.
But the significance is that a few months
before Maria hit, there was this historic
strike, a student-led strike, at the University
of Puerto Rico, that lasted for two-and-a-half
months, that was—that really sparked this
wave of anti-austerity resistance, that culminated
in mass demonstrations on May 1st, 2017.
Just a few months before Maria hits in September,
you have 100,000 people on the streets saying
no to austerity, demanding an audit of Puerto
Rico’s more than $70 billion debt, saying
that, in fact, upwards of 60 percent of that
debt was accumulated under conditions that
violated Puerto Rico’s constitution, was
therefore illegal and should not be repaid.
So, if that’s true, if this is an illegal
debt, then PROMESA is also illegal, because
it was created using the debt as an excuse
to impose what Yarimar is describing as unmasked
colonial rule, just handing down fiats by
this board, appointed by the U.S. president,
who is not elected by Puerto Ricans, and,
you know, six of the seven members of the
board don’t live in Puerto Rico.
So it’s another example of exactly what
we’ve been talking about, of Puerto Rico
being ruled by non-Puerto Ricans.
But the point is, is that, before Maria, this
was being forcefully and militantly challenged
through this anti-austerity, anti-debt movement.
And so, what’s being seen—what’s going
on right now is that the hardship of Maria,
this humanitarian emergency, is being explicitly
exploited to try to push through these measures,
actually, that they were having a lot of trouble
getting through before Maria.
This is why, in my piece, you know, I say
this is a new strategy.
This is sort of a shock after shock after
shock doctrine.
It’s not just, you know, what I’ve talked
about and written about before.
AMY GOODMAN: And just to clarify, when you
say “who do not elect the president of the
United States,” Puerto Ricans on the island
cannot vote for president of the United States.
But when they move to the mainland—right?—hundreds
of thousands of people who are moving, many
of them to central Florida, for example, could
change the voting patterns of Florida, they
then can vote for president, right?
They’re American citizens.
YARIMAR BONILLA: Yes, yes.
And the governor has—this particular governor
has been kind of banking on that.
And he has been encouraging the diaspora to
get involved in local politics, to, you know,
vote out politicians that don’t have favorable
policies for Puerto Rico.
There’s a real interest, for him, to bring
new stakeholders to Puerto Rico, while at
the same time increasing the diaspora and
solidifying it as a kind of political force.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, we’re going to continue
this discussion after break.
We’re talking to Yarimar Bonilla, who is
an associate professor of anthropology and
Caribbean studies at Rutgers University, and
Naomi Klein, senior correspondent for The
Intercept, is just back from Puerto Rico,
wrote a major piece for The Intercept, “The
Battle for Paradise: Puerto Ricans and Ultrarich
'Puertopians' Are Locked in a Pitched Struggle
over How to Remake the Island.”
Her latest book, No Is Not Enough: Resisting
Trump’s Shock Politics and Winning the World
We Need.
This is Democracy Now!
Back in a minute.
