AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
the War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
After a dramatic Friday began with the Republican-led
Judiciary Committee planning to approve Supreme
Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and ended with
a pause for a week-long FBI investigation
into Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s claims
that Kavanaugh tried to rape her in high school,
Democrats are now focused on how the probe
is being handled.
President Trump ordered the FBI investigation
Friday after Republican Senator Jeff Flake
of Arizona surprised his colleagues on the
Senate Judiciary Committee by agreeing to
advance Kavanaugh’s nomination only if an
investigation took place.
The committee voted 11 to 10 in favor of Kavanaugh’s
Supreme Court confirmation for a full Senate
vote after the FBI investigation concludes.
Top Democrat on the committee, Senator Dianne
Feinstein of California, is now asking that
the White House and the FBI provide Trump’s
written directive ordering the investigation
into Kavanaugh.
The New York Times reports the FBI’s limited
supplemental background check could be finished
as early as Monday morning.
It says the FBI was directed by the White
House and Senate Republicans to interview
just four people: Kavanaugh’s high school
friends Mark Judge and P.J. Smyth, Dr. Christine
Blasey Ford’s high school friend Leland
Keyser, and another Kavanaugh accuser, Deborah
Ramirez.
Three women have come forward to accuse Brett
Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct.
He has denied all of the sexual assault allegations
against him.
As of Sunday, the lawyer for Dr. Blasey Ford,
Debra Katz, told reporters she had not been
contacted by the FBI, despite repeated efforts
to speak with them.
The lawyer for Julie Swetnick, the third woman
who has accused Kavanaugh of excessive drinking
and inappropriate treatment of women in the
early ’80s, said Saturday she has not been
contacted by the FBI either.
The New Yorker magazine reports the FBI has
failed to follow up with several individuals
who want to speak to the FBI.
In a tweet Sunday afternoon, Trump pushed
back on criticism of the FBI investigation,
writing, quote, “Wow!
Just starting to hear the Democrats, who are
only thinking Obstruct and Delay, are starting
to put out the word that the 'time' and 'scope'
of FBI looking into Judge Kavanaugh and witnesses
is not enough.
Hello!
For them, it will never be enough–stay tuned
and watch!” Trump spoke to reporters over
the weekend.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Having the FBI go
out, do a thorough investigation, whether
it’s three days or seven days—I think
it’s going to be less than a week—but
having them do a thorough investigation, I
actually think, will be a blessing in disguise.
It’ll be a good thing.
I’ll see you in—
REPORTER: Do you have a back-up plan for Mr.
Kavanaugh?
Do you have a back-up plan, sir?
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I don’t have any
back—I don’t need a back-up plan.
AMY GOODMAN: On Saturday, Senator Bernie Sanders
called for the FBI to investigate whether
Kavanaugh committed perjury while testifying
under oath at various times in the past, including
Thursday.
Sanders said, in a letter to committee chair
Chuck Grassley, quote, “A fundamental question
the FBI can help answer is whether Judge Kavanaugh
has been truthful with the committee.
This goes to the very heart of whether he
should be confirmed to the court,” unquote.
Well, we begin today’s show with one of
the two women credited with delaying Brett
Kavanaugh’s confirmation.
Republican Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona was
on his way to cast his vote in the Senate
Judiciary Committee, shortly after announcing
his intentions to confirm, to vote yes for
Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh,
when he was confronted by two women, who are
sexual assault survivors, in an elevator.
The women held the door open, telling Flake,
through their tears, he was dismissing their
pain.
This is one of them, Ana María Archila.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Senator Flake, do you
think that Brett Kavanaugh is telling the
truth?
Do you think that he’s able to hold the
pain of this country and repair it?
That is the work of justice.
The way that justice works is you recognize
harm.
You take responsibility for it, and then you
begin to repair it.
You’re allowing someone who is unwilling
to take responsibility for his own actions
and willing to hold the harm that he has done
to one woman—actually, three women—and
end and repair it.
You are allowing someone who is unwilling
to take responsibility for his own actions
to sit in the highest court of the country
and to have the role of repairing the harm
that has been done in this country to many
people.
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: No.
No “thank you.”
What do you think?
HANDLER: Ma’am, do you want—
REPORTER 1: Senator, do you care to respond?
HANDLER: Ma’am, do you want to the staffer
out here, please?
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: No, I want to talk to
him.
Don’t talk to me.
What do you think?
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: I need to go to the hearing.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I understand, but tell
me.
I’m standing right here in front of you.
What do you have—do you think that he’s
telling the truth?
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
I’m going to the hearing.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: No.
Do you think that he’s telling the truth
to the country?
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
STAFFER: Thank you.
MARIA GALLAGHER: You have power when so many
women are powerless.
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
STAFFER: Thank you.
REPORTER 2: Can you not give them an answer,
Senator?
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
STAFFER: We have our—we have our press available
to talk to you guys, if you want.
REPORTER 2: You just released a press statement.
You don’t have the courage to give them
an answer?
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: Thank you.
STAFFER: OK, thank you.
Thank you.
REPORTER 1: Care to respond?
STAFFER: We have to go.
You can either come in or out.
Thank you.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Saying “thank you”
is not an answer.
This is about the future of our country, sir!
AMY GOODMAN: That was Ana María Archila.
This is Maria Gallagher, who also confronted
Senator Flake, next to her, as he was in the
elevator right before his vote on the Senate
Judiciary Committee.
MARIA GALLAGHER: I was sexually assaulted,
and nobody believed me!
I didn’t tell anyone.
And you’re telling all women that they don’t
matter, that they should just stay quiet because
if they tell you what happened to them, you’re
going to ignore them.
That’s what happened to me, and that’s
what you’re telling all women in America,
that they don’t matter, they should just
keep it to themselves because if they have
told the truth, they’re just going help
that man to power anyway.
That’s what you’re telling all of these
women.
That’s what you’re telling me right now.
Look at me when I’m talking to you.
You’re telling me that my assault doesn’t
matter, that what happened to me doesn’t
matter, and that you’re going to let people
who do these things into power.
That’s what you’re telling me when you
vote for him.
Don’t look away from me.
Look at me and tell me that it doesn’t matter
what happened to me, that you’ll let people
like that go into the highest court of the
land and tell everyone what they can do to
their bodies.
REPORTER 2: Do you have an answer, Senator?
AMY GOODMAN: That was Maria Gallagher, along
with Ana María Archila, the two women who
confronted Senator Flake on Friday.
Shortly afterwards, in a stunning reversal,
Senator Flake announced to his colleagues
on the committee that he was calling to delay
the vote on the Senate floor, though he did
vote for confirmation of Kavanaugh in the
Senate Judiciary Committee.
The vote was 11 to 10, down party lines.
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE: I have been speaking with a number
of people on the other side.
We’ve had conversations ongoing for a while
with regard to making sure that we do due
diligence here.
And I think it would be proper to delay the
floor vote for up to, but not more than, one
week in order to let the FBI continue—to
do an investigation, limited in time and scope,
to the current allegations that are there,
and limit in time to no more than one week.
And I will vote to advance the bill to the
floor with that understanding.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, for more, we’re joined
here in our New York studio by Ana María
Archila, one of the two women who confronted
Senator Flake.
She is co-executive director for the Center
for Popular Democracy.
She confronted Flake with fellow sexual assault
survivor and activist Maria Gallagher, and
she wrote about her experience in a USA Today
column headlined “I confronted Jeff Flake
over Brett Kavanaugh.
Survivors like me won’t stand for injustice.”
Welcome to Democracy Now!
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Thank you so much.
AMY GOODMAN: So, tell us about Friday morning.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Friday morning, I was
getting ready to head back home, after being
in Washington, D.C., for many days with hundreds
of people that had traveled to D.C. to protest
the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh—people
who have healthcare stories and who stand
to lose their healthcare, survivors of sexual
assault, workers, women, people from across
the country.
And I showed up to the Senate atrium, the
building of the Hart—the atrium of the Senate
building, and—at around 8:30 and met Maria
Gallagher, who was there for the first time,
someone who just felt the calling to show
up and support those who were protesting.
And we had time, so she said, “Well, someone
said I should go to Senator Flake’s office,”
and we did.
I had been in front of Senator Flake’s office
on Monday, and it was the first time that
I had decided to tell my story of survival.
And it seemed important to me to go back and
try to talk to him.
I did not think that we were going to find
him.
I did not think that we were really going
to be able to have this interaction with him.
But I’m an organizer, and I know that we
have to fight the fight up until the very
last minute, that that’s how we exercise
power together.
AMY GOODMAN: And he had just issued his statement.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Our reaction, the reaction
that people are seeing in the elevator, is
the reaction of Maria and I just finding out
that he issued a statement and he was ready
to vote for Brett Kavanaugh, even after hearing
the very powerful and gut-wrenching testimony
of Dr. Blasey Ford, who stood in front of
him and all the Republican men and the Democratic
senators to share her story because she felt
compelled as a citizen to—she felt compelled
to share her story to protect her country.
I felt compelled to share my story to join
her in solidarity and also to protect my children.
I am deadly afraid that Brett Kavanaugh will
roll back decades of progress in our country
on women’s rights, on civil rights, on LGBTQ
equality.
And I do not want my children to have fewer
rights than I have right now.
AMY GOODMAN: So, explain what happened when
he went into the elevator or when you spotted
him.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: There were some reporters
standing around the door of his office.
They spotted him first, and they ran behind
him.
Maria and I ran behind them and asked—
AMY GOODMAN: You didn’t know Maria before.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I did not know Maria.
We had just met.
I didn’t know her story.
I knew—she was telling me that it was her
first time trying to talk to an elected official,
so I was giving her tips, like “You can
share your story.
Tell them why you’re there.”
And we just ran into the elevator and just
put our foot in the door as it was closing,
and then just stayed there.
And the adrenaline of running behind him,
the fact that we knew that we just had a few
minutes, we used those minutes in the best
way we could.
We, I think, without really explicitly talking
about it, we were really demanding a connection.
We were really asking him to be there in that
moment and feel the pain and the rage that
women across the country and survivors across
the country are feeling right now.
AMY GOODMAN: And so, you told him you were
sexually assaulted.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I said to him, “Senator
Flake, just a few days ago, I stood in front
of your office and for the first time shared
my story of sexual assault.
I did it because I recognize myself, my own
experience, in Dr. Ford’s testimony.
And I want to know, you know, what are you—what
message are you sending to your children and
my children?
Do you think it’s—are you comfortable
with the idea of putting someone who’s been
accused of sexual assault in the Supreme Court
for the next 50 years, and for both of our
children to grow up in that country?”
AMY GOODMAN: So you were also just publicly
talking about your sexual assault, and you
have national cameras on you.
Had you told your family yet?
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I had not told my father.
So, immediately after that interaction, I
texted him, and I said, “You’re going
to hear something that we haven’t talked
about.
I want you to know that I am OK.”
And the reason why I didn’t tell him for
more than 30 years is because I didn’t want
him to feel pain.
I didn’t want him to feel like he didn’t
protect me.
It’s the same reason it took me many years,
more than 10 years, before I told my mother.
And that fear that I had as a child was confirmed.
The thing that my father texted back was,
“I am so sorry I was not able to protect
you.”
So, I know that we don’t tell our stories
because we are often confused, ashamed, feel
responsible and are afraid to cause pain to
the people that love us.
AMY GOODMAN: Which is one of the answers to
why Christine Ford hasn’t told her story
for all of these decades.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: That’s exactly right.
I want to say, you know, lots of people are
talking about—are asking me, “Do you think
that you changed Flake’s—Senator Flake’s
mind?”
And I think if it had just been Maria and
I in that elevator and if he had just heard
that for the first time, the story of someone
for the first time, I do not think that he
would have changed his vote.
I think it was the accumulative effect of
thousands and thousands of people pouring—like,
going through this incredibly painful experience
to try to change the culture, to bring into
existence a new country, a country where we
are not constantly ignoring, disbelieving,
doubting the truthfulness and the value of
women, of our stories, of our voices, a country
where we’re not relegated to experiencing
not just sexual violence, but political violence,
by being, and economic violence.
So, I think all of us are doing this incredible
kind of labor of love of telling our stories
and, through that pain, bringing a new country
into existence.
And that’s really what’s happening right
now.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Senator Flake left you at
that point—
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —and voted in the Senate Judiciary
Committee to confirm Judge Kavanaugh as a
Supreme Court justice.
So it was 11-10, party-line vote.
Where were you when you heard this and then
when you heard that he said he would not vote
yes again, where it counts, on the Senate
floor, unless there was an FBI investigation?
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I was in the same atrium
of the Senate building where I had met Maria,
when I heard both of those events.
I was not close to a TV screen.
I wasn’t watching the events as they were
unfolding.
I was hearing reports from people that were
watching it.
And at both points, I was, you know, surprised
and shocked and reminded that, really, like,
people, it’s—that if we sit back and allow
events to unfold by themselves, we give up
all of our power.
This nomination, the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh,
was a given at the beginning of the summer.
And everybody assumed this was going to happen
without any snag.
And I think people who know that they were
going to lose their healthcare, women who
knew that our rights were at stake said, “Well,
we still have to fight.”
And it was that spirit of like, “Well, we
still have to do whatever we can to try to
stop it,” that brought Maria and I to that
building.
AMY GOODMAN: No matter what happens, you have
changed history.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I hope that we really
change history, all of us, everyone that’s
watching today, by showing up this week.
I think we have an opportunity to change history.
I want to make sure that we don’t sit back
and allow the FBI to resolve—to be the deciding
factor in who gets nominated to the Supreme
Court.
The court works for us.
We all, in the same way that we’re asking
senators to take this decision very—to take
this responsibility very seriously, I want
to ask people in this country to take this
moment very seriously.
Call your senators.
If you’re near Washington, D.C., come to
Washington, D.C.
Show up at the Hart Senate Building every
day this week at 9:00.
Come to a rally that’s going to happen at
noon on Thursday in D.C.
AMY GOODMAN: You are a true organizer.
I think the media denigrates activists.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: They will often say someone came
for the first time of her own volition, she
had never protested before.
And I think implicit in that are that there
are what they call professional activists.
You are the co-executive director of the Center
for Popular Democracy.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: Talk about what that means, “popular
democracy.”
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I think popular democracy
is both what we aspire this country to be—we,
the people at the Center for Popular Democracy,
the people who are showing up for the first
time, the people who have been showing up
for years, are—all of us share this idea
that democracy is not a spectator sport, that
it is—that we breathe life into it every
time that we engage, and that it belongs to
us.
It’s the way—it’s both our protective
shield, in some ways, against corporate power,
but it is also the way in which we express
our love for each other and our willingness
to take care of each other.
So, that’s—both of those ideas are, you
know, why popular democracy is the thing that
my organization is trying to inspire people
to participate in.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, I want to thank you so
much for being with us.
What would you like to see the FBI ask?
What questions do you feel need to be answered?
And the issue of the number of people who
have said they want to talk to the FBI who
have not been contacted yet?
President Trump says they have one week, and
the investigation is very limited.
ANA MARÍA ARCHILA: I want to make sure that
the women who were so courageous and came
out in public to share their experience of
Brett Kavanaugh get a full hearing, that the
FBI really does everything in its power to
understand their stories.
I want to make sure that the investigation
also reaches into all the people that were
around Brett Kavanaugh at that time.
I think the country deserves, and we desperately
need people to have, trust in the court.
But again, I don’t want us to just give
up our power and wait for the FBI to resolve
this question.
I want all of us to—you know, I want all
of us to become a legion of elevator women
across the country.
Let’s make sure that they look at us.
Let’s show up and say, “Look at me.
Look at me.”
That is what social movements are made of:
“Look at me.”
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Ana María Archila, you
have clearly redefined elevator music.
Ana María Archila is co-executive director
of the Center for Popular Democracy.
She, along with Maria Gallagher, confronted
Republican Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona in
an elevator just before he was to vote in
the Senate Judiciary Committee, right after
he announced he was going to support Judge
Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court.
Shortly after the confrontation, Senator Flake
did vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh, but he
said he would not vote yes again unless there
was an FBI investigation.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, Lisa Graves joins us to
talk about what that investigation should
look like and what are the parameters that
are being placed on that.
Stay with us.
