AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: We spend the rest of the hour
with the legendary, award-winning author Arundhati
Roy.
She won the Booker Prize in 1997 for her novel
The God of Small Things.
In 2017, 20 years after the publication of
her first novel, she published another work
of fiction, which is just out in paperback,
titled The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
This is a clip from a short film introducing
the novel, narrated by Arundhati Roy and directed
by Sanjay Kak and Tarun Bhartiya.
ARUNDHATI ROY: She lived in the graveyard
like a tree.
At dawn she saw the crows off and welcomed
the bats home.
At dusk she did the opposite.
…
When people called her names—clown without
a circus, queen without a palace—she let
the hurt blow through her branches like a
breeze and used the music of her rustling
leaves as balm to ease the pain.
…
“Who says my name is Anjum?
I’m not Anjum, I’m Anjuman.
I’m a mehfil, I’m a gathering.
Of everybody and nobody, of everything and
nothing.
Is there anyone else you would like to invite?
Everyone’s invited.”
…
Dear Comrade Azad Bharathiya Garu, My comrade
Suguna knows to send this letter to you when
she hears that I am no more.
As you know we are banned, underground people,
and this letter from me you can call as underground
of underground.
…
How to tell a shattered story?
By slowly becoming everybody.
No.
By slowly becoming everything.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: That’s a short film introducing
Arundhati Roy’s most recent book.
The film is directed by Sanjay Kak and Tarun
Bhartiya.
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness was longlisted
for the Booker Prize and nominated for the
National Book Critics Circle Award.
The Washington Post praised the book, writing,
quote, “This is a remarkable creation, a
story both intimate and international, swelling
with comedy and outrage, a tale that cradles
the world’s most fragile people even while
it assaults the Subcontinent’s most brutal
villains.
… [It] will leave you awed by the heat of
its anger and the depth of its compassion.”
AMY GOODMAN: Indian literary critic Nilanjana
Roy hailed the novel as, quote, “an elegy
for a bulldozed world.”
Arundhati Roy received the 2002 Lannan Foundation
Cultural Freedom Prize, and her journalism
and essays have been collected in several
books, including The End of Imagination, Field
Notes on Democracy: Listening to Grasshoppers
and Capitalism: A Ghost Story.
Arundhati Roy, welcome back to the United
States and to Democracy Now!
ARUNDHATI ROY: Thank you.
Thank you, Amy.
AMY GOODMAN: It’s a great honor to be with
you.
So your book has just come out in paperback,
and we want to talk about also the response
to it over this year.
But why don’t you start off by talking about
why you chose to go back to writing a novel,
and the title, The Ministry of Utmost Happiness?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, you know, when I finished—when
I wrote The God of Small Things, I never,
ever saw myself as a person who, you know,
because I had written a successful book, I
had to just keep doing the same thing.
And I always said that I’d only write a
book when I had a book to write.
And for 20 years I spent sort of traveling
through India, you know, in the valleys and
the forests, whether in Kashmir, in the forests
of Bastar, trying to understand the very massive
and sudden changes that were happening, particularly
post what they call globalization, you know?
And it was obvious that this new economy was
traveling parallel with a huge impetus of
Hindu nationalism, and that both were traveling
companions.
And now, of course, you know, it’s at its
peak.
The battles are both so joined at the hip.
And I—
NERMEEN SHAIKH: If I could just interrupt
briefly, Arundhati—
ARUNDHATI ROY: Yeah.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: If you could just explain
the context in which liberalization or globalization
came in to India?
What accounted for the transformation of the
economy after, really, decades of a different
kind of economic system?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, obviously, until, you
know, 1990, India was what—I mean, India
called itself a nonaligned state.
It had a protected economy, an economy that
was doing badly, by the way, for reasons that
we all know, of massive corruption, of these
very, very centralized forms of development.
But after—basically, after the end of the
war in Afghanistan—I mean, the war hasn’t
ended in Afghanistan, but after the collapse
of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, it became—India
became completely aligned.
Now it thinks of itself as an ally of Israel
and the U.S.
And the markets—and when the world became
unipolar—now it’s collapsing that, but,
then, the markets were opened, and liberalization
entered at a speed which was hard to imagine.
You know, every form of protection to workers
was dismantled.
Rivers, forests—everything was privatized.
Now education, health.
All of it is in a state of collapse.
You know, in a way, the polarization that
we all know globalization brings is happening.
And you have—it was almost as though you
had a feudal country, which—a feudal and
colonized country, which, in 1947—from 1947
to 1990, tried, even if symbolically, to—I
mean, the radical movements in the '60s, for
example, were talking about the redistribution
of wealth, the redistribution of land, of
justice, of revolution.
But suddenly this new economy has pushed even
the radical discourse into a space where people
are just asking to let, let's say, indigenous
people continue to live on what little land
they have, instead of it being taken over
by the corporation.
The idea of redistribution is over.
And yet, you have a situation where, in a
way, it’s a form of corporate feudalism,
because the land which belonged to the upper
castes now belong to the corporates, which
are upper-caste, you know?
So, caste, feudalism, capitalism—all of
it merges in a very unique way in that place.
And you had—for example, you had 50 years
of some gesture towards what we call reservation,
what you call affirmative action.
Now you have privatization in which Dalits
are being pushed out all over again, pushed
out of educational institutions, pushed out
of jobs, pushed out of—so you have the consolidation
of upper-caste, upper-class capitalism.
You have a situation where, like everywhere
else, you know, a hundred families own 25
percent, or something, of the GDP.
And you have a consolidation of inequality,
which is incredible.
But how do you manage that in a place like
that?
You manage it by—with the flag of Hindu
nationalism, by making people who are actually
losing feel that they’re winning the Hindu
nation.
And you isolate the Muslim community.
Last election proved that you don’t need
the Muslim vote.
So the Muslims of India, who number maybe
150 to 200 million people, are actually now
surplus people.
They are not—their vote is not required.
The work through which they have sustained
themselves—you know, the meat industry,
the cattle industry, the leather industry—all
under attack, shut down.
So they’ve been pushed to the bottom.
They are being ghettoized, lynched.
So, you know, Hindu nationalism is the management
policy to quell the unrest that liberalization
has brought.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, let me just go back,
because the initial question that Amy asked
had been about—and I had interrupted you—about
what brought you back to fiction.
So, in a way, when you wrote The God of Small
Things, which came out in 1997?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Yeah.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Is that right?
At that moment, that’s when these massive
transformations as a result of liberalization
were coming in and accelerating in India.
So, could you explain the time that you spent
in these 20 years, the kind of writing you
did then, and why—I mean, you’ve been
working on this book, The Ministry, for the
last 10 years.
So what brought you back to fiction?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, you know, after I wrote
The God of Small Things, and when it won the
Booker—I’ve spoken about this many times—you
know, I was suddenly sort of being marketed
as the face of this new liberal, neoliberal
India, which was something I was very uncomfortable
with.
And then, in 1998, the BJP government, the
NDA, the National Democratic Alliance, the
BJP being the main party, came in and did
a series of nuclear tests.
And for me, somehow, the national—those
tests, you know, changed the national discourse,
in terms of what is acceptable to be said
openly.
You know, it isn’t that the—I mean, the
RSS, which is the party—the organization
which Modi belongs to, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak
Sangh, which has always believed that India
should be declared a Hindu nation, was actually
formed in 1925.
So we are watching something that has been
inexorably growing to this place.
So it’s not that the nuclear tests started
something new, but they jump-started a discourse.
They allowed things to be said in public that
were not acceptable earlier.
They gave that a kind of acceptance.
And then I wrote this essay called “The
End of Imagination,” and so suddenly the
fairy princess was kicked off her pedestal.
But that led me into 20 years of following
what was going on, you know, the protests
against dams, the—you know, for example,
I wrote a big essay called “The Greater
Common Good” about the protest against the
Narmada.
And, to me, the—
AMY GOODMAN: The Narmada dam.
ARUNDHATI ROY: The Narmada dam, sorry, the
dams that are built on this Narmada River.
And, to me, that political understanding and
education that I received from that movement,
I see the bones of—the sacrificial bones
of this uniquely Indian fascism really in
the foundations of that dam, you know, really
the idea that there is a community that is
more entitled than another, the idea that
you can take the water from a river valley,
centralize it in a dam reservoir and then
decide who should—who should get that water.
I mean, recently, now that the dam is built,
now that everything that the anti-dam movement
has said has come true, we had an incredible
spectacle of: whatever little water there
was in the reservoir, which should have been
used for the farmers of Gujarat through the
drought months, given what the dam said it
was going to do, was released, in a rush,
the day—just weeks before the Gujarat election.
For what?
For the prime minister to land a seaplane
as an election spectacle.
And today, that water is gone.
And what little water there is in the canal
is being protected by the police from farmers
who need it.
You know, this is fascism.
It’s not just concentration camps, you know?
So, I mean, 20 years of traveling, of seeing,
of writing, but all those essays were always
very urgent interventions in a situation that
was closing down.
There was something very urgent about the
way they were written.
But, simultaneously, there was all this kind
of gathering in me—for example, the travels
in Kashmir.
I could not write about Kashmir.
Nobody really can easily write about Kashmir
in nonfiction, because what happens there
is not just based on what evidence you can
produce, you know, the terror that seeds the
air, the terror of living in the most dense
military occupation in the world, half a million
soldiers, the complicated—
AMY GOODMAN: Which most people here really
know almost nothing about.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Nothing about.
I mean, just imagine the fact that just in
the last few, two or three, years, a new technique
of firing pellet guns into crowds has blinded
completely or partially more than a thousand
people.
A thousand people, you know?
But under the banner of this market-friendly
democracy, no one’s going to talk about
it.
Under the banner of a democracy that buys
huge amounts of weapons from France, from
America, we are being courted.
All those dark secrets are being swept under
the carpet, because we are buying weapons
from the West.
And how will the West survive if we idiots
don’t buy weapons?
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, Kashmir is one of the
places that features prominently in your—in
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
It’s one of the settings of the book.
Now, you’ve pointed out, as people have
said, this book is suffused with politics,
with the implication being that somehow fiction
stands apart from politics or partisanship.
You said in a recent interview that the elite
are partisan and so privileged that they don’t
need to appear to be.
So, could you explain that, and also the reception
of your book in India in those terms?
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, look, you know, I have
always found it remarkable—I mean, The God
of Small Things was a political book.
After it won the Booker Prize, people in India
especially, but a lot of people, particularly
in Kerala, you know, liked to think about
it, because they wanted to claim me, but not
the politics of the book, so let’s ignore
the fact that it’s about the most brutal
and ancient social hierarchy that any human
society has produced, which is caste.
Let’s not talk about that.
It can be a book about children, or it can
be a book very lyrically written, and so on.
But, for me, the fact is that for fiction
writers to avoid writing about caste, to avoid
writing about Kashmir, you have to assume
some extremely complicated yoga posture, you
know?
The real thing is, can you look at the air?
Can you breathe—this is the air we breathe
there.
It’s not just horror.
It’s music.
It’s poetry.
It’s Kashmir.
It’s caste.
It’s all of that.
You know, so I don’t—I am not in the least
bit shy of saying that, to me, as a writer,
to be able to write about love, to be able
to write about intimacy, about music, about
poetry and violence, with the same intensity,
is what matters to me.
But to try and edit out these things because
you don’t think that maybe the market wants
it, I don’t care about that.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, Arundhati, tell us the
plot of the book.
It begins and ends in a cemetery.
Hindus are not buried in cemeteries; they’re
cremated.
So they’re Muslim.
And it’s about, really, not the fringe minority,
but the fringe majority, in a sense.
But tell us about the characters, how unusual
this book is.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Well, look, Amy, that’s a
rather mean question: “Tell me the plot
of the book!”
It’s difficult to say, to answer that.
To me, what can I say?
I think of it as a city.
You know, the plot is a city, like a big city
of my part of the world.
It has an old-world section.
It has people trying to plan it, and then
those citizens unplanning it.
It’s always sabotaging itself, the plot.
And yet, it does inscribe itself on the surface
of the Earth, against the contours of nature,
as cities do and as stories do, you know.
But I really wanted to write about the air,
you know?
I did not—I do not see this book as a book
about issues, about political issues.
One of the main characters, for—it’s not
about marginalized people, as you say, at
all, you know?
It’s got characters who are all—in some
ways, India—India is a society that lives
in a very fine grid.
Only the West thinks of us as anarchic.
But we actually live in a very iron grid or
mesh, in which everyone lives within their
caste, within their community, within their
ethnicity.
It’s less than, you know, like—I don’t
know—3 percent, or something, of people
who will marry outside their community.
So, the characters in this book somehow all
have a border running through them, a pretty
incendiary border running through them, whether
it’s of gender or caste or religious conversion.
And the book, see, it sort of begins in the
old city of Delhi, and then it just spirals
out, you know, into the new metropolis, into—I
mean, into Kashmir, as you said, but the nerve
center of the book is this place called Jantar
Mantar, which has been shut down now, but
it used to be the place where protesters from
all over India would gather.
And it’s a place where I spent a lot of
time.
And one night—I would spend nights there.
I mean, it was just in a most interesting
place, you know?
And one night when I was there, a baby appeared
on the pavement, abandoned.
And all of these movements—Bhopal, Kashmir,
Narmada—all the wisdom, all the politics,
of all of us, didn’t know what to do with
that abandoned baby.
And it made me think, you know.
And so, although that’s not how the book
begins, that is the nerve center.
The scene in Jantar Mantar, the chapter called
“Nativity,” where this baby, who is the
antithesis of Christ, is born, a little black
girl swaddled in garbage.
And the story—in fact, for me, that chapter,
it’s like the inversion of the ball at the
beginning of War and Peace, you know, where
all the beautiful people gather.
This is the gutter ball, you know?
And from there, the story takes you out.
AMY GOODMAN: And the main other characters,
outside of the baby, your main character?
ARUNDHATI ROY: So, the characters are—there
is Anjum.
She’s born as Aftab into a Shia Muslim family
in Old Delhi, born as a boy, but soon discovers
that she is really a woman trapped in a man’s
body, and, at the age of 16, leaves home to
live in a community of hijras, the Urdu word
for trans people.
She lives in the Khwabgah, which is the House
of Dreams, in Old Delhi, with a group of people
who belong to a variety of genders, as complicated
as the duniya, which is how they refer to
the outside world.
Duniya, again, in Urdu, means the world.
So there’s themselves and the world, as
separate.
And Anjum grows—I mean, spends her teenage
years, and until she’s about 40, there.
One of the most beautiful and most celebrated
hijras of Delhi, you know, the slow news story,
the—all the foreign correspondents, everybody
courts her, wants, you know, to do this story.
And then she actually—and then, you know,
but the thing about her is she’s not—that’s
not only who she is.
She’s not only a hijra.
She’s a Shia.
She’s a woman who wants to be a mother.
She adopts a little girl.
And then she gets caught up in the massacre
of 2002 in Gujarat, and, of course, caught
up not because she’s a hijra, but because
she’s a Muslim.
And, in fact, she escapes, because she’s
a hijra, and people think it’s bad luck
to kill a hijra.
AMY GOODMAN: And this really took place in
2002, the massacre.
ARUNDHATI ROY: Yeah, the massacre, of course,
it took place, and when Modi was the chief
minister.
And then Anjum comes back, is unable to continue
life as she knew it, and she moves into a
nearby graveyard, where her relatives are.
And slowly, as she recovers from her trauma,
she begins to build a guest house there.
Then there’s her friend Saddam Hussein,
who’s a young Dalit who also escapes from
a massacre of Dalits, again by the Hindu right.
And he, in anger, decides to do what Ambedkar,
the great leader of the Untouchables, did.
He said, “You must renounce Hinduism.”
So he renounces Hinduism and becomes a Muslim
and calls himself Saddam Hussein.
And he’s her partner in running the guest
house.
And then you have one of the characters called
Garson Hobart, who’s a very upper-caste,
Brahmanical intelligence officer, who is,
in a way—part of him is the voice of the
state, you know, who understands things in
a historical perspective, who has the ability
to wait, to watch, to think in this generous—he’s
a member of, let’s say, the Nehruvian elite,
who has been displaced now by this new Hindu
right wing.
But Hobart, because that’s the name of a
character he plays in a college play, Garson
Hobart, is a pretty brilliant person, you
know, and someone that all of us do have to
contend with.
He’s not easy meat, by any means.
And then you have Musa and his friend Tilottama.
Musa is a Kashmiri; Tilottama, his love—who
are both—Tilottama is a strange woman living
on the border of sanity and insanity, you
know, a very, very individual and irreverent
and lowly woman—lowly in the sense that
she’s a loved woman, but she doesn’t know
how to really receive it, because she lives
on the borders of so many things.
AMY GOODMAN: Arundhati Roy is describing her
latest novel, her second.
It’s called The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
And we’re going to continue with her in
a moment.
AMY GOODMAN: “Ain’t No Love in the Heart
of the City,” a version by Indian-American
musician Zeshan B, performing right here in
our Democracy Now!
studio.
To see the performances and the interview,
go to democracynow.org.
Yes, this is Democracy Now!
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
Our guest is Arundhati Roy, the author of
the new novel, well, now out in paperback,
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
Arundhati won the Booker Prize in 1997 for
her first book, The God of Small Things.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: So, Arundhati Roy, we concluded
our first part of the discussion by talking
about the book, The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
And the book more or less concludes with Modi,
an allusion to Modi.
You had said earlier that he’s, although
formally associated with the Bharatiya Janata
Party—I mean, that’s how he was elected—his
real ties are with the RSS.
So, could you explain what the RSS stands
for and why it’s so significant that he’s
more closely aligned with the RSS than with
the PJP?
ARUNDHATI ROY: So, the RSS today—RSS stands
for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which
is basically a sort of national self-help
society.
But it is the most powerful organization in
the country today.
It was founded, as I said, in the 1920s, and
it has always believed in rewriting the constitution.
It has openly believed that India should be
declared a Hindu nation.
Its ideologues have openly called Muslims
of India—have said, you know, the Muslims
of India are like the Jews of Germany.
Now, it has—it is a formidable organization.
You know, it has—it works in education.
It has women’s wings, slum wings, forest
dweller wings, publishing wing.
It really writes the story of what is going
on today.
And it’s not just Modi, but almost all his
ministers, including the former Prime Minister
Vajpayee, Advani.
All of these people were members of the RSS.
So, whether or not the BJP loses elections
or wins elections, the RSS’s work is inexorable.
You know, it just goes on.
And so, the BJP is just really the political
arm of the RSS.
There isn’t any way that the BJP can have
an independent agenda.
It is fused with the RSS.
So, the danger today is that because of the
massive majority with which they came to power,
every institution has now been penetrated
by the RSS.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to do Part 2 of
this discussion at democracynow.org.
Arundhati Roy, author of the new novel The
Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
And that does it for our broadcast.
Oh, and yet another Democracy Now!
family announcement: Jahan Guzder Turner,
welcome to the world.
Congratulations to our dear producer Deena
Guzder and her husband Peter.
What a privilege it was for Nermeen and I
to get to hang out with our very dear newest
member of the Democracy Now!
family, Jahan.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And, Jahan, which means world
or universe, welcome to the world.
AMY GOODMAN: And the universe.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
