AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
the War and Peace report, I’m Amy Goodman
with Juan Gonzalez.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I’m Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
There have been a number of significant developments
in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation
into the Trump administration.
CNN is reporting Mueller is now investigating
Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner and his
attempts to secure financing for his family’s
business while working on the president’s
transition team.
Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Times is reporting
former Trump campaign aide Rick Gates has
agreed to plead guilty and to testify against
Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign manager.
Under the deal, Gates will plead guilty to
money laundering and illegal foreign lobbying.
AMY GOODMAN: These developments come just
days after the Justice Department indicted
13 Russians and three companies in connection
with efforts to influence the 2016 presidential
election by orchestrating an online propaganda
effort to undermine the U.S. election system.
The indictment claims the Russians spread
negative information online about Hillary
Clinton, and support Donald Trump, as well
as Bernie Sanders.
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein announced
the indictments Friday.
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROD ROSENSTEIN: The
indictment charges 13 Russian nationals and
three Russian companies for committing federal
crimes while seeking to interfere in the United
States’ political system, including the
2016 presidential election.
The defendants allegedly conducted what they
called “information warfare” against the
United States, with the stated goal of spreading
distrust towards the candidates and the political
system in general.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: President Trump responded
to the indictments on Twitter by lashing out
at Democrats, the Mueller investigation, the
Obama administration and the FBI.
In one tweet, he wrote, quote, “Very sad
that the FBI missed all of the many signals
sent out by the Florida school shooter.
This is not acceptable.
They are spending too much time trying to
prove Russian collusion with the Trump campaign–there
is no collusion.”
AMY GOODMAN: Trump also criticized National
Security Adviser General H.R.
McMaster, who said the indictments offer incontrovertible
evidence that the Russians interfered in the
2016 election.
H.R.
McMASTER: And as you can see with the FBI
indictment, the evidence is now really incontrovertible
and available in the public domain, whereas
in the past it was difficult to attribute,
for a couple of reasons.
First, technically, it was difficult, but
then also you didn’t want divulge your intelligence
capabilities.
But now that this is in the arena of a law
enforcement investigation, it’s going to
be very apparent to everyone.
AMY GOODMAN: To talk more about these developments,
we go to Grand Rapids, Michigan, to talk to
Marcy Wheeler, independent journalist who
covers national security and civil liberties,
runs the website EmptyWheel.net.
Marcy, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Why don’t you lay out what came down on
Friday and then the response of Trump?
I mean, this is in the midst of the horror
that took place in Florida, the 17 people
killed in the massacre at the high school.
The weekend, President Trump spends, in a
massive tweetstorm around this, hardly mentioning
the massacre.
MARCY WHEELER: Right.
So, the indictment was for online trolling
done by an organization called the Internet
Research Agency in St. Petersburg.
And it involves both Facebook ads, Facebook
posts, Twitter accounts, Instagram—a range
of social media activity that purported to
be American, but in fact was Russians trying
to gin up bad blood here in the United States
and ultimately supporting Donald Trump.
As Rosenstein said in the quote you had, it’s
13 Russians and a number of Russian businesses.
But what is interesting about the case, that
the charges are conspiracy to defraud the
United States—and I’ll come back to that—but
then wire fraud and identity theft.
So, there are real crimes here, the crimes
that these trolls used to pretend to be American
but weren’t really American.
But what Mueller actually laid out in the
indictment is that the problem with this is
that in the United States it’s illegal to
engage in certain kinds of activity without
making it clear who’s behind the activity.
And in this case, this is the activity tied
to electing one or another presidential candidate.
And that’s how he got to the conspiracy
to defraud the United States charge, which
is interesting because it’s the same primary
charge that Paul Manafort and Rick Gates got
charged with.
So you’re beginning to see where Mueller
is going with the larger investigation.
And as McMaster said, you’re seeing now
real evidence tied to claims that Russia was
behind this activity.
And I think you’ll see more Republicans
like him, and even Republicans who were involved.
I mean, the indictment doesn’t charge any
Americans, but it lays out activities that
a lot of good-faith Trump volunteers and campaign
workers were engaged in.
And their actions are perhaps now tainted
or got touched or got spun by Russians, which,
you know, isn’t fair to them, much less
Hillary Clinton, who was—you know, who was
ultimately targeted by it.
So, I think you’re going to see a change
in how, especially Republicans, but even skeptics,
more generally, how they approach this issue.
But we also now, I think, see where Mueller
is going with the rest of the investigation
better.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Now, Marcy, what do you make
about the statement by Rod Rosenstein that
no Americans willingly participated, according
to this indictment, and that there’s no
evidence that the alleged interference actually
altered the election outcome?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, for one, I’m sure he
said that to keep Trump happy and keep himself
in his job.
But I think it’s actually really important
he said that.
As I said, you can look at the indictment—and
I do this in a post I did on Saturday—and
there are at least 20 Americans who were just
engaging in politics.
They were putting together campaign events.
They were engaging in online speech.
That’s like, you know, the most sacred part
of being an American citizen.
And yet, they were unknowingly interacting
with Russians, who were trying to and, at
times, actually funding or encouraging certain
activities.
So, I do think it’s important—he didn’t
say no Americans were involved.
There are ways in which the indictment suggests
certain events may show up later in the investigation.
For example, the indictment focuses on two
events, a pro-Hillary—an anti-Hillary and
pro-Trump event, that took place in the summer
of 2016, and it focuses on a great deal of
Florida activity.
The Florida activity is of particular interest
because the Guccifer 2.0, who’s the persona
that is believed to have been used by the
Russians to leak stolen documents, that figure
released a ton of documents on—from the
Democrats on Florida campaigns.
So, Florida Republicans are actually the ones
who most concretely can be shown to have benefited
from the stolen documents from the Democrats.
So, it may be that we’re going to see the
Florida activity tied back in to the actual
hack and leak later on.
But what Rosenstein was importantly saying
is that all of these Americans—most of them
named in the indictment were Trump supporters—they
didn’t do anything wrong.
They were just engaging in politics, and Russians
came in and used them, basically, to kind
of turn their politics into something that
it wasn’t.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, the key here—and Rosenstein
said it, Trump said it throughout the weekend—is
that this didn’t prove any kind of collusion.
But Rosenstein said this.
This is separate from it.
It has to do with Russians interfering with
the elections—something the U.S. government
knows well about over the decades—right?—in
being involved with interfering with other
countries’ elections.
But can you talk about what happened in Florida,
for example, the protests?
And also, describe this internet troll farm
in St. Petersburg and how it operates.
MARCY WHEELER: Well, I mean, Amy, you make
a good point, that the indictment calls this
information “warfare.”
It says that the troll farm considered themselves
to be engaged in information warfare.
But sure, we do that, absolutely.
And so, one of the questions is, you know:
Where are the lines going to be drawn?
What are the norms?
But, basically, these are people in St. Petersburg
who were fluent English speakers, who were
paid to engage in certain themes, use fake
Twitter accounts, basically, to engage in
certain themes and kind of just press the
limits of certain partisan divides that already
exist here, and not just partisan divides.
They were also playing on religion and race,
guns.
So, they were basically paid to rile up Americans
even further than our politics already do.
Although I’ll also say that all sides engaged
in similar kind of behavior in 2016.
I mean, campaigns do this, as well.
Campaigns even had bots.
The difference here, according to the indictment,
is that these bots were hiding the fact that
it was a Russian effort, whereas, you know,
Hillary or Trump bots were claiming correctly
to be Hillary or Trump bots.
One of the most interesting things about the
indictment is it describes how much, how well
these trolls were able to get actual people
here in the United States to go out and, say,
pay an actress to pretend to be Hillary Clinton,
and pay somebody to build a cage, so that
they could, you know, drag around a fake Hillary
Clinton in a fake cage to play on the theme
of Hillary going to prison.
So, that’s the sort of alarming thing, is
that from St. Petersburg, they were able to
get actual campaign events put together by
pretending to be Americans.
And I think, again, none of this—none of
the American side of this was charged.
And the people described in the indictment
probably—you know, they were just engaging
in good-faith politics.
Whether or not I agree with their politics,
they were just doing what we’re supposed
to do in the United States, which is engage
in politics.
But we do know, as I said, that the Guccifer
2.0 figure leaked a bunch of Democratic targeting
data on the Florida races, and so that state
is one to watch, and those events are ones
to watch, I think.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Marcy, could you talk about
this now L.A. Times report that Rick Gates,
the former aide to Trump’s presidential
campaign, is expected to plead guilty and
testify against Paul Manafort?
What’s the significance of this, potentially?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, it’s another cooperating
witness there.
With the Internet Research Agency indictment
on Friday, there actually was not another
guilty plea that was announced, for a guy
who had sold bank accounts that the trolls
used to set up PayPal accounts.
So, Gates, if he does flip, will be the fourth
cooperating witness for Mueller.
He is important because he was Paul Manafort,
campaign manager’s deputy throughout the
summer of 2016, which is when—Gates was
not at the June 9th meeting, where Russians
sort of promised to sell—to offer dirt on
Hillary Clinton.
But Gates was, for example, in the loop on
discussions about setting up a meeting between
Trump and Vladimir Putin.
Manafort forwarded him an email and said,
“We need to kind of hide—we need to not
signal”—it’s unclear what that means.
Gates probably knows what that means.
But “we need to not signal on this.”
And so, you know, the public report in the
L.A. Times is that Gates will be testifying
predominately against Manafort, not against
Trump.
But I’m a little bit skeptical of that,
one, because Gates was very much in the loop
throughout the summer, and, two, because Gates
stayed on.
He was still working in the transition team
all the way through the inauguration.
So, I suspect Gates has more to tell the Mueller
team than the L.A. Times piece makes out.
And it just adds to the pressure.
You get the feeling—and Trump has even said
as much.
Trump, a couple of weeks ago, said to Howard
Fineman that he doesn’t think Manafort will
flip on him, and so he thinks he’s OK.
But with Gates flipping and cooperating with
the Mueller team, it makes it far more likely
that Manafort is going to be forced to do
so.
And that gets into things like that June 9th
meeting.
AMY GOODMAN: Marcy Wheeler, I wanted to get
your response to The Intercept's Glenn Greenwald,
who wrote a piece, “A Consensus Emerges:
Russia Committed an ’Act of War' on Par
with Pearl Harbor and 9/11.
Should the U.S. Response Be Similar?”
He writes, “All of this underscores the
serious dangers many have pointed to for more
than a year about why all this unhinged rhetoric
is so alarming.
If you really believe that Russia—with some
phishing links sent to John Podesta and some
fake Facebook ads and Twitter bots—committed
an 'act of war' of any kind, let alone one
on par with Pearl Harbor and 9/11, then it’s
inevitable that extreme retaliatory measures
will be considered and likely triggered.
How does one justify a mere imposition of
sanctions in the face of an attack similar
to Pearl Harbor or 9/11?”
That’s the question of Glenn Greenwald,
Marcy.
MARCY WHEELER: Well, so, with the trolling,
let’s be really clear that while Russia
did spend a lot of money to do this, it’s
a drop in the bucket compared to what either
side, the Republicans or Hillary Clinton,
spent to do the same kind of activity.
So, it could have made the difference in Michigan—I’m
in Michigan.
It could have made the difference here, in
Wisconsin.
But it is not—it is a drop in the bucket
compared to the kinds of activities that go
on in a political campaign.
We don’t know what else Mueller is going
to show.
We don’t know what kinds of quid pro quo,
if in fact that happened.
I always raise the fact that the Shadow Brokers,
these leaked NSA files that were closely associated
with all this, if that’s shown to be part
of this same operation, that’s a great deal
of damage to the United States.
That said, the trolling—you and I already
said this.
This is stuff the United States engages in
all the time.
It’s considered fair game for intelligence
agencies.
Even stealing hacking tools, fair game for
intelligence agencies.
Hacking political candidates, the United States
does that, as well.
So, I do think we need to ask about what the
appropriate response to this is.
But part of that is understanding precisely
what happened.
And part of it is understanding what the best
response is to prevent it from happening.
I mean, one of the reasons Putin did this
is because of the sanction regime put in place,
because of what he perceives as the same kind
of activity in 2011 and 2012 in elections
in Russia.
So, is more of the same going to—
AMY GOODMAN: He felt that Hillary Clinton
supported protests against him.
MARCY WHEELER: Precisely, and with the same
kind of online activity and the same—I mean,
we call it “democracy promotion,” but
it uses some of the same kind of tactics as
these troll farms used on us.
And, you know, the more important question
is: Is the issue keeping America safe and
free from foreign intervention, or is it needing
to retaliate against Putin?
And, you know, that may not be a binary choice.
But, you know, it seems like this was a pretty
remarkable attempt to interfere with the United
States.
The question is: What is the best response
the United States can make, going forward,
to prevent it from happening in the future?
Is ratcheting up the pressure the thing to
do, or is making ourselves resilient, is fixing
our own politics?
Which is really what Russia did, is they exploited
both divisions within our own country, but
also how easy it is to get money into our
own politics or to have outsiders interfere
in our own politics.
We’ll be better off fixing that, fixing
our politics, rather than ratcheting up again
against Russia.
And, I mean, I hope that we have a real debate
about this, going forward, but people should
not dismiss Glenn’s concerns out of hand.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Marcy, could you give
us a quick take on this latest report from
CNN, that Mueller is now looking into Trump’s
son-in-law Jared Kushner and possible negotiations
he had with foreign entities about business
deals for his company during the transition
period?
Is this going somewhat far afield from Mueller’s
mandate?
MARCY WHEELER: I don’t think so, and here’s
why.
I said that the main charge in the Internet
Research Agency was conspiracy to defraud
the United States by basically pretending
to be something you’re not, by pretending
to be engaged in good-faith politics when
you weren’t.
That’s actually the same charge that Paul
Manafort and Rick Gates are facing.
They are pretending, according to Mueller,
to be engaged in lobbying for American interests,
when in fact they were representing the interests
of pro-Russian Ukrainian political party.
So, exact parallel there.
The idea is that Paul Manafort was engaging
in politics and pretending to be interested
in the United States’ best interest, but
in fact doing the bidding of pro-Russian money.
What you, I think—the reason why Kushner’s
business deals are important, we’ve talked—and
in the intro, this wasn’t the only example
of—there’s the Don Jr.
We’ve talked about how poorly Trump’s
people have separated his business interests
from the interests of the country.
The same is even more true for Jared Kushner,
whose family business is basically bankrupt.
And over and over again, he’s been shown
to be in negotiations with entities, including
Russians, but also Chinese and Middle Eastern.
So, you know, he’ll go in and say, “OK,
we’ll talk about this grand peace plan,”
which is not about peace at all, “but, oh,
by the way, can you bail out our 666 Park
Avenue building, which is badly underwater?”
And I think Mueller could make the same argument
he’s made with the IRA indictment and the
Manafort indictment, and say that Jared Kushner
is pretending to be serving America’s foreign
policy interests, but in fact he is just doing
his own bidding.
He’s just trying to bail out his own company.
So I wouldn’t be surprised if he’s moving
towards a very similar indictment on conspiracy
to defraud the United States, having to do
with his conflicts of interest.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, interesting that
Kushner also hasn’t managed to get top security
clearance, when he’s a senior adviser to
President Trump, as Porter didn’t because
he beat his wives, etc.
And then you’ve got Donald Jr. now in India
promoting Trump businesses, as, of course,
Donald Trump is the president of the United
States.
And he’s standing with the prime minister
of India as he does this, promoting the Trump
brand, Marcy.
MARCY WHEELER: Exactly.
I mean, if Trump and his son and his son-in-law
are pretending to be doing the business of
the United States but are instead just trying
to enrich themselves, again, I don’t think
it’s a—you know, we’ve talked about
the Emoluments Clause and how you go after
the Trump campaign—the Trump officials for
their egregious conflicts of interest.
And, frankly, it extends into his Cabinet.
But what Mueller seems to be doing, with some
very good appellate lawyers, by the way, is
to be laying out this framework that if you
are pretending to be doing something in the
interest of the United States but are actually
doing something else, serving somebody else’s
bidding, whether it’s Russia, pro-Russian
Ukrainian political party, or whether it’s
your own family business, then they’re going
to go after you for a conspiracy charge.
And I wouldn’t be surprised if these conspiracy
charges all kind of link up at the end, in
this kind of grand moment of—I think that’s
where he’s headed.
AMY GOODMAN: Marcy Wheeler, I want to thank
you for being with us, independent journalist
covering national security and civil liberties
issues for EmptyWheel.net.
We’ll link to your piece, “What Did Mueller
Achieve with the Internet Research Agency
Indictment?”
This is Democracy Now!
When we return, we speak with economist Robert
Reich, former labor secretary under President
Clinton.
He has a new book; it’s called The Common
Good.
Stay with us.
