We spend the hour with Boots Riley, writer
and director of the critically acclaimed film
Sorry to Bother You.
Best known as the lead vocalist of The Coup
and Street Sweeper Social Club, Boots is also
a poet, a screenwriter and a community activist.
Sorry to Bother You is his first film.
It’s a dystopian social satire that follows
one Oakland man’s rise to the upper echelons
of an evil telemarketing company, only to
discover a secret that threatens all of humankind.
Here’s the film’s trailer.
Hey, Cash.
How much longer I got to wait for my money?
God made this land for all of us.
Greedy people like you want to hog it to yourself
and your family and—
Me and my family?
Yeah.
Cassius, I’m your [bleep] uncle.
I just really need a job.
Forty on two.
This is telemarketing.
Stick to the script.
Hello, Mr. Davidson, Cassius Green here.
Sorry to bother—
Let me give you a tip.
You want to make some money here?
Use your white voice.
My white voice.
I’m not talking about Will Smith white.
Like this, young blood: “Hey, Mr. Kramer,
this is Langston from RegalView.”
As always, we’ll be getting that out to
you right away.
You’re doing so good with the voice thing.
Holla!
Holla!
Holla!
Holla!
Holla!
You’re going upstairs, power caller.
They even have their own elevator.
That was the trailer to Sorry to Bother You,
directed by Boots Riley.
Democracy Now!’s Juan González and I recently
sat down with Boots Riley.
I began by asking him to talk about his new
film.
This is an absurdist dark comedy, with magical
realism and science fiction, inspired by the
world of telemarketing.
In it, Lakeith Stanfield plays Cassius Green,
a black telemarketer with self-esteem issues
and existential angst, who discovers a magical
way to make his voice sound like it’s overdubbed
by a white actor.
That white actor is played by David Cross.
Hilarity ensues.
And why telemarketing?
I actually did telemarketing a couple times,
one time in school while I was actually going
to film school and then another time.
After our second album, I had kind of a 24-year-old
midlife crisis, where I decided I had been
an artist too long, and I quit, and me and
some friends created an organization called
the Young Comrades.
And I needed money to do that, and I was good
at sales, so I did telemarketing.
So, you talked about the white voice.
I want to turn to a clip from Sorry to Bother
You.
Cassius Green, played by Lakeith Stanfield,
has just started his job as a telemarketer,
when an older employee, played by none other
than your friend Danny Glover, gives him some
advice.
Hey, young blood, let me give you a tip: Use
your white voice.
Man, I ain’t got no white voice.
Oh, come on.
You know what I mean.
You have a white voice in there.
You can use it.
It’s like being pulled over by the police.
Oh, no.
I just use my regular voice when that happens.
I just say, “Back the [bleep] up off the
car, and don’t nobody get hurt.”
All right, man.
I’m just trying to give you some game.
You want to make some money here?
Then read the script with a white voice.
Well, people say I talk with a white voice
anyway, so why ain’t it helping me out?
Well, you don’t talk white enough.
I’m not talking about Will Smith white.
I’m talking about the real deal.
Like this, young blood: “Hey, Mr. Kramer,
this is Langston from RegalView.
I didn’t catch you at the wrong time, did
I?”
And for people who are listening on the radio,
that was actually Danny Glover who’s voicing
that.
Yeah.
So talk about the white voice and what that
means, Boots.
Well, so, in the film, Danny Glover’s character
Langston—actually, that’s an edited piece
that we just played, but in the full piece
he explains that the white voice doesn’t
really exist.
White people don’t even have it.
They use it, and it’s a performance.
There’s a performance of whiteness that
is all about saying that everything is OK,
you’ve got your bills paid, and that—and,
you know, this kind of smooth and easy thing.
And it’s, at the very least, the idea of
what black folks have to do in order to hide
their identity sometime over the phone or
to say that they’re safe.
It’s like the opposite of the racist black
tropes that are out there, which are there,
that they say, “OK, black folks and people
of color are savage, or somehow their culture
is insufficient, and that’s why they’re
poor.”
And these racist black tropes, these racist
tropes of people of color, have a utility,
because we live in a system that necessitates
poverty.
It must have a certain number of unemployed
people to exist.
And there’s an—but the explanation is
that it’s nothing to do the economic system,
it’s everything to do with poor people,
and these racist tropes come.
So the white voice is almost a reaction to
that.
And, anyway, so—and there’s all sorts
of levels in there, too.
What’s also left out is, just so people
know, the full-line is “I’m not talking
about Will Smith white.
That’s not white.
That’s just proper.”
And then, as Cassius masters the white voice,
he rockets up the chain to success, and then
the conflict begins with his girlfriend.
I don’t know.
There’s conflict all through the movie.
I don’t know when it begins.
Yeah.
But, yeah.
Yeah, it’s—yeah, yeah, definitely.
Tessa Thompson plays—her name is Detroit.
Her character’s name is Detroit, who’s
an artist in the Bay Area that is also—that
is trying to use her art to expose a lot of
the injustices.
And kind of what this film deals with is,
you know, her character is probably the closest
to me, you know, and deals with the questions
of what art can actually do, if anything.
So, expand on that.
And Tessa Thompson, her job in life is dancing
with signs in front of stores.
Well, I don’t think—I don’t think her
character would say that’s her job in life.
That’s how she gets some money to pay the
bills.
But yeah, she’s a sign twirler.
And she—for money.
But she’s a gallery artist and also part
of a—I don’t know—a agitprop arts group
that does things somewhat clandestinely.
And, yeah, I think her character—well, I
know—her character is always—her character
and the character played by Steven Yeun have
somewhat of a conflict and an alliance, because
Steven Yeun plays a union organizer.
And that goes to the issue of what’s happening,
where they work, at RegalView.
I want to turn back to the film, Sorry to
Bother You, when Cassius Green is promoted
to be a power caller at the telemarketing
company where he works in Oakland.
Well, things take a dark turn.
I got promoted.
I’m a power caller!
What do they sell?
They’re not selling it.
We’re selling.
No, there’s no amount of money that’d
make me do that.
Here’s the starting salary.
And I’m going to have to get me some new
suits!
It is morally emaciated.
I can’t ride with you.
I’m doing something I’m really good at.
Cash, I’m going to make you a proposal.
I can see that you’d want to say no, but
I wouldn’t do that before you see what I’m
offering.
Cash, you are awesome.
Sorry to Bother You.
That’s part of the trailer.
Boots Riley, so, he is pushed upstairs as
the people at RegalView, the evil telemarketing
firm, are starting to organize.
You have this big Norma Rae moment in the
film.
But talk about that.
And we’re talking about this as, well, just
today, Amazon Prime Day, there are people
who are protesting—where?—in Poland and
Spain and Germany, to protest working conditions
at Amazon workplaces.
And am I my wrong to say that the protests
are taking the place of—taking the form
of work stoppages?
Mm-hmm.
And I think that’s something that’s put
forward in my film as a tool that we need
to use.
I believe that since the beginning of the
New Left, progressives and radicals have turned
more to spectacle and gone away from actually
organizing at the actual point of contradiction
in capitalism, which is the exploitation of
labor, which is also where the working class
has its power.
And we’ve gone in favor of demonstrations,
that don’t necessarily have teeth, but they
show where our head is at.
And I feel like we have to put—give these
demonstrations more teeth, by being able to
affect the bottom line and say, you know—and
say, “You can make no money today, or you
can make less money and give us what we want.”
If you could talk about the company—you
have RegalView.
This is the evil telemarketer.
And then you’ve got Worry Free.
Talk about Worry Free, and then go on to talk
about labor struggles.
It’s interesting, because—so, in the film,
there’s a company called Worry Free that
guarantees you housing and employment for
life.
And they house their workers in the same places—one
way they save money is they house their workers
in the same places that they produce whatever
they produce.
And so—and it’s a lifetime contract.
So, in all extents and purposes, it’s slavery.
But what’s weird is, I don’t know if that
company is illegal right now.
It would be an interesting research topic
to see if the company Worry Free that’s
in Sorry to Bother You is actually legal.
However, what I’m a little scared of is
that then somebody will try it.
You know?
And what’s the big thing you’re hoping
folks will take away from your movie, in terms
of some of this issue of capitalism and the
way—
Yeah, I think—
—it continues to have a hold on us?
I think what I’m—OK, one, there are a
lot of things that I want people to take away
from this movie.
I tried to do something that, in my mind,
was more akin to literature, where there is—there
are a lot of ideas.
Like, I mean, if you take any piece of literature
that you love, and you say, “What’s the
one thing about it?” you’d be lying by,
you know, omission.
Right, right.
You know.
And so, I wanted that to feel like that, like,
you know, there are all these things.
But I would say overarching is, I wanted there
to be a sense of optimism, that although things
are messed up and all these things are going
on, if there’s a fight with a clear way
to win, if there’s a fight going on, then
that’s the optimism, the hope, right there.
So, I don’t want to give it away too much
of what happens in the movie, but, you know,
it is a strange odyssey.
Boots Riley, director of Sorry to Bother You.
We’ll be back with him in a minute.
[break]
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
We return now to the hip-hop artist and activist
Boots Riley, who has just directed his first
film, Sorry to Bother You.
You know, this is a searing anti-capitalist
film.
One of the most striking characters is Armie
Hammer, who is the—he plays a kind of Elon
Musk or Jeff Bezos character, a mastermind
behind Worry Free, that profits off of slave
labor.
Talk about his character, how you chose Armie
Hammer—comes from the Arm & Hammer family.
Yeah.
His name is Armand Hammer.
Let’s put it like this: Armie Hammer is
a wonderful person, and he gave so much to
making this film happen.
I mean, even—I mean, let’s talk—before
we talk about his skill level and mastery
of his craft, I mean, he was on a tour for
Pixar because he’s the voice in one of the
Cars movies.
And he was—he wanted to go over the lines
with Lakeith, and he made Pixar fly him from
London, where they were promoting the movie,
on his day off, flew him from London for a
day to Oakland and then back, just to make—you
know, because he wanted to give the film his
all.
And I chose him because Armie Hammer is such
a lovable dude, that—and it really represents
where the idea of capitalism is right now.
The new capitalism is “There is no capitalism
here.
What are you talking about?”
You know, it’s like “This is—this is
not a workplace, this is a bean bag room.
And I’m not your boss, I’m your friend
who tells you what to do.”
And so, as opposed to the oil baron idea,
you know, these are the cool people that everyone
loves and, you know—
The sharing economy.
Yeah.
And so, Armie was perfect for that.
And also, he’s, you know, very into research.
And I feel like he really nailed this character
and gave it a psychosis that is very, very
friendly to the media, you know.
You retweeted an Onion piece, “Jeff Bezos
Tables Latest Breakthrough Cost-Cutting Idea
After Realizing It’s Just Slaves.”
Yeah.
And they write, “SEATTLE—Deciding at the
last minute to hold off due to ethical concerns,
Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos reportedly
set aside his latest cost-cutting initiative
Wednesday after realizing it was actually
human slavery.
'On the surface, it seemed plausible—owning
our employees' bodies, implementing a mandatory
18-hour workday, restricting their movements,
and not compensating them with anything besides
minimal food and shelter—but then it started
to sound really familiar in a bad way,’
said Bezos, who acknowledged his fears were
confirmed when Amazon’s general counsel
kept reporting back that such labor arrangements
had been illegal throughout the United States
since 1865.”
Now, again, that’s an Onion piece, folks—
Yeah.
—for people who don’t know the satirical
newspaper.
It’s not true, meaning.
Yeah, yeah.
And I—yeah, I think—and although the way
they lay it out there is illegal, there are
so many things—so, the Worry Free in our
piece, the real exaggeration is just that
it’s happening in the U.S. as opposed to
where it already is happening, in other countries,
and that U.S. corporations are knowingly involved
in the production that comes out of this kind
of labor.
I mean, it’s not exactly what’s happening,
but it’s pretty close.
You know, it’s interesting, like a lot of
people talk about labor conditions in China,
and—but which were spurred on by the U.S.
As a matter of fact, what the students were
fighting for in Tiananmen Square was the right
to become management at these companies—the
idea that they should let capitalism in more,
so they could become the management at these
companies right there.
So, when we talk about all the symbols of
fighting for our style of democracy, it ends
up with Worry Free-like work centers.
So…
Well, you know, I had my students at Rutgers
University doing investigations of Amazon,
and one of the things they—Amazon, at one
point, was requiring their employees to line
up and be searched on the way out.
And, of course, they operate in these huge
warehouses, so that it would take the workers
sometimes half an hour to get out of work,
while they waited on line to be searched on
the way out the door.
Wow.
They went to court, and the Supreme Court
upheld, in a decision, that—because the
workers wanted to be paid.
They said, “If you’re requiring us to
wait on line to be searched on the way out,
pay us for that time.”
Supreme Court said no, that you’re not required
to pay an employee once they’re off, even
if it’s a requirement to search them.
So, I mean, you’ve got this situation of
this—it is virtual slavery in a lot of these
huge warehouses, that people never see, because
we just get our Amazon Prime, and we don’t
care how it comes to us, unless we open up
what’s going on in a lot of these places.
Wow.
Yeah, I think—I guess this is what the film
kind of addresses, is that we might know something,
like we’ll hear that piece of information.
But we hear that piece of information—what
can we do with it?
Right?
And we are like, “OK, that’s something
I can’t do anything about.”
And we file it away.
And it’s not apathy.
You know, it’s the fact that we don’t
have the movements that are able to—we don’t
have them big enough yet, the movements that
are able to address this, movements that are
actually confronting capital by withholding
labor.
Those are the things that we need.
And for too long, the left has gone away from
class struggle.
Right?
We’ve gone away from class struggle in favor
of spectacle, and hidden in the arts and academia.
So, a lot of our biggest fights are sometimes
about not what we’re saying, but how we’re
saying it.
And I agree how we’re saying things are
important.
It means, though, that we have to look at
how the working class is talking and what
they really mean, as opposed to just trying
to adjust how people are talking, and making
a movement around things that we can do something
about, because then people have a real choice
of what they want to get involved in.
You know, it’s not that people don’t hear
that story, for instance, and think it’s
ridiculous, but, even me, I’m sitting here
like, “OK, how do I—is this something
I can do?
Let me move on from this.
Like, what”—you know, throwing up my hands.
And so, I think that it’s—people are looking
for new ways to do things.
And I think that it’s time for us to have
new—and I’ve been on this show saying
this before, so—new, radical, militant,
in the sense that they keep out scabs, radical
and militant in the sense that they break
the existing labor laws, and have these new,
radical and militant labor movements.
And, you know, that doesn’t necessarily
mean the existing unions, but if they want
to come along and up the ante, that’s great,
but there’s only 7 percent of—something
like 7 percent of the U.S. workforce is unionized.
And some of that has to do with some of the
laws that have been enacted since the '40s,
and also some of the anti-communist stuff.
But, you know, the Taft-Hartley laws make
it so you can't do solidarity strikes.
And the reason why they make it so you can’t
do solidarity strikes is because they’re
effective.
And so, we need a labor movement that’s
going to break those laws, because, as we
see, the laws that are existing are going
to make the current ways of organizing unions
much harder.
So, you know—and this is almost also a call
out to folks that consider theirself radicals,
like we’re willing to go to jail for statements
sometimes, for demonstrations, and which is
good, but maybe if we were part of leading
this kind of new radical labor movement, we’d
go to jail for breaking the laws that bring
people hikes in wages, that then also make
for a movement that could handle other social
justice issues with strikes.
How does Sorry to Bother You fit into that
picture of organizing?
I mean, it must be very interesting for you,
as a well-known anti-capitalist artist and
organizer, to now—
Communist.
Communist Marxist, to—
I don’t know.
Marx, didn’t he say something like, “I,
myself, am not a Marxist”?
So, no, but yes.
To now you have Sorry to Bother You, which
is, you know, this breakout film, to navigate
this world of a film that is a work of art,
a political statement, but also a—almost
a consumer product.
And you must be negotiating nonstop, dealing
with this very successful film in a capitalist
world.
Yeah.
I mean, it’s never been my mission to create
a separate, safer capitalist model, because
that’s what it would be doing, you know,
is like “Let’s create this other distribution
network,” whatever, which, if you’re operating
under capitalism, ends up being just a baby
capitalist model that is maybe not as effective
as the ones that exist.
So, it is—I mean, I wasn’t there, but
I believe how even The Communist Manifesto
got out was that the books were distributed,
that these books are sold.
So, even Marx sold books, right?
So, and it wasn’t because he was like, “I
need to create something inside of capitalism
that shows this model.”
I mean we’ve been seeing that for a long
time.
I mean, the U.S. has had socialist communes
since the 1800s.
And as artists, too, we give ourselves that
out, like, “I’m creating a model, you
know, that other people can emulate.”
And it’s really just a cop-out, because
it’s harder to organize people and get them
to get involved in a movement.
It’s easier to find other people that already
agree with you, and then do that thing.
And—
I wanted to ask you, in terms of both spectacle
and also the movement figuring out ways to
move forward—a lot of the folks who have
been involved in activist movement over the
years, then ended up going into, especially
after the Bernie Sanders phenomenon, electoral
politics.
We’re seeing many more, quote, “progressives”
or radicals getting elected into office.
What do you think about that route as a means
of being able to effect social change?
Well, here’s what I think.
I think, inarguably, the two biggest reforms
under capitalism in the 20th century might
be the New Deal and the civil rights bill,
right?
And how did we get either of them?
Was it by electing the right person?
Or was it by having a movement that was able
to disrupt?
And let me be very clear about what I mean
by “disrupt.”
In the '20s and ’30s in the United States,
it's been said that there were a million card-carrying
communists.
And at the same time, we had places like Alabama,
Utah, Montana, Oklahoma, where there were,
for instance, mining strikes, where—that
were going on.
And in places like Alabama, there were even
like conflicts, armed conflicts, with the
miners and private security.
In the Midwest, at that same—during that
same era, you had people occupying and shutting
down factories.
On the West Coast, during that same era, you
had the longshoremen creating their union,
and of a bunch of workers that were thought
of as like lower skill than we think of fast-food
workers right now, who fought against, you
know, militias, state militias, in order to
create their union.
And that’s happening at the same time.
During that same time, somewhat unrelated—I
mean, pretty unrelated—there was a thing
called the Bonus March, where World War I
veterans marched on the White House for their
bonus checks, in large numbers, and many thought
to be carrying arms.
Revolutions happening around the world.
In that milieu is where we got the New Deal.
It wasn’t because the radicals and progressives
band together and were like, “We need to
be putting all our energy into electing FDR.”
They made that happen.
Now, so, that’s not to say don’t get somebody
in office.
But what that does do, though, when you’re
doing that, it’s a question of where are
we putting our resources, where are we putting
our time, where we put—you know, what happens
is movements get subverted, because, right
now, there’s only so much time and energy,
and the first people to act are going to be
the ones that we need.
And if everybody’s putting their time into
the electoral side, we’re going to get caught
in this loop, where you get an elected official
in there, and they’re not able to do much,
because there’s not the movement to do things.
You need—you need to be—we need to get
to the level where we can shut down industry,
and that we can go straight to the puppet
masters.
Now, if we have that going on and somebody
wants to get in office that can better aid
those movements, but even the—any progressive
or candidate out there will tell you that
if you don’t have a movement going on, there’s
not a lot they could do, you know?
I mean, even on a low level like Oakland politics,
you had like Dellums, Ron Dellums, get elected
mayor.
Great dude.
I don’t—didn’t really do much at all.
And what he kept saying was, “I can’t
do anything if there’s not a movement that
allows it to happen.”
And so, I think that electoral politics is
the easy way out.
And I think it’s because—and I think it’s
part of—I think it’s part of the sidetracking
that we’ve been having by not—the left
has not been willing to engage in class struggle
for a long time, and we’ve left it up to
liberals.
We’ve left union organizing up to liberals.
And we’ve made—not just union organizers,
but we’ve left—we’ve made our movements
devoid of the analysis that says that—that
shows where the power point in capitalism
for us is.
And so, for me, it’s not a matter of—it’s
not a matter of can that work.
Maybe it could, but it’s not going to work
if we don’t have a real movement.
And it’s going to get us sucked into the
war of inches.
I mean, think about it like this.
Really, you know, you end up talking about
getting folks to vote.
And right now, because of everything that
we’ve gotten into, we get focused on the
Trump era, and we’ve got the Democrats going
way to the right, because of figuring out
how do we get Trump out.
So people are like supporting the CIA, supporting
the FBI, and doing it fervently.
Right?
So, where does—and they’re like, “Well,
that’s just because we need to get Trump
out.”
But then, where does that leave you afterward?
And it’s just—it’s part of this game.
It’s part of this thing.
I mean, where we are with immigration—I
mean, immigration rights activists were complaining
way before Trump was in about the policies
that the Obama administration put in.
But many—
They called him the “deporter-in-chief.”
Yeah.
He deported millions and millions and millions
or people.
And so, where we are with Trump is part of
just that—it’s another few steps on the
staircase that has been being built the whole
time by playing this game of inches.
I think that things are so drastic right now
that we got to—you know, we got to reset.
And, you know—and it’s only since the
'60s that, you know, radicals have been thinking
about like elections as the way.
And it's very connected, you know, with the
New Left stopping organizing labor and focusing
on students.
All the sudden in the '60s, you heard the
students are the revolution.
It was not historically accurate.
It's not based on any other revolutions, except
for maybe there was, at the same time, the
Cultural Revolution in China.
But other than that, wasn’t historically
accurate.
And it was a focus on students and spectacle
that has led—and has led to like people
not knowing what to do and basically saying,
“Well, all I’m going to do is electoral
politics.”
Boots Riley, director of Sorry to Bother You.
We’ll be back with him in a minute.
[break]
This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González, as
we return to the hip-hop artist, activist
Boots Riley, who has just directed his first
film, Sorry to Bother You.
Now, you set the film in Oakland, obviously,
where you grew up in.
And the importance of Oakland?
Because it’s always been a hotbed of radical
politics and radical organizing.
How you featured the city in the film?
You know, I think that’s just a great byproduct
of wanting to make a good film.
You know, I come from Oakland, so I’m going
to write about what I know.
And I believe my ways of storytelling or making
art have a lot to do with the details that
make people up, and those are the details
that surround us.
And then I also just happen to—you know,
living in a place, you have great ideas of
what you want to shoot.
I also know so many people in Oakland and
the Bay Area, that we could get some of the
locations for free.
So, it’s just a—all of my art has to do
with where I am, and so—which is one reason
like I never moved to L.A. or New York, because
it’s just part of what makes me.
Boots, we’ve been doing a lot this year
on the 50th anniversary of all the various
events of 1968, like Juan deeply involved
with the Columbia student strike in April
of 1968.
So, you have Danny Glover.
He is teaching young blood a few things at
the telemarketing firm—
Yeah.
—another telemarketer in your film.
But he was one of those 50 years ago protesting
at San Francisco State, as was your dad.
Yeah, yeah.
That’s where they—
Talk about that history.
So, Danny Glover and my father, Walter Riley,
met at San Francisco State, agitating and
organizing the San Francisco—being organizers
of the San Francisco State strike—not the
organizers, but some of them.
And so, that strike created the first ethnic
studies program, now school, in the United
States.
