AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, as we
continue our look at how Oxfam has been hit
with dozens more misconduct allegations, involving
a slew of countries in the days since The
Times of London revealed Oxfam tried to cover
up sex crimes by senior aid workers in Haiti
after the devastating 2010 earthquake.
Joining us from London is Sean O’Neill,
chief reporter at The Times newspaper in London,
which broke the story of Oxfam and Save the
Children.
In Miami, Florida, we’re joined by Edwidge
Danticat, Haitian-American novelist.
And here in New York, Taina Bien-Aimé is
with us, who is executive director of the
Coalition Against Trafficking in Women.
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Edwidge Danticat, if you could explain—if
you can respond to this explosive story that
has come out, that you may have known some
details of or rumors of, stories of, for years?
I don’t know.
EDWIDGE DANTICAT: I wish I could say that
it was shocking.
I think there is a way that these large organizations
work in Haiti in which they bypass the state
completely or consider the state insignificant.
It was even said by the folks at Oxfam that
they didn’t report these violations because
they thought the state was too consumed with
the earthquake, as if there was nothing else
to do.
So, in the U.N., MINUSTAH has been accused
of similar things.
And women have said that they have literally
grabbed them off the street and raped them,
boys and girls.
And, you know, the U.N., with MINUSTAH, was
running a sex ring with children.
So—
AMY GOODMAN: Explain what you mean by MINUSTAH,
for people who don’t know.
EDWIDGE DANTICAT: Well, MINUSTAH is the U.N.,
quote-unquote, “peacekeeping” force that
has been in Haiti the last decade.
And they were also accused of running sex
rings and raping young women, who were then
left with no options.
Like, they would go and complain, and they
would remove the peacekeeper and send them
back home, which seems to be the similar pattern
with what happened with this gentleman.
He was, you know, gently moved to another
post, where he might have continued carrying
on these same things.
I think that’s what happens when you have
an extremely vulnerable population, where
these large NGOs consider themselves, in some
ways, a state on their own.
So the most vulnerable women and girls will
be—are considered prey to them, and they’ll
do with them what they want for a piece of
food, which is—which, as Mr. O’Neill portrayed
so clearly, in what was happening with Oxfam.
And possibly, Oxfam is—I would be surprised
if they were the only ones, because you have
impunity, total impunity.
People are not punished.
When they resist, they apologize, and they
move on.
And they leave wrecked and destroyed lives
behind them.
AMY GOODMAN: I mean, we’re talking about
a time, 2010, in Haiti, the earthquake, where
hundreds of thousands of people died.
We’re talking about a crushed population,
Edwidge.
EDWIDGE DANTICAT: And extremely—you have
extremely vulnerable children, who, in some
cases, have lost their parents.
You have families separated.
You have people really in dire need and who
are extremely vulnerable.
And even in ordinary times, it would be extremely
wrong to take advantage of that situation.
But at that moment, where people are still
trying to find their loved ones, bury their
dead, find food and water, to decide that
at that moment you want to traumatize and
assault people and have orgies, while people
are dying, it’s just unconscionable.
And the worst thing is that they will not
be punished.
It will—you know, there will be this outrage
there is this moment, but it will carry on.
And we hope that this is a turning point,
perhaps, for all these other organizations,
that might still be doing this, and that maybe
this is a #MeToo moment, as we’re living
in this country, for aid workers who do this
kind of thing, not just in Haiti, but all
over the vulnerable world, where they’re
are supposed to go and help.
AMY GOODMAN: Reporter Sean O’Neill, can
you explain what’s at stake here, how Oxfam
gets its funding?
I mean, over—I think around 7,000 people
have stopped their donations.
But what about countries?
SEAN O’NEILL: I think Oxfam gets something
in the region of 300 million pounds a year
from various governments and public authorities.
So, we’re talking about the British government.
We’re talking about U.S. aid.
We’re talking about United Nations funding.
We’re talking about European Union funding
and other governments.
The public donates about 90 million pounds
a year.
It makes about 100 million pounds a year from
its trading division.
There is an Oxfam shop, a charity shop, on
virtually every High Street in Britain.
You know, it’s a massive organization, with
a huge amount of revenue, operating in dozens
and dozens of countries around the world.
So, you know, its global reputation is absolutely
on the line here.
There’s an awful lot at stake.
And that’s why it’s scrambling to—you
know, I lost count yesterday, watching that
hearing in Parliament, of the number of times
people from Oxfam apologized.
It was one apology after another after another
after another.
They’ve completely changed their tone from
a week before, when they were saying, “We
did nothing wrong.
You know, we dealt with these men, and we
were completely transparent.”
But they’re under massive pressure here,
especially from the British government.
The international development minister, Penny
Mordaunt, basically said to them yesterday,
“You have to be held to account.
You have to hold yourselves to account.
I want to see the results of how you change,
or we will not give you any more money.”
And she’s saying that not just to Oxfam,
but to every single charity that the British
government provides funding to.
If you do not demonstrate your ability to
protect the vulnerable, to have proper safeguarding
policies and practices, and to pursue wrongdoers,
not let them swan off into another job—if
you don’t take these steps, you will not
get British government funding.
British government aid will go elsewhere.
AMY GOODMAN: Which is an extremely important
point.
You have—reports have emerged Oxfam rehired
one of the aid workers who was fired for alleged
sexual misconduct in Haiti, just months later.
An Oxfam spokesperson—
SEAN O’NEILL: Rehired by Oxfam America,
I might say.
So you wonder what bit of joined-up thinking
goes on in that organization.
You know, is sacked by Oxfam Great Britain,
rehired by Oxfam America.
What did they say to one another about this
man?
AMY GOODMAN: And then sent off to Ethiopia.
SEAN O’NEILL: Mm-hmm.
That’s correct, yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: So, South African Archbishop
Emeritus Desmond Tutu stepped down as an ambassador
for Oxfam.
The 86-year-old Nobel Peace laureate said
he was deeply disappointed by allegations
of, quote, “immorality and possible criminality
involving humanitarian workers linked to the
charity.”
Last week, British actress Minnie Driver also
quit her position as an ambassador for Oxfam,
writing on her Twitter account, “All I can
tell you about this awful revelation about
Oxfam is that I am devastated.
Devastated for the women who were used by
people sent there to help them, devastated
by the response of an organization that I
have been raising awareness for since I was
9 years old.”
I wanted to bring Taina Bien-Aimé into the
conversation, who is executive director of
the organization Coalition Against Trafficking
in Women.
Your response to these revelations, and what
you think should happen?
TAINA BIEN-AIMÉ: Well, I’d like to echo
Edwidge’s thoughts, that we have known for
decades, we have heard rumors.
We have family in Haiti who tell us that blue
helmets exchange a glass of milk for raping
a child, that international aid workers abuse
their power systematically—not all, but
certainly a large percentage of the leadership.
So this, unfortunately, is not new.
This is something that the United Nations
has been struggling with.
The last three U.N. secretary-generals have
established measures and policies and statements,
hoping that a zero-tolerance culture will
be embedded in—not only among U.N. contractors
and U.N. personnel, but international aid
agencies and blue helmets, etc.
But there is zero interest for zero tolerance
of exploitation of women and girls, of abuse
of power in the most egregious and violent
way, as we’re seeing with the Oxfam situation
in Haiti.
AMY GOODMAN: Do you think they should be defunded?
TAINA BIEN-AIMÉ: No, I don’t think that
they should be defunded.
I think this is an incredible opportunity
to have conversations with Oxfam to ensure
that the policies that they do have in place,
for zero tolerance of purchasing sex, for
zero tolerance of exploitation, that they
are implemented.
We need to see more women in middle management
and upper management.
And also, this is an opportunity for Oxfam
to invest in the women and girls that they
have exploited and brutalized.
I think it’s fantastic that Oxfam managers
are apologizing to the Haitian government,
but they are not the ones who are owed an
apology.
Oxfam owes an apology to the women and girls—and
boys, I’m assuming, as well—who have been
exploited and trafficked and prostituted.
There’s an opportunity to have exit programs
and programs for these people so that they
do have the ability to rebuild their lives
and move toward economic self-sufficiency.
AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to go to the statement
of Oxfam’s executive director.
We did invite her on the show, Oxfam International
Executive Director Winnie Byanyima.
They said she couldn’t join us, but they
sent us a statement, where she said, “From
the bottom of my heart, I’m asking for forgiveness.”
She said, “Of course words are not enough.
I’ve agreed [to] a plan of action with Oxfam’s
board of international directors, which will
see us double the number of people who work
on safeguarding the people we serve.
We’re also asking respected women’s rights
experts to lead an independent commission
which will take a long, hard look at our operations
and tell us what we need to change about our
culture and practices.
And we’re setting up a new database of people
authorized to give references.
Right now I have two utmost priorities for
Oxfam: continuing to provide support to the
millions of vulnerable people we work with
around the world, and learning vital lessons
from our past mistakes to make sure such abuse
and exploitation does not happen again.”
Taina, your response?
TAINA BIEN-AIMÉ: Well, we look forward to
these kind of measures, and I think we have
to welcome.
Again, this is in a #MeToo moment.
Why has this been hidden for seven years from
the public?
We don’t really know the answer to that.
Perhaps Sean O’Neill has an idea, since
he’s the one who spoke closely to the sources,
as to whether it is the environment of holding
its mostly men, obviously, accountable to
the exploitation and violence that they’ve
perpetuated against women and girls, from
sexual harassment to rape.
And so, I would welcome a conversation with
Oxfam to help them develop gender-sensitive
policies and ensuring that this doesn’t
happen again.
AMY GOODMAN: Edwidge Danticat, I mean, you
have Haiti, ground zero for just devastation—over
300,000 people died in the earthquake alone.
You had organizations like the Red Cross,
that raised almost a half a billion dollars
for Haiti—what was it?—ending up building
six permanent homes?
You have the U.N. forces—you’re talking
about sexual abuse—the issue of cholera,
bringing cholera, even if obviously not intentionally,
to Haiti, that killed how many people?
How do you hold these international organizations
accountable?
EDWIDGE DANTICAT: Well, I think, in some ways,
these sexual assaults that we hear about,
whether through this scandal and through what
the United Nations forces have done in Haiti,
they’re almost a metaphor for the rape of
Haiti, which continues through these organizations.
And I think the Red Cross, on another scale,
is a manifestation of that, that all this
money was raised on behalf of Haiti after
this moment.
That’s another kind of violation.
And apologies are fantastic, and I’m glad
that there’s been so many, that Oxfam, for
example, has gone from denial, as Mr. O’Neill
reported, to some acceptance and the stream
of apologies.
But we also need some action.
And the impunity has to stop.
The fact that people—these organizations
feel like they can come to Haiti and do everything
they want, anything they want, to anybody
they want, to the most vulnerable of the population,
that needs to stop.
And that won’t stop until people are held
accountable for what they do.
I think the U.N. was a terrible model in terms
of all their actions.
And they also—you know, there was an apology
from them, as well.
But they didn’t follow up, in ways that
were concrete, about all the people, like
nearly a million people, who were affected
by the cholera.
Ten thousand people died.
And an apology is not going to do anything
for those people.
So, the apologies are fine, but I think the
impunity has to stop.
The fact that these people feel like they
can go to Haiti, because it is Haiti, and
do whatever they want, that needs to stop.
AMY GOODMAN: Al Jazeera reports António Guterres,
the former [sic] U.N. secretary-general, confirmed
there’s been a total of 145 cases of sexual
assault and abuse across all U.N. peace missions
in 2016, up from 99 reported cases in 2015.
The countries with the highest number of reported
allegations include Haiti, Central African
Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, South
Sudan.
Legal battles against the U.N. mission from
within Haiti and globally face a legal catch:
Peacekeepers are given immunity to any criminal
liability in the countries they serve.
Edwidge?
EDWIDGE DANTICAT: Well, that’s the—you
know, that’s at the core of the problem,
because you have people who are already extremely
poor, who are vulnerable within the society
that they are, and I guess there’s a sort
of a predatorial attitude towards them, because
people know that nothing will happen to them.
And even this gentleman, he was moved to another
post to continue his work.
But what about the people, you know, whose
lives he affected?
They didn’t even mention it to the state.
You know, nobody in Haiti knew.
I’m happy to see that the government has
come out very forcefully about that, and maybe,
hopefully, that will lead to some of the actions
that the—that one of the heads of Oxfam
mentioned that.
But it will also, I hope, lead to these other
organizations really having a deep look within
their structures and how they work and to—so
that the most vulnerable people can be protected,
because they often have no recourse.
And I have a sense that, even in Mr. O’Neill’s
report, it’s a very small group of people
that were able to speak out.
There are people who will be too fearful to
speak out, and their stories will never be
told.
And we also have to think about these people
and the future encounters that the vulnerable
population, the women and girls, will have
with others who come along, after the Oxfams
and the others.
AMY GOODMAN: Taina Bien-Aimé, you look at
these issues across the world.
You deal with the exploitation of sex trafficking
in women and girls, and so you see these countries,
the most vulnerable countries.
What are you demanding right now?
TAINA BIEN-AIMÉ: Well, I think, like everyone
else, we are calling for an end to impunity.
But we’re also calling for a deep look into
our culture of acceptance of prostitution,
because if you look at what—the reaction
of social media, a lot of people are saying,
“It’s Haiti, for God’s sakes.
How else are they going to eat?”
And that is the crux of the question.
And that is also a culture that Oxfam and
the U.N. need to examine.
Sexual harassment within those organizations
is rampant, so they also need to clean house.
There is the culture of male sexual access
to women.
And just the way the media is portraying these
stories of exploitation and rape and sexual
exploitation, it really is as to whether they
were paid or not, or whether they were under
age or not.
There are no stories about these women and
girls, about how their lives are devastated,
whether they’re still alive or not, how
are they surviving.
And I think we need to change the conversation
around the culture of impunity and the culture
of male sexual access to women’s bodies.
AMY GOODMAN: And, Sean O’Neill, you talk
about Save the Children, 30 people just fired
over this issue, as well?
SEAN O’NEILL: Yeah, I think 19 people fired
over sexual harassment cases, and that seems
to be in the Save the Children workforce,
and another 11 fired in the 120 countries
they work in over child protection issues.
So, I think this problem probably cuts across
the entire sector.
One of the things that shocked me last week
was we did have one major charity come out
and say, “We did not—we have no issues.
No cases have been reported to us of sexual
misconduct.”
And I just thought, “Well, you’re not
looking for them.
You’re not proactively looking for these
cases, if you think you haven’t got any,
because every workplace has these problems.”
And what we’ve seen and what everybody in
the aid sector knows, or seems to know, when
you research this, is that sexual exploitation
happens especially in emergency zones, in
disaster zones, where civil society has collapsed.
And charities need to be aware of that.
I find it—can I just say, that the statement
from Oxfam, saying, “We’re drawing up
a plan of action, and we’re going to do
X, Y and Z,” I kind of think, “Well, look,
you have known, in Oxfam, that you had a massive
problem since 2011.
Why didn’t you have a plan of action already?
Why is it that not implemented?
And why is there not a joined-up mechanism
across the aid sector, where every charity—and,
you know, there are maybe 10 or 12 massive
charities dominating this field—why don’t
they have a register of who has worked for
them, have they had issues?
Why can’t they cross-check that and find
out if somebody is safe to work for them in
a vulnerable position with vulnerable people?”
You know, some of these reforms should have
been put in place years ago, because everybody
in this sector seems to know that the problem
was there.
AMY GOODMAN: And, of course, the issue of
criminal prosecutions is another one.
Well, we’ll continue to follow this story.
I want to thank Sean O’Neill, chief reporter
at The Times of London.
We’ll link to your pieces; Edwidge Danticat,
thank you for joining us from Miami, the great
Haitian-American writer, and Taina Bien-Aimé,
head of the Coalition Against Trafficking
in Women.
This is Democracy Now!
Back in a minute.
