AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, as we turn now to an update
on the movement to impeach President Donald
Trump.
In November, a half-dozen Democrats introduced
articles of impeachment against Trump, accusing
him of obstruction of justice and other offenses.
Co-sponsors include Democratic Representatives
Steve Cohen, Luis Gutiérrez, Al Green, Marcia
Fudge, Adriano Espaillat and John Yarmuth.
Well, on Thursday, another congressmember
endorsed articles of impeachment.
This time it was one of the 12 House Democrats
representing a district won by Trump in 2016:
Democratic Congressmember Carol Shea-Porter
of New Hampshire.
She said in a statement Thursday, “Many
Members of Congress, including myself, agree
with Republican Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman Bob Corker that President Trump poses
a dangerous threat to national security and
the future of our democracy.
… I believe it is past time for Members
of Congress to put country before party and
bring these discussions out into the open,”
Shea-Porter said.
Until now, other Democrats who have endorsed
Trump’s impeachment have hailed from safe
blue districts.
Porter plans to retire at the end of her term.
This comes as the House rejected an effort
last week by Congressmember Al Green of Houston
to move forward with articles of impeachment,
even as some 58 Democrats voted in support
of the resolution—nearly a third of the
caucus.
Meanwhile, a petition for impeachment launched
in October by Democratic donor Tom Steyer
now has more than three-and-a-half million
supporters, and at least 17 communities around
the country are on record calling for impeachment
proceedings against Donald Trump.
Well, earlier this month, Democracy Now!
spoke to constitutional attorney John Bonifaz,
co-founder and director of Free Speech for
People.
I started by asking him about the movement
to impeach Trump.
JOHN BONIFAZ: Well, to be clear, what we’re
doing here with this impeachment campaign
that we launched with RootsAction on the day
of the inauguration, because the president
had refused to divest from his business holdings
all across the world in defiance of the anti-corruption
provisions of the Constitution—what we’re
doing, Amy, is designed to defend our Constitution
and our democracy.
This is not about being dissatisfied about
certain policies of the president.
This is about the Constitution and the basic
fundamental principle in this country that
no one is above the law, not even the president
of the United States.
And he walked into the Oval Office that day
already defying the rule of law, already refusing
to comply with those two anti-corruption provisions
of the Constitution.
AMY GOODMAN: Explain exactly what those two
anti-corruption articles of the Constitution
are and what he refused to do with his businesses.
JOHN BONIFAZ: So those two anti-corruption
provisions are the Foreign Emoluments Clause
and the Domestic Emoluments Clause.
The Foreign Emoluments Clause makes clear
that the president shall not receive, nor
any other federal elected official shall not
receive, any payments or financial benefits
of any kind from any foreign governments.
The Domestic Emoluments Clause applies only
to the president and says he shall not receive
any financial benefits or payments of any
kind from the federal government or the state
government other than his federal salary.
This is a president who has 111-plus business
interests all over the world, many of which
involve illegal foreign benefits, foreign
government benefits, to him personally, through
his company, the Trump Organization, as well
as having properties all over the United States
that involve state government benefits and
the federal government, through the leasing
of the Post Office Square in Washington, D.C.,
that is now the place where the Trump International
Hotel resides.
So, what we’re dealing here with is a president
who knew, prior to taking the Oval Office,
warned by constitutional scholars, that he
needed to divest from his business interests
in order to comply with those anti-corruption
provisions.
He refused to, and he is engaged in treating
the Oval Office as a profit-making enterprise
at the public expense.
AMY GOODMAN: How have things changed since
January, when Donald Trump became president?
JOHN BONIFAZ: I think what has happened is
we’ve seen a growing list of impeachable
offenses that require an impeachment investigation
in the U.S. Congress parallel to the Mueller
investigation.
This is not a question of having to wait and
see whether or not the federal criminal investigation
that’s proceeding turns up violations of
federal criminal law by the president or any
of his associates.
That’s a separate question.
The question here are crimes against the state.
That is what impeachment is about—abuse
of power, abuse of public trust, and not only
through the violations of the anti-corruption
provisions.
There is now, of course, evidence of obstruction
of justice.
There’s evidence of potential conspiracy
with the Russian government to interfere with
the 2016 elections and violate federal campaign
finance laws, among others.
There is now evidence of abuse of the pardon
power in the pardoning of former Maricopa
County Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio.
There’s recklessly threatening nuclear war
against a foreign nation.
There’s misuse of the Justice Department
to try to prosecute political adversaries.
And there’s the giving aid and comfort to
neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
All of this—all of this deserves an impeachment
investigation in the U.S. House of Representatives.
AMY GOODMAN: So, in response to some Democratic
leaders warning against calls for impeachment
before Robert Mueller’s investigation has
been completed, billionaire environmentalist
Tom Steyer defended his $20 million ad campaign
to impeach President Trump, and blasted his
critics, telling The Wall Street Journal,
“The Republican nominee wasn’t really
a Republican.
The person who energized the Democratic Party
wasn’t really a Democrat.
So, when I hear the Washington establishment
tell me, 'Shut the f— up,' I think, well,
maybe.”
And on Thursday, he tweeted, “It doesn’t
surprise me that the political establishment
in Washington, D.C. can’t imagine the idea
of the American people having an independent
voice.
They’re scared of any threat to their control.
But it’s important to do what’s right,”
said Tom Steyer.
I want to play a clip of the ad that has been
running on television.
TOM STEYER: He’s brought us to the brink
of nuclear war, obstructed justice at the
FBI.
And in direct violation of the Constitution,
he’s taken money from foreign governments
and threatened to shut down news organizations
that report the truth.
If that isn’t a case for impeaching and
removing a dangerous president, then what
has our government become?
AMY GOODMAN: That’s the billionaire Tom
Steyer, who has spent millions on this ad
campaign that’s running on television.
Can you talk about what he is attempting to
do—it’s the Need to Impeach campaign—and
whether you’re working with him, John Bonifaz?
JOHN BONIFAZ: Well, we’re in communication
with Tom Steyer and his team about collaborating
possibly, and we do think what’s important
here is to elevate the national conversation.
He’s obviously helping to do that.
We fully agree with all that he’s saying
about the need for this impeachment process
to move forward in the House of Representatives.
And the more voices that come forward from
the American people all over the country is
going to help push that forward in Congress.
AMY GOODMAN: So let’s talk about what’s
happened this November, these six House Democrats
announcing they’ve introduced articles of
impeachment against President Trump.
This is Congressman Steve Cohen making the
announcement on November 15th.
REP.
STEVE COHEN: I am proud to stand here with
my friend, Congressman Gutiérrez, with other
congresspeople who will be here, in announcing
that we are introducing articles of impeachment
to remove President Trump from office.
There will be, I believe, six signatories
on the resolution.
We have taken this action because of great
concern for our country and our Constitution,
our national security and our democracy.
We believe that President Trump has violated
the Constitution, and we’ve introduced five
articles of impeachment.
AMY GOODMAN: Again, that’s Congressmember
Steve Cohen of Memphis, Tennessee.
Joining him, Luis Gutiérrez of Chicago, Marcia
Fudge of Ohio, Adriano Espaillat of New York,
John Yarmuth of Kentucky and Al Green of Houston,
Texas.
So, explain what they’re introducing.
JOHN BONIFAZ: Well, they’ve introduced five
articles of impeachment, and they’ve done
it as a group.
And it’s significant because up until now
there were two members of Congress, Al Green
being one of them, Congressman Al Green from
Houston, and Congressman Brad Sherman from
Los Angeles, who had introduced articles of
impeachment around obstruction of justice.
These articles go beyond obstruction of justice,
including that, but also the violations of
the foreign and domestic emoluments clauses
and the president’s continued attacks on
freedom of the press and on the independence
of the judiciary.
And what’s significant here, Amy, is that
these articles have been introduced by members
of Congress despite the continued opposition
by their own party’s leadership in the Congress.
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has made clear
that she doesn’t think impeachment should
move forward at this time, and yet they are
going ahead and moving this forward.
And I think they’re asking for other members
of Congress to join them, beyond those who
already have stepped forward.
And we, as Americans, all across the country,
should push for an impeachment investigation
and should urge our members of Congress to
take the same kind of action.
AMY GOODMAN: So, respond to Nancy Pelosi.
I mean, what these Democrats are saying is
this is not the way to retake the House in
2018, that if you disagree with the president,
the way to deal with that is through elections.
Explain why you see impeachment as key.
JOHN BONIFAZ: Well, we’re a nonpartisan
organization.
We’re not involved in the political strategy
of any political party.
What we are focused on is defending our Constitution.
At this particular moment in time, it is not
acceptable to say that we will simply kick
the can down the road and wait until after
an election cycle to lay the groundwork for
the impeachment proceedings.
They may not happen tomorrow.
They may not get started next month.
But the fact is, we need to be laying that
groundwork and making this call now.
And members of Congress, whether they’re
Democratic, Republican, independent or what
have you, need to be stepping up to protect
and defend the Constitution.
That’s the oath they took, in addition to
the president taking that oath, to protect,
defend and preserve the Constitution.
And the other point on this, Amy, is that
Nancy Pelosi has been saying that we don’t
have the facts out, we don’t have the Mueller
investigation completed.
But what they’re really saying is they want
other facts out, because we already have the
facts out about what this president has done
with respect to the emoluments clauses, with
respect to obstruction of justice and so many
other impeachable offenses.
And when we look at the Mueller investigation,
we’re mixing apples and oranges.
That’s a criminal investigation, whether
or not the president and his associates have
committed violations of federal criminal law.
The question of impeachment is about abuse
of power, abuse of public trust, crimes against
the state.
And it is just wrong for any member of Congress
to suggest that a criminal investigation needs
to be completed before an impeachment proceeding
can begin.
AMY GOODMAN: One of the people who has gone
before the congressional committees is Roger
Stone, one of President Trump’s oldest advisers.
He issued what appeared to be a veiled threat,
warning in August any politician who voted
to impeach President Trump would face a violent
response.
ROGER STONE: Try to impeach him.
Just try it.
You will have a spasm of violence in this
country, an insurrection like you’ve never
seen.
REPORTER: You think?
ROGER STONE: No question.
REPORTER: You think if he got impeached, like
the country would go to—
ROGER STONE: Both sides are heavily armed,
my friend.
Yes, absolutely.
This is not 1974.
The people will not stand for impeachment.
A politician who votes for it would be endangering
their own life.
There will be violence on both sides.
Let me make this clear: I’m not advocating
violence, but I am predicting it.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Roger Stone speaking
to TMZ.
He says there would be a violent response.
John Bonifaz?
JOHN BONIFAZ: It’s an outrageous statement,
but it also highlights that we cannot allow
fear to dictate our response to this lawless
president.
We cannot say that we’re going to stay on
the sidelines here while the Constitution
is being shredded, because of that kind of
claim that Roger Stone or anyone else might
make.
AMY GOODMAN: So, explain how impeachment would
work.
What would the process look like?
JOHN BONIFAZ: So, the first process involves
the House Judiciary Committee taking up the
question.
The House of Representatives would need to
pass a resolution that would advance to the
House Judiciary Committee the question of
an impeachment investigation or articles of
impeachment.
You know, Congressman Al Green has said that
he wants to go to the floor with a privileged
resolution immediately, that will force a
vote in the House of Representatives as early
as in the next few days in this coming week.
But, you know, beyond that process, the process
of having the House Judiciary Committee take
up this question would then involve subpoena
power, would then involve taking witnesses.
This is what happened during the Nixon impeachment
proceedings.
I understand when people say, “Well, the
Republicans control the House Judiciary Committee.
They control the House of Representatives.
They control the Senate.
Where do we think this process could actually
go?”
But, you know, there were plenty of people
who argued on the day that we launched this
campaign, on Inauguration Day, that there
was just no way people would be standing up
to demand this, and now we see millions of
Americans demanding it.
Now we see 17 communities on record, and now
we see seven members of Congress on record.
And the facts continue to build that this
president is defying the rule of law.
We must place country over party here and
stand up for the basic principle that no one
is above the law.
AMY GOODMAN: So, if you were arguing for the
impeachment in Congress, if you were laying
out the case against Trump over this almost
a year that he’s been in office—not quite
yet—can you lay out the articles of impeachment?
JOHN BONIFAZ: Yes.
We would start with the violations of the
two anti-corruption provisions of the Constitution:
the Foreign Emoluments Clause and the Domestic
Emoluments Clause.
This president is treating the Oval Office
as a profit-making enterprise at the public
expense.
He’s taking illegal payments and benefits
from foreign governments in violation of the
Foreign Emoluments Clause, and he’s taking
illegal payments from the state governments
around the country, as well as from the federal
government, in violation of the Domestic Emoluments
Clause.
That’s point one, or point one and two,
if you will, because they’re two different
clauses.
Then you have obstruction of justice.
This is a president who first demanded loyalty
of his former FBI Director James Comey.
When he didn’t get that, he went ahead and
fired him for not letting go, as he put it,
of the Flynn investigation and “this Russia
thing,” as he said.
That was obstruction of justice.
That FBI director was involved in investigating
the Russian interference in the 2016 election
and its potential connection to the Trump
campaign.
It led to the appointment of special counsel
Robert Mueller.
And now we know, based on new reporting by
The New York Times, that soon after that,
the president sought to stop the congressional
investigations in the Senate that were going—that
continue to go on with respect to that.
So obstruction of justice, which was the first
article of impeachment against Richard Nixon,
would certainly be part of this case.
Then we have the potential conspiracy with
the Russian government, potential collusion,
to violate federal campaign finance laws and
other federal laws and to interfere with our
elections.
That evidence continues to be built.
But it’s also an impeachment question, and
the House Judiciary Committee should take
that up.
Then we have the abuse of the pardon power.
This is a power that is not unlimited by a
president.
And what the president has done with the pardon
of former sheriff, Maricopa County Sheriff
Joe Arpaio, is he has essentially undermined
the due process rights of the thousands of
people who were impacted by Sheriff Joe Arpaio’s
illegal actions.
This is the sheriff who was found in criminal
contempt of court for refusing to stop his
illegal practices of detaining people based
on the color of their skin.
And this president went ahead and used the
pardon power in a wrongful way to pardon him.
Then we have the giving aid and comfort to
neo-Nazis and white supremacists, not just
what the president said after the Charlottesville
tragedy, but also his most recent tweets,
tweeting out anti-Muslim—inflammatory anti-Muslim
videos.
This president is giving that aid and comfort
to white supremacists.
Then, you know, this president also has engaged
in recklessly threatening nuclear war.
Now, the fact is that the president is the
commander-in-chief.
He does not have the power to initiate a war.
That is established under the War Powers Clause,
despite the fact that we’ve seen violations
of it in the past.
But this takes it to a whole new scale.
This is a president who literally is engaged
in recklessly threatening nuclear war against
a foreign nation.
That reckless and wanton disregard for the
established norms and for essentially putting
millions of lives at stake, threatening really
the world, is an impeachable offense.
And then, finally, most recently, this president
has talked about how he would like to see
the Justice Department prosecute Hillary Clinton
and other political adversaries.
This misuse of the Justice Department, or
attempted misuse, to prosecute political adversaries
would be another impeachable offense worthy
of investigation.
AMY GOODMAN: Constitutional attorney John
Bonifaz, co-founder and director of Free Speech
for People.
For Part 1 of our conversation, go to democracynow.org.
When we come back, 27 psychiatrists and mental
health experts assess a president.
Stay with us.
