AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, Democracy
Now.org, The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And I'm Juan Gonzalez.
Welcome to all of our listeners and viewers
around the country and around the world.
President Donald Trump’s former campaign
chair, Paul Manafort, and Manafort’s former
business associate, Rick Gates, surrendered
to authorities Monday morning, after a federal
grand jury handed down the first indictments
in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation
into Russia’s alleged interference in the
2016 presidential election.
Manafort and Gates pleaded not guilty to all
charges filed against them in a 12-count indictment,
which included money laundering, acting as
unregistered agents of Ukraine’s former
pro-Russian government and conspiracy against
the United States.
Authorities also announced a third former
Trump adviser, George Papadopoulos, had pleaded
guilty in early October to lying to the FBI.
White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders said
Monday the indictments have nothing to do
with the president’s campaign or campaign
activities.
PRESS SECRETARY SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS: The
real collusion scandal, as we’ve said several
times before, has everything to do with the
Clinton campaign, Fusion GPS and Russia.
There’s clear evidence of the Clinton campaign
colluding with Russian intelligence to spread
disinformation and smear the president to
influence the election.
We’ve been saying from day one, there’s
been no evidence of Trump-Russia collusion.
And nothing in the indictment today changes
that at all.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: President Trump responded
to news of the indictments on Twitter by lashing
out against his former campaign rival, Hillary
Clinton, and the Democratic Party.
He wrote, quote, “Sorry, but this is years
ago, before Paul Manafort was part of the
Trump campaign.
But why aren’t Crooked Hillary & the Dems
the focus?
....Also, there is NO COLLUSION!”
The president’s tweets came before news
broke of George Papadopoulos’s indictment,
and Trump has not tweeted since then.
Meanwhile, Democratic leaders warned the White
House against firing special counsel Mueller.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said
in a statement, quote, “Congress must respond
swiftly and unequivocally in a bipartisan
way to assure that the investigation will
continues,” end of quote.
AMY GOODMAN: Manafort’s bail was set at
$10 million, Gates’ set at $5 million.
They’ve both been placed under house arrest.
Meanwhile, observers are closely watching
the case against George Papadopoulos, an early
foreign policy adviser to Trump’s 2016 campaign,
who may provide greater evidence of possible
collusion between the Russian government and
the Trump campaign.
According to his plea deal, Papadopoulos was
told that the Russians had dirt on Hillary
Clinton, and through a series of communications
with foreign agents, he tried to facilitate
communication between the Trump campaign and
Russian agents.
Papadopoulos was arrested in July 2017, has
been cooperating with federal authorities
since then, striking a plea deal earlier this
month.
The plea deal was just announced, after the
indictments against Manafort and Gates.
For more, we’re joined by Marcy Wheeler
in Michigan, an independent journalist who
covers national security and civil liberties.
She runs the website EmptyWheel.net.
And her new piece for The Intercept is headlined
“George Papadopoulos’s Indictment is Very,
Very Bad News for Attorney General Jeff Sessions.”
Marcy, welcome back to Democracy Now!
Well, why don’t you start with the indictments
against the chairman of Donald Trump’s campaign,
Manafort, and Manafort’s business executive,
Gates?
Talk about their significance and whether
they relate to collusion.
MARCY WHEELER: Well, they’re designed to
get them to flip.
So, in other words, Mueller has been targeting
Manafort for quite some time.
I think Gates was actually a bit surprised
that he was indicted yesterday.
And what he has done is charge them with crimes
that are fairly controllable—I mean, they
don’t involve colluding with a foreign—you
know, with Russia, for example—such that
they will be enticed to make a plea deal,
just as Papadopoulos did, and provide more
information about what Mueller is really investigating,
which is whether or not the Trump campaign,
for example, was trying to work with Russian
agents on June 9th, 2016, when they agreed
to take a meeting to find dirt on Hillary
Clinton.
So, it’s mostly garden-variety money laundering,
although fairly spectacular garden-variety
money laundering.
Manafort was charged of laundering a million
dollars through the local antique rug shop.
There’s also a scheme going back to 2012
where Manafort and Gates were both pretending
not to be lobbying on whether or not Ukraine
was democratic and pro-EU, and getting, incidentally,
Tony Podesta, John Podesta—Hillary Clinton’s
campaign adviser’s brother—to lobby on
his behalf, while hiding that they were actually
lobbying.
And that’s the big thing that gets Gates.
But again, the idea is to get them to make
a plea deal so that then Mueller can get them
to provide more evidence on the case in chief,
on the way in which the Trump administration—the
Trump campaign was trying to reach out to
the Russians.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Marcy Wheeler, the issue
of Gates also being indicted?
And as you have pointed out in some of your
articles, Manafort was only a chair of the
campaign for a short period of time in 2016,
but Gates stayed on and actually was involved
in the Trump campaign even through the inauguration,
his inauguration as president.
The significance of Gates being included in
this indictment?
MARCY WHEELER: Well, I made a joke this morning.
Mueller’s deputy, Andrew Weissmann, is fairly
well known for indicting the target and the
target’s family member.
Manafort has had some marital problems recently,
so I joked this morning that rather than indicting
Manafort’s wife, who legitimately could
have been tied to some of these, because her
name is on the business, as well, he instead
indicted Manafort’s long-term business partner,
Gates, to make him feel like he was dragging
somebody else into the dirt.
And so—but you’re right.
Gates—in the Papadopoulos plea deal, there
is an interchange between Manafort and Gates
pertaining to whether or not the campaign
was going to try and set up a meeting with
Vladimir Putin.
And Gates will have been in a lot of these
conversations all the way through the inauguration,
so he knows some stuff that—Manafort was
ousted in August, although he’s stayed close
to Trump and has—you know, was speaking
to Trump as recently as February.
But Gates was there in the White House as
part of the transition, and so will have dirt
of his own to deal with, with special counsel
Mueller.
AMY GOODMAN: So let’s talk about George
Papadopoulos and the significance here.
He was what?
Arrested the day after Manafort’s house
was raided.
He pled guilty October 5th, but it was only
announced yesterday.
Trump tweeted, you know, after Manafort, Gates
indictments, this shows no collusion, which
he was right about, with Manafort and Gates.
This was before—right?—they worked for
him.
But when the Papadopoulos plea deal was announced,
Trump stopped tweeting altogether and then
went to lunch with Jeff Sessions, his attorney
general.
So, talk about George Papadopoulos, Jeff Sessions
and the significance of what Papadopoulos
knows.
MARCY WHEELER: So, Papadopoulos was living
in London.
He was basically—it’s quite clear from
the plea, he was being courted by Russian
handlers, by three different Russian handlers,
to set up a meeting.
They wanted to set up a meeting between Putin
and Trump.
And as the summer went on, Papadopoulos and
Manafort were going to be the ones who went
for the meeting.
As I said, there is a footnote in the plea
that shows Manafort talking to Gates and saying,
“We need to avoid kind of making it clear
that we’re kind of cozying up to the Russians
here.”
So, the other really important thing, which
isn’t really in the plea agreement but we
know is part of the discussions that Papadopoulos
has been having since July with Mueller’s
people, and that is that he was accused of
lying about whether—about what he took this
reference from the Russians to mean, that
they had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form
of thousands of emails.
And it is clear that they have accused him
of lying about when he learned about that,
but the rest is kind of silent, which is the
beauty of this plea agreement, because it’s
designed to get everyone panicking because
they don’t know what Papadopoulos has said.
But the suggestion there is that by April—actually,
three days before the DNC realized that they
were being hacked by the Russians—Papadopoulos
knew that the Russians had thousands of Hillary
emails that they were seeking to drop as dirt,
as oppo, for this campaign.
And it was very clear that he kept in touch
with everyone else on the campaign.
So, in addition to Manafort and Gates, who
aren’t named but we know from other reporting
that they’re included, Corey Lewandowski,
who was also a campaign chair and remained
on the campaign, a guy by the name of Sam
Clovis, who has a confirmation hearing coming
up on November 9th for the Ag Department.
And then, most importantly, on March 31, Papadopoulos
was in a meeting—there’s a picture of
this—with both—with a bunch of foreign
policy advisers, but it includes Jeff Sessions,
now the attorney general, and Trump.
And at that meeting, he said, “My job is
to set up a meeting with Vladimir Putin.”
And as you said, Trump got really silent yesterday
after this was released.
But Sanders was saying, “Well, you know,
Trump doesn’t remember Russia coming up
in that meeting.”
Sessions hasn’t said anything about it.
But the point I made yesterday is that in
testimony on the 18th, Sessions said he knew
nothing about any campaign surrogates talking
to Russians.
Now we know he was in a meeting where he heard
about a meeting with Vladimir Putin.
So, his sworn testimony from two weeks ago
seems, as always is the case with Attorney
General Sessions, seems to be no longer operative
and proven yet again to be untrue.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Marcy Wheeler, I think
that—isn’t the Times reporting today that
at one of these meetings, that Sessions especially
said that this kind of meeting would not happen
between—certainly, between the candidate
himself and any Russian leaders?
So, clearly, he had to have some knowledge
of what was the information that Papadopoulos
was gathering beforehand.
MARCY WHEELER: Right.
At the very beginning of their discussions
about foreign policy—and this is, again,
quite clear from the plea agreement, the Papadopoulos
plea agreement—that a priority for the Trump
campaign was to make friends with Russia.
And at this meeting—and again, there’s
a picture floating out there with like eight
different campaign people and the president,
the now president.
At that meeting, Papadopoulos said, “My
job is to go set up a meeting between you,
Donald Trump, and Vladimir Putin.
And Vladimir Putin is very much looking forward
to that.”
And the important point about that is, from
March on—right?
March, there’s that meeting.
April, Papadopoulos learns about the email.
That really influences the mindset of everybody
who was in that June 9th, 2016, meeting with
a Russian lawyer and a bunch of other Russians,
where they offered dirt on Hillary Clinton,
because we know that at least one person on
the campaign, and probably a lot more, knew
two months earlier that the dirt was not political
donations going back years, but, instead,
emails that were stolen from Hillary Clinton.
So that really changes the mindset, particularly
for Paul Manafort—right?—because he would
have been in the loop, and he was in that
June 9th meeting.
That would change the mindset of what everyone
who took that June 9th meeting was doing.
AMY GOODMAN: So, this indictment is called
“Indictment (B),” right?
So, who is “Indictment (A)”?
MARCY WHEELER: We have no idea.
The docket just chronologically before the
Manafort-Gates docket is also sealed.
So it is possible somebody else got indicted.
And given that we don’t know about it, if
that is the case, then that person may be
cooperating.
It could actually be Tony Podesta.
As I said, John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s
campaign adviser, he stepped down from his
own influence-peddling firm, or lobbyist firm,
as they’re called, but they’re both—I
mean, he’s just as—he’s kind of the
Democratic sleazy counterpart of Paul Manafort.
So he stepped down because of this corruption.
He has been named a subject in the investigation,
so it’s not outside the realm of possibility
that he was also charged.
There’s this funny thing about these indictments
yesterday, where Manafort’s lawyer actually
said, “How dare the special counsel prosecute
somebody for violating the Foreign Agents
Registration Act?” because it hasn’t been
treated as a law for a very long time in D.C.
And I think—on top of everything else, I
think a lot of lobbyists in D.C. are going
to start admitting the kind of sleazy influence
peddling they’ve been doing, because now
Robert Mueller is going after it.
So, Tony Podesta is an outside possibility
for that.
Another possibility is Mike Flynn, because
the charges that he would be offered as a
first indictment to get him to flip are all
the same ones that Manafort would be, that
he hadn’t registered as a foreign agent
both for Turkey and for Russia, and that he
hadn’t disclosed all of his income on his
taxes.
So, it’s possible.
We don’t know.
You know, hopefully we’ll find out.
But again, what happened yesterday was, by
design, intended to get the people who are
named in the Papadopoulos plea and everybody
else who knows that they’ve been in conversations
with these people to start panicking, to start
thinking more seriously.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Marcy Wheeler, I wanted
to ask you about one other aspect of what
happened yesterday, the civil forfeiture attempts
by the federal government against Manafort.
What’s the significance of that, going after
his assets, as well?
MARCY WHEELER: Plus the $10 million bail,
right.
So, there were millions—I think $18 million—of
money-laundered funds brought into the United
States.
There’s the rugs.
There’s the suits.
And all of that—because it is the fruits
of the crimes alleged in the indictment, all
of that is now forfeitable, including a number
of homes, not all of them.
But what that serves to do is basically bankrupt
Manafort, who is already known to be in a
significant amount of debt.
So, it makes—I mean, he’s already paid
millions to his lawyers.
It makes it a lot harder for him to mount
a defense, because he no longer has any liquid
assets to pay lawyers out of.
And that’s the kind of—I mean, this is
an object lesson for everyone else, that says,
“Plea early, or you’re going to be in
much worse straits, because you’re not going
to have the money, and the charges are going
to start getting worse, and it’s going to
be—you know, it’s going to get increasingly
difficult to get yourself out of the pinch.”
AMY GOODMAN: Marcy Wheeler, 10 seconds, did
anything shock you yesterday?
MARCY WHEELER: No.
But I think everyone in D.C. was surprised
that Mueller was able to get this guy to take
a plea agreement on October 5th and keep it
silent 'til now.
So what shocked me is just how well he's keeping
secrets.
AMY GOODMAN: Marcy Wheeler, thanks so much
for being with us, independent journalist
who covers national security and civil liberties
issues, runs the website EmptyWheel.net.
Her new piece is for The Intercept; it’s
headlined, and we’ll link to it, “George
Papadopoulos’s Indictment is Very, Very
Bad News for Attorney General Jeff Sessions.”
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, well, we’re just back
from Puerto Rico, and now, reportedly, the
FBI is investigating the $300 million Whitefish
Energy deal.
Will it be killed altogether?
We’ll be back with the mayor of San Juan.
Stay with us.
