AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, the War and Peace report, I’m Amy Goodman.
AMY GOODMAN: We begin today’s show with
the sexual abuse scandal engulfing the British
charity Oxfam.
Oxfam has been hit with dozens more misconduct
allegations involving a slew of countries
in the days since The Times of London revealed
Oxfam tried to cover up sex crimes by senior
aid workers in Haiti after the devastating
2010 earthquake.
On Tuesday, Oxfam’s leadership was questioned
by British lawmakers in the Parliament, and
Oxfam apologized for its failure to report
sexual misconduct to Haitian authorities.
Prostitution is illegal in Haiti, but Oxfam
refused to report the activity of its aid
workers to Haitian police.
This is the British Parliament’s International
Development Committee questioning Oxfam’s
chief executive, Mark Goldring.
PAULINE LATHAM: Prostitution is illegal in
Haiti.
Shouldn’t Oxfam have reported the matter
anyway?
MARK GOLDRING: Oxfam should have reported
the matter to the Haitian authorities.
It wasn’t for Oxfam to decide whether a
crime had been committed or not, but something
that was serious and undermined the rule of
law and public confidence in Haiti, should
have been reported to the relevant Haitian
authorities.
I make—I can only apologize that Oxfam did
not do that.
AMY GOODMAN: On Monday, Oxfam released its
own internal report into the sex scandal.
It concluded senior aid workers at Oxfam,
including the country director in Haiti, hired
prostitutes at Oxfam properties in Haiti and
then tried to cover it up.
Oxfam’s internal report includes claims
three Oxfam staff members physically threatened
a witness during the charity’s internal
investigation.
Haiti has threatened to expel Oxfam from the
country.
This is Haiti’s external cooperation minister,
Aviol Fleurant.
AVIOL FLEURANT: [translated] They admitted
that there is evidence that Oxfam U.K. was
informed that these crimes occurred.
What hurt me is that they admitted that Haitian
authorities had at no time been informed by
Oxfam Haiti.
AMY GOODMAN: Roughly 7,000 people have canceled
their donations to Oxfam since the scandal
broke.
This comes as another well-known charity,
Save the Children, is also facing a growing
scandal.
The charity has told British authorities it
has fired 30 employees after 120 misconduct
complaints.
Save the Children has also apologized to female
employees who complained about the former
head of the organization, Justin Forsyth.
Well, for more, we’re joined now by three
guests.
From London, via Democracy Now!
video stream, Sean O’Neill is with us, the
chief reporter at The Times newspaper in London,
which broke the story of the Oxfam and Save
the Children scandals.
In Miami, Florida, we’re joined by the great
Haitian-American novelist Edwidge Danticat,
author of a number of books, including The
Farming of Bones, which won an American Book
Award.
Danticat’s new book is The Art of Death:
Writing the Final Story.
She has just returned from Haiti.
And here in New York, Taina Bien-Aimé is
with us, executive director of the Coalition
Against Trafficking in Women.
We welcome you all to Democracy Now!
Let’s go to London, where this story was
exposed by Sean O’Neill and the team at
The Times of London.
Can you talk about the chronology of what
you found out and what—of what you found
out and when you found it out?
SEAN O’NEILL: This story took quite a long
time to piece together.
We—well, I had been working on it for approximately
10 months, starting with a very nervous contact
approaching me, telling me that all is not
right with Oxfam and its behavior around the
world, and took quite a long time to persuade
that person to give me more detail.
And in October last year, we ran a story about
the treatment of Oxfam’s country director
in Nigeria, a woman called Lesley Agams, who
was sexually assaulted while attending a conference
in Oxford in 2010.
It was her first time in Britain.
She reported the sexual assault to her managers
at Oxfam.
The assault was allegedly carried out by one
of her senior managers.
She was not told to go to the police.
She was not told to make a formal complaint.
She was asked or advised to try and settle
that informally.
Three months later, she was sacked by the
man she alleges had sexually assaulted her.
When we ran that story and Oxfam admitted
they had got things wrong, that kind of opened
the door to other people to come forward to
us with more information.
And one of the first things that came out
was quite a lot of concern about what happened
in Haiti in 2011, when—at the time, Oxfam
had put out a statement saying that seven
people had been—seven men had been either
dismissed or allowed to resign for gross misconduct
and bringing Oxfam into disrepute.
But they did not go into the detail of what
happened.
And we managed to track down several people
who knew exactly what had happened, had blown
the whistle at the time and were still extremely
angry about the way Oxfam had handled that,
but also extremely angry that—extremely
nervous, sorry, about speaking.
So, it took a long time, again, to persuade
them to speak even off the record to us.
But their accounts were bolstered; you know,
they verified each other, even though these
people were not in touch with one another.
Some of them were able to supply documents,
including the investigation report.
And sort of by the end of January, we were
fairly confident we had the story in place.
But then we had a long period of to and fro
with Oxfam about what they wanted to say,
how they wanted to respond to it.
We gave them a long time to respond.
And really, for the first—you know, for
the first week—for the week before the story
and the three or four days after the story,
they were still in denial.
They were saying, “We didn’t hide anything.
We had been totally transparent back in 2011.”
And really, the unraveling of this, over the
past week, and the unraveling of their reputation,
their global reputation, I think, has been
quite shocking.
And I think that’s why it’s still having
ramifications today, you know, almost a fortnight
after we broke the story.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, let me go to Oxfam International
Executive Director Winnie Byanyima, who said,
quote, “hideous men” had “abused the
trust” of the public and were not representative
of Oxfam’s principles.
WINNIE BYANYIMA: Please allow me to begin
by saying how sorry I am about what has happened.
I’m ashamed.
I’ve spent my life trying to stand up for
women’s rights and to fight for people living
in poverty, so this is painful for me.
So this is about aligning our people with
the values of Oxfam.
Some hideous men came into our organization
and abused the trust of the British people,
the supporters.
But they were able to get away, to get a recommendation
to leave.
This was wrong.
So we’re going to change the culture.
And working on the culture costs money, and
we’re going to put money on this.
The use of prostitutes, in conditions of poverty
and helplessness and conflict, is exploitation.
It is abuse.
And it’s intolerable in our organization.
What happened to let the country director
go away with some dignity was wrong.
This is something that wouldn’t happen today
in Oxfam.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that is Oxfam International
Executive Director Winnie Byanyima testifying
before the British Parliament, somewhat undercut
by Oxfam’s chief executive, Mark Goldring,
who apologized for implying international
outrage of Oxfam’s sex abuse scandal was
overblown, saying it was not as if Oxfam,
quote, “murdered babies in their cots.”
He said this in an interview with The Guardian.
This is Stephen Twigg, chair of the International
Development Committee, questioning Goldring.
STEPHEN TWIGG: In your interview with The
Guardian published on Saturday, you appeared
to be downplaying this scandal, using the
parallel with the murder of babies in their
cots, which many people regarded as grossly
inappropriate.
Can I give you the opportunity to apologize?
MARK GOLDRING: Certainly, Chairman, I do apologize.
I was thinking under stress.
I had given many interviews.
I had made many decisions to try and lead
Oxfam’s response to this.
I was thinking about amazing work I’d seen
Oxfam do across the world, most recently for
refugees in—coming from Myanmar.
I should not have said those things.
It is not for Oxfam to judge issues of proportionality
or motivation.
I repeat Oxfam’s broader apology and my
personal apology.
I am sorry, we are sorry, for the damage that
Oxfam has done, both to the people of Haiti,
but also to wider efforts for aid and development
by possibly undermining public support.
So, I wholeheartedly apologize for those comments
and commit to work in that greater public
interest, so that Oxfam can make a powerful
role in the work that we all believe in.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Oxfam’s chief executive,
Mark Goldring, apologizing for his comments
that it’s not as if we were murdering babies
in their cots.
So, Sean O’Neill, if you can talk specifically
about Haiti and the Haitian—and the director
of Oxfam in Haiti, Roland Van Hauwermeiren,
and what exactly he is accused of doing, what
you wrote about in The Times of London?
SEAN O’NEILL: Van Hauwermeiren was the country
director, appointed shortly after the earthquake
in 2010.
He had a history of suspected misconduct.
He was allowed to resign from a charity called
Merlin, which is now part of Save the Children,
in Liberia in 2004.
He joined Oxfam in 2006 in Chad.
Again, there were concerns about what Oxfam
calls, in its report, “gender issues,”
which is kind of management speak for, I guess,
misconduct towards women, either the beneficiaries
or staff.
And despite those issues, he was allowed to
move on to the Congo and then eventually to
Haiti, where the allegations against him and
the allegations that were investigated and
that he admitted to were that he was having
sex with native women, paying them for sex.
And I’ve seen the transcript of his interview
with the Oxfam investigation.
And he admits in there that he had what he
calls prostitutes visit him on two or three
occasions at his home, which was, I believe,
quite a luxurious villa known as the Eagle’s
Nest, where he lived alone, surrounded by
security guards.
You know, he could live a very private and
secluded life there.
But he also talks, in that interview with
the investigators, about young mothers coming
to him and visiting him, and he’s giving
them baby milk, diapers, goods—you know,
basically essentials that they are living
on—and implies that he’s doing that in
return for sexual favors.
And one of my colleagues is in Haiti at the
moment, has been reporting from Haiti and
has tracked down and interviewed one of the
young women who slept with Van Hauwermeiren,
who said, yes, he did trade aid for sex with
her, and that she was very young at the time,
16, 17, and that although she now looks back
on it, you know, with some distaste, she felt
at the time it was saving her life and saving
her baby’s life.
So, hugely exploitative conduct on his part.
But quite separate from that, there was a
group of aid workers who were staying in an
apartment block, who—just a group of men,
an all-male apartment block.
And the allegations against them were that
they were bringing in prostitutes, or their
Haitian drivers were being sent out at night
to bring in prostitutes, supplied by a local
pimp, and that those women were being subjected
to some pretty degrading treatment.
A number of those men, I believe, were found
guilty of gross misconduct.
A number resigned will under investigation.
A number were accused but were kind of acquitted.
But we’re talking about, you know, an investigation
that was essentially carried out by an Oxfam
anti-fraud team, not by experienced law enforcement
investigators or people experienced in sexual
crimes.
So, a lot of those people were subsequently
dismissed for lesser matters, such as the
bullying and intimidation of witnesses or,
in one case, downloading pornography onto
an Oxfam computer.
So, there were a range of offenses, but the
common thread running through all of them
was some pretty nasty sexual exploitation
of local women who were, you know, in desperate
need after an earthquake that caused massive
devastation in Haiti.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, on Monday, Oxfam released
an internal investigation into the allegations
of sexual misconduct that showed Oxfam’s
country director in Haiti, Roland Van Hauwermeiren,
admitted to using prostitutes in his residence
during a humanitarian aid operation before
his resignation in 2011.
I mean, it’s amazing what you just pointed
out, that he was fired from another charity
years before and Oxfam then picked him up,
not clear what they knew.
Well, last week, Van Hauwermeiren dismissed
the allegations of sexual misconduct.
ROLAND VAN HAUWERMEIREN: [translated] I don’t
feel good about the people who, of course,
are told, by perhaps less professional journalists,
that Oxfam is an instrument to have sex orgies
using the money from good civilians.
That is absolutely not true.
AMY GOODMAN: So, again, that’s Roland Van
Hauwermeiren.
Sean O’Neill?
SEAN O’NEILL: He’s entitled to his say,
but I’m very confident in my sources, both
the human sources I’ve spoken to, who were
there at the time, who know exactly what went
on in that investigation, and very confident
of the documents that we obtained, some of
which are, you know, a transcript of his words.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to come back to
this discussion.
We’re talking to Sean O’Neill, who’s
the chief reporter at The Times of London
on this piece, this series of pieces, that
is blowing open this scandal around Oxfam,
as Oxfam tries to contain the damage.
In addition, we’ll be joined by the Haitian-American
writer Edwidge Danticat and Taina Bien-Aimé,
who is the head of the Coalition Against Trafficking
in Women.
Stay with us.
AMY GOODMAN: “American Poor,” a new song
by the band Dead Horses, debuting here on
Democracy Now!
