JUAN GONZÁLEZ: “Free, safe and legal.”
That was the slogan for the Abortion Rights
Campaign, launched by Irish women in 2012,
that led to an historic, landslide vote Friday
to liberalize the country’s highly restrictive
abortion laws.
BARRY RYAN: Votes in favor of the proposal,
1,429,981.
AMY GOODMAN: Two-thirds of those who went
to the polls voted yes on a referendum to
repeal the Eighth Amendment of Ireland’s
constitution, which was added in 1983 and
gave equal rights to a woman and her unborn
child.
Many celebrated Saturday outside Dublin Castle.
AOIFE RYAN: So overwhelming, but in the best
way possible.
Like, we never expected that it would be so
much of a landslide that it’s seeming to
be.
And that just—it makes it feel so much better,
because it’s the majority.
It’s what the people of Ireland want.
And that’s so heartwarming.
JANINE FRETWELL: For all women in Ireland,
it is just momentous.
And nobody has to travel anymore; they can
be looked after in their own country.
And I work in that profession, have done for
10 years, and I can’t tell you—it’s
brought me to tears today that this has actually
happened.
It’s just incredible.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: By voting yes, supporters
also backed legislation, which must still
be introduced, to allow women to seek an abortion
during the first 12 weeks of their pregnancy.
Ireland is a Catholic-majority country.
But the moral authority of the Catholic clergy,
who oppose abortion, has been damaged by sexual
abuse scandals and cruel treatment of unmarried
pregnant women.
On Monday, Bishop Kevin Doran, chairman of
the Irish Bishops’ Conference Committee
for Bioethics, said during an interview on
RTÉ Radio 1 with Sean O’Rourke that voting
yes was a sin.
BISHOP KEVIN DORAN: If you voted yes, knowing
and intending that abortion would be the outcome,
then you should consider coming to confession,
where you would be received with the same
compassion that is shown to any other penitent.
SEAN O’ROURKE: Are you saying that, Bishop
Doran, that people who voted yes, knowing
that it was going to lead to abortion—it
couldn’t have been leading to anything else.
BISHOP KEVIN DORAN: Yeah.
SEAN O’ROURKE: That’s what this was all
about.
Are you saying that it was a sin to have voted
yes last Friday?
BISHOP KEVIN DORAN: If they knew and intended
abortion as the outcome, yes, I believe so.
AMY GOODMAN: But other church leaders interviewed
on RTÉ Radio 1, Ireland’s public radio,
had a different response to Friday’s vote.
This is Father Brian D’Arcy, one of Ireland’s
best-known priests, speaking Monday.
FATHER BRIAN D’ARCY: I wouldn’t like to
attribute sin in this matter at all.
I think, you know—I think it’s the wrong
language for this, because this isn’t an
issue about church law at all.
This is an issue about how the state is attempting
to treat all its people in an emerging way,
in an emerging republic, in an emerging world,
ever-changing world, in which many values
have to be changed and looked at, in which
medical science is changed and looked at,
in which ethics are being changed and looked
at differently.
And each of us has to struggle.
That’s exactly what a Christian conscience
has to do, to struggle to find a way of accepting
what is right for yourself, while also allowing
what you couldn’t allow for yourself to
be allowed for others who might view life
and its ethics and morality in a different
way.
AMY GOODMAN: Views on abortion in Ireland
also changed after the high-profile death
of Indian dentist Savita Halappanavar, who
suffered a miscarriage in an Irish hospital
in 2012.
Doctors refused her repeated requests for
an abortion, because they could detect a fetal
heartbeat, and she contracted a fatal infection.
Meanwhile, Friday’s vote will not change
abortion access in British-ruled Northern
Ireland, where 19th century laws barring the
procedure remain in place.
For more, we go to Dublin, Ireland, where
we’re joined by two guests.
Grainne Griffin is co-director of Together
for Yes campaign.
She’s also the co-founder of the Abortion
Rights Campaign.
And Annie Hoey is the canvassing coordinator
for Together for Yes.
She’s former Union of Students in Ireland
president.
We welcome you both to Democracy Now!
Grainne Griffin, let’s begin with you.
Explain exactly what took place this weekend
and how historic it was.
GRAINNE GRIFFIN: Well, I think, on Friday,
the country went to the polls, and what we
saw when the votes were counted on Saturday
was that Ireland revealed itself as very much
a changed country to the world.
And it was about much more, in the end, than
abortion rights and access to safe reproductive
healthcare.
It was about women stepping forward, and particularly
younger women, and being seen as equals in
their own society.
And for so many, who have worked for so long,
for decades, and the weeks and the months
coming up to this, this really was a validation
of the place of women in our society and a
sense that they have been accepted, and overwhelmingly
accepted, by everyone who voted on Friday.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Annie Hoey, in terms
of the role of young people, did you or any
of the advocates of the—of removing this
amendment to the constitution expect such
a landslide vote?
Especially, could you talk about the role
of young people?
ANNIE HOEY: Well, young people have been involved
in the issue of reproductive justice in Ireland
for a really long time.
Students’ unions were taken to court, and
by the Society for the Protection of the Unborn
Child, because in the late ’80s we were
the only ones who were giving out information
about how to access abortions in the U.K.
So, young people have been involved in this
for decades now.
And I think when we saw 87 percent of 18-
to 25-year-olds voted yes, 90 percent of women
age 18 to 25 voted yes, and I think that shows
a real validation that young people want to
take control over their own futures.
They saw the change that was possible.
They saw, I think, the past of what Ireland
was like, and they recognized that they didn’t
want that for themselves.
We didn’t want that for our futures.
We wanted a better future for ourselves.
We wanted one where care and compassion was
kind of embroidered into the fabric of our
society.
And young people, I think, really stepped
up to the plate.
So, while I think a lot of people were surprised
maybe at the huge numbers—I’ve been working
with young people for a long time, and we
have been incredibly passionate about this
issue.
We have seen across the country students and
young people coming out, having referendums
on campuses, young people getting involved
in setting up local Together for Yes groups
and working with maybe some of the stalwarts
of the campaigns from the 1983 referendum.
And I just think this became a really exciting
time for young people to be involved in a
political movement.
And I hope that we see that going forward.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to turn to the Irish prime
minister, who campaigned to repeal the laws,
speaking Saturday.
PRIME MINISTER LEO VARADKAR: Today is a historic
day for Ireland.
A quiet revolution has taken place, and today
is a great act of democracy.
A hundred years since women gained the right
to vote, today we, as a people, have spoken,
and we say that we trust women and respect
women to make their own decisions and their
own choices.
… For me, it’s also a day when we say,
“No more”—no more to doctors telling
their patients that there’s nothing can
be done for them in their own country; no
more lonely journeys across the Irish Sea;
no more stigma, as the veil of secrecy is
lifted; and no more isolation, as the burden
of shame is gone.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Grainne Griffin, talk about
the significance of his statement and also
exactly how you organized.
How long has this been going on?
Who introduced the referendum?
And how did you campaign?
GRAINNE GRIFFIN: Well, I think what Leo Varadkar
spoke to there, in terms of the breaking down
and the stigma and the silence and all of
those pieces, that was incredibly significant,
in terms of what we saw on Saturday.
But in terms of his words about it being a
quiet revolution, I think a lot of the women
who have been organized would say that it
actually hasn’t been that quiet, that people
have been out loud and vocal on this for quite
a number of years, and that what we discovered
in the result we saw on Saturday was that
people have been listening.
There are many, many women and organizations
who have been campaigning on this issue, going
back over the decades, back as far as the
’83 referendum and before that.
But I think what we really saw in terms of
the lead-up into this particular referendum
was, since 2012 and since the really tragic
death of Savita, we saw a really strong movement
of younger women coming together and getting
involved in very strategic and very tactical
grassroots organizing all over the country,
with a real aim to speak openly and honestly
about what the reality of abortion and reproductive
health services in Irish people’s lives
looked like, because what we found was that
there has just been such a huge silence on
this issue over the years.
And in fact, when we named ourselves the Abortion
Rights Campaign, it was actually quite a controversial
decision, because “abortion” was not a
word that people liked saying in public.
It was a difficult word.
And I think if you look at how far we’ve
come, from 2012 and that time to today, you
can really see how much society has opened
up and actually entered into a dialogue on
this issue.
And so, I think, really, at the core of it
was that kind of regional, local organizing
for setting up things like speak-outs, where
people told their stories of accessing abortion
care abroad, coupled with then, of course,
judicial advocacy, parliamentary advocacy,
and really a very broad range of efforts and
of tactics that were all leading towards a
very coordinated and a very clear center,
which was to repeal the Eighth Amendment and
to bring in legislation that allowed for abortion
access without the need to give a clear reason,
because it was incredibly important that when
we saw this change—and we always firmly
believed that we would see this change—that
it would be for everybody and that this would
not be limited to smaller, particularly vulnerable
groups of people who need reproductive rights
services, like in the case of rape or fatal
fetal anomaly, but this was something that
needed to provide for all women who needed
to seek care, for whatever reason, and to
recognize that every reason is valid.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And, Grainne, could you talk
about the role of the Catholic Church, clearly
in opposition to the movement, and with the
pope visiting Ireland in a couple of months?
Your sense of the grip of the Catholic Church
on the Irish consciousness?
GRAINNE GRIFFIN: I think probably the most
striking thing about the referendum debate
and the role of the Catholic Church was the
fact that they—we weren’t speaking to
them.
Like, our campaign spoke firmly to the people
and about the kind of Irish society that we
wanted to see.
And while the majority of Irish people do
identify as Catholic and many of them are
mass-going, what we saw was that people did
not turn to the Catholic Church for their
moral authority on this issue.
They looked to themselves and to the kind
of values and the kind of integrity and dignity
and compassion that they wanted to show to
the women of Ireland.
And so, while I’m sure—while the church
have their position, in the same way as Irish
people have fanned their own moral compass
on issues like contraception and divorce in
the past, we found they took that same path
here on Saturday.
AMY GOODMAN: And the sexual abuse scandal
by priests in Ireland, can you talk about
how that weakened the church?
Do think that also played a role here?
GRAINNE GRIFFIN: I think, over the last number
of decades, in particularly, we have seen
the weakening of the moral authority of the
Catholic Church—I mean, absolutely.
And I think anybody watching, from any perspective,
be it global or locally here, will have seen
that.
And the abuse scandals that have come out
have certainly played a role in that, in addition
to—in addition to the news of just how clearly
and how badly the church has treated women
over the years—the Magdalene laundries,
tomb babies, the mother and baby homes.
I mean, the list has gone on.
And certainly the Catholic Church is not seen
in Ireland to be in a position where it can
really speak to anybody as to how to care
for and treat, for the most vulnerable and
for women in our society.
I mean, the Catholic Church do still play
a very strong role in terms of their position
on school boards, on hospital boards, and
they’re very involved in the actual provision
of social care in our society.
And I think that’s something that everybody
will be keeping a very close eye on now, as
we look to the implementation of this legislation
and the implementation of this healthcare
in Irish hospitals, that it is indeed everything
that the Irish people voted for.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to break, then
come back to this discussion and talk about
exactly what this means, now that the referendum
has passed, repealing the 1983 law.
Grainne Griffin is with Together for Yes,
abortion rights campaign, and Annie Hoey,
Together for Yes, former Union of Students
in Ireland president.
This is Democracy Now!
We’ll be back with them in 
Dublin 
in a moment.
