JUAN GONZÁLEZ: North Korea is warning that
U.S. actions are bringing the Korean Peninsula
to the brink of nuclear war.
The warning came Monday as the U.S. and South
Korea held massive war games, mobilizing warships,
thousands of troops and some 200 U.S. planes,
many of them capable of deploying nuclear
bombs.
North Korea’s Foreign Ministry issued a
statement calling President Trump a, quote,
“nuclear demon.”
Earlier this year, North Korea said it would
freeze its nuclear weapons program in exchange
for an end to U.S. and South Korean war games,
an overture rejected by the Trump administration.
As tensions between the U.S. and North Korea
ramp up, today we’re joined for the hour
by a nuclear war planner to discuss what nuclear
war would look like.
He is already well known for another reason,
as one of the world’s most famous whistleblowers.
In 1971, Daniel Ellsberg was a high-level
military analyst when he leaked a top-secret
report that detailed the history of U.S. involvement
in Vietnam, including a secret dramatic escalation
of troops and bombings in what looked like
an unwinnable war.
He photocopied and shared the 7,000-page document
with The New York Times and other publications.
The report came to be known as the Pentagon
Papers and played a key role in ending the
Vietnam War.
AMY GOODMAN: Well, few know that 10 years
before, in 1961, Daniel Ellsberg was a consultant
with the Pentagon and the the White House,
where he drafted plans for nuclear war.
In his book, just out this week, titled The
Doomsday Machine: Confessions of a Nuclear
War Planner, Dan Ellsberg reveals for the
first time he also made copies of top-secret
documents from his nuclear studies—an entire
second set of papers in addition to the Pentagon
Papers, for which he is known.
Dan Ellsberg is also the author of a 2003
memoir about the Pentagon Papers and Vietnam
called Secrets, in which he did not discuss
this other set of papers.
He’s the subject of the Oscar-nominated
documentary The Most Dangerous Man in America.
Dan Ellsberg will be a character in the forthcoming
Steven Spielberg film about the Pentagon Papers
called The Post.
When the come back from our break, we’ll
speak with Dan Ellsberg for the hour about
nuclear war, the plans he drew up, what nuclear
war would look like and his history as the
most famous whistleblower in America.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “We Will All Go Together When
We Go” by Tom Lehrer.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
We’re joined by Dan Ellsberg for the hour,
yes, known for leaking the Pentagon Papers
in 1971.
Today we learn about something else he did
over the years, in fact, decades ago: writing
up plans for a nuclear war.
His book details this, just out this week,
The Doomsday Machine: Confessions of a Nuclear
War Planner.
So, you made copies of top-secret reports
for plans about nuclear war years before you
copied the Pentagon Papers—
DANIEL ELLSBERG: That’s right.
AMY GOODMAN: —and released them to the press?
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Essentially, my notes, and
sometimes verbatim excerpts, not the entire
plans themselves, but on plans that were then
unknown to the president, to begin with, to
President Kennedy.
I briefed his aide, McGeorge Bundy, in his
first month in office on the nature of the
plans and some of the other problems, like
the delegation of authority to theater commanders
for nuclear war by President Eisenhower, which
was fairly shocking to McGeorge Bundy, even
though Kennedy chose to renew that delegation,
as other presidents have.
But I was given the job of improving the Eisenhower
plans, which was not a very high bar, actually,
at that time, because they were, on their
face, the worst plans in the history of warfare.
A number of people who saw them, but very
few civilians ever got a look at them.
In fact, the joint chiefs couldn’t really
get the targets out of General LeMay at the
Strategic Air Command.
And there was a good reason for that: They
were insane.
They called for first-strike plans, which
was by order of President Eisenhower.
He didn’t want any plan for limited war
of any kind with the Soviet Union, under any
circumstances, because that would enable the
Army to ask for enormous numbers of divisions
or even tactical nuclear weapons to deal with
the Soviets.
So he required that the only plan for fighting
Soviets, under any circumstances, such as
an encounter in the Berlin corridor, the access
to West Berlin, or over Iran, which was already
a flashpoint at that point, or Yugoslavia,
if they had gone in—however the war started—with
an uprising in East Germany, for example—however
it got started, Eisenhower’s directed plan
was for all-out war, in a first initiation
of nuclear war, assuming the Soviets had not
used nuclear weapons.
And that plan called, in our first strike,
for hitting every city—actually, every town
over 25,000—in the USSR and every city in
China.
A war with Russia would inevitably involve
immediate attacks on every city in China.
In the course of doing this—pardon me—there
were no reserves.
Everything was to be thrown as soon as it
was available—it was a vast trucking operation
of thermonuclear weapons—over to the USSR,
but not only the USSR.
The captive nations, the East Europe satellites
in the Warsaw Pact, were to be hit in their
air defenses, which were all near cities,
their transport points, their communications
of any kind.
So they were to be annihilated, as well.
I couldn’t believe, when I saw these, that
the joint chiefs actually had ever calculated
how many people they would actually kill in
this course.
In fact, colonels who were friends of mine
in the Air Staff told me they had never seen
an actual figure for the total casualties.
We had exact figures of the number of targets
and how many planes would be needed and every
sort of thing, many calculations.
But not victims.
So, I drafted a question, which the aide to
McGeorge Bundy, Bob Komer, sent to the joint
chiefs in the name of the president.
And the question was: In the event of your
carrying out your general nuclear war plans,
which were first-strike plans, how many will
die?
First I asked, in the USSR and China alone,
in the thought that, by the way, they’d
be embarrassed to discover—to say, “We
have to have more time.
We’ve never really calculated that.”
I was wrong.
And my friends were wrong in the Air Force.
They came back with an answer very quickly:
325 million people in the USSR and China alone.
Well, then I asked, “All right, how many
altogether?”
And a few days later, 100 million in East
Europe, the captive nations, another 100 million
in West Europe, our allies, from our own strikes,
by fallout, depending on which way the wind
blew, and, however the wind blew, a third
100 million in adjoining countries, neutral
countries, like Austria and Finland, or Afghanistan
then, Japan, northern India and so forth—a
total of 600 million people.
That was a time, by the way, when the population
of the world was 3 billion.
And that was an underestimate of their casualties—a
hundred Holocausts.
It was very clear that they hadn’t included—I
hadn’t asked, actually, what would Russian
retaliation be against us and against West
Europe.
They were thought, at that time—wrongly—to
have hundreds of weapons against the U.S.
But they did have hundreds of weapons against
West Europe, no question.
West Europe would go, under any circumstances.
If we were defending West Europe—Germany,
for example—we were planning to destroy
the continent in order to save it.
Six hundred million, that was a hundred Holocausts.
And when I held the piece of paper in my hand
that had that figure, that they had sent out
unembarrassedly, you know, proudly, to the
president—”Here’s what we will do”—I
thought, “This is the most evil plan that
has ever existed.
It’s insane.”
The weapons, the machinery that will carry
this out, this was no hypothetical plan, like
Herman Kahn might have conceived at the doomsday
machine that he thought up at the RAND Corporation
as my colleague.
This was an actual war plan for how we would
use the existing weapons, many of which I
had seen already that time.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Dan Ellsberg, the colossal
carnage that they were envisioning as a result
of this first-strike use was doubly—made
doubly worse, as you reveal, by the fact that
the image that we have that the president
is the one who holds the switch or has his
hand on the button is not true, that many
people have the capacity to initiate a nuclear
war.
If you could you talk about that, as well?
DANIEL ELLSBERG: To start with, even if it
were only the president, no one man—really,
no one nation—should have the ability—the
ability even—to threaten or to carry out
a hundred Holocausts at his will.
That machinery should never have existed.
And it does exist right now, and every president
has had that power, and this president does
have that power.
But the recent discussions of that, which
emphasize his sole authority to do that, don’t
take account of the fact that he has authority
to delegate.
And he has delegated.
Every president has delegated.
I don’t know the details of what President
Trump has done or since the Cold War.
Every president in the Cold War, right through
Carter and Reagan, had delegated, in fact,
to theater commanders in case communications
were cut off.
That means that the idea that the president
is the only one with sole power to issue an
order that will be recognized as an authentic
authorized order is totally false.
How many fingers are on buttons?
Probably no president has ever really known
the details of that.
I knew, in '61, for example, that Admiral
Harry D. Felt in CINCPAC, commander-in-chief
of Pacific, for whom I worked as a researcher,
had delegated that to 7th Fleet, down to various
commanders, and they, in turn, had delegated
down to people.
So when you say, “How many altogether feel
authorized?”
if their communications are cut off—and
that happened part of every day in the Pacific
when I was there—communications got better,
but the delegations never changed.
There's—we’ve never allowed it to be possible
that an enemy could paralyze our retaliation
by hitting our president or our command and
control.
And neither did the Russians.
When President Carter and then President Reagan
advertised the fact that their plans emphasized
decapitation, hitting Moscow, above all, which
the French and British always planned to do,
by the way, with their smaller forces—and
when that became clear, the Russians instituted
what they called a dead hand, a perimeter
system, in Russian, which assured that if
Moscow was destroyed, other commanders would
have the power and would be told to launch
their strikes.
There was even a plan to do that automatically
by computer, as a number of our military always
recommended, to make the whole thing computerized,
as in the doomsday machine of Herman Kahn
and Stanley Kubrick.
But, generally, they allow for lower-level
majors, colonels to decide, “The time has
come.
We’ve lost our commanders.
The time has come to go.”
That’s almost certainly true in North Korea
right now.
AMY GOODMAN: So, when you heard about President
Trump having that meeting with the joint chiefs
of staff in the summertime, the one where
allegedly—I mean, Rex Tillerson has not
confirmed or denied this—he called the president
an “F—ing moron,” that apparently was
in response to Trump asking three times in
that meeting, “If we have nuclear weapons,
why don’t we use them?”
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Well, he had asked that,
allegedly, according to Joe Scarborough and
others, to people during the campaign a year
earlier.
And an answer to that, of course, is he will
use them.
And he is using them right now.
It’s not a question of whether the president
might use them.
He’s using them the way you use a gun when
you point it at somebody in a confrontation,
whether or not you pull the trigger.
And both Trump and Kim are using their weapons
in that encounter right now, as many presidents
have done, as I discovered later—as there’s
a chapter in the book of a couple dozen, perhaps
three dozen cases, mostly in secret, where
presidents have actually pointed the gun,
aside from wearing it ostentatiously on their
hip at all times, as in NATO.
I think the—one of our commanders just said,
“Oh, we use the weapons every day, every
hour of the day,” which is true.
We use them on the hip.
But at the moment, they’re being pointed.
And they’re being pointed by two people
who are giving very good imitations of being
crazy.
That’s dangerous.
I hope they’re pretending.
They might be pretending.
But to pretend to be crazy with nuclear weapons
is not a safe game.
It’s a game of chicken.
Nuclear chicken.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, this is an excerpt of
President Kennedy’s address to the nation
at the time of the Cuban missile crisis, perhaps
the closest the United States has ever come
to nuclear war.
PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY: Good evening, my
fellow citizens.
This government, as promised, has maintained
the closest surveillance of the Soviet military
buildup on the island of Cuba.
Within the past week, unmistakable evidence
has established the fact that a series of
offensive missile sites is now in preparation
on that imprisoned island.
The purpose of these bases can be none other
than to provide a nuclear strike capability
against the Western Hemisphere.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that was President Kennedy.
Can you talk about your own experience of
the Cuban missile crisis in October of 1962?
Talk about what you were doing.
This is before you released the Pentagon Papers
years later.
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Yeah.
I listened to the president on October 22nd,
I remember, announcing that there were missiles
in Cuba, and I called up my friend, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense Harry Rowen,
later president of RAND, and asked, “Do
you need some help out there?”
And he said, “Get on the next plane,”
which I did.
I flew out to Washington, then, the next morning,
early, got into the Pentagon, the day, actually,
that the blockade was instituted—no, the
day before, actually—and was given the task,
for example, since I was a command-and-control
specialist, of—that’s how I got into nuclear
planning—what can the Russians do with 30-some
missiles on Cuba?
Well, they can hit Moscow—I’m sorry, they
can hit Washington.
They can hit Washington, which is what our
joint chiefs would do.
And they could hit various other places.
And that, I knew, would not paralyze our response.
It would only make it quickly carried out
against all the cities in Russia and China
and so forth.
It would do them no good, but that’s probably
what they would do, and so forth.
I worked during that week.
Some nights I slept in the office of president—of,
sorry, Assistant Secretary of Defense Paul
Nitze, and on a couch in his office, while
we were—I was on several task forces, working
for the Executive Committee, EXCOMM, of the
National Security Council.
Now, the next year I spent studying a great
deal on that crisis, with higher than top-secret
access, on the whole.
And yet, I didn’t learn many of the things
that are most important about that crisis,
which have taken decades and decades to come
out of secrecy.
For one thing, I’ve concluded, contrary
to what I thought at the time, that both President
Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev were determined
not to carry out the threats they were making
of armed conflict—compared to the North
Korean crisis right now.
Imagine that both sides have decided they
are absolutely not going to armed conflict,
they’re only gesturing and breast-beating
and trying to get the other side of back down.
That’s what was happening in the Cuban missile
crisis.
And yet, to make the threats credible, Khrushchev
was maneuvering submarines within the range
of our forces, armed with nuclear torpedoes
we didn’t know they had at all.
And they were subject to mock depth charges
to bring them to the surface, with our Navy
not knowing that they were facing submarines
that could blow them all out of the water.
Kennedy, on the other hand, was moving troops,
exactly like those exercises.
As a matter of fact, we had done exercises,
just before the crisis broke, of invading
Cuba—not named Cuba.
The enemy they were against was announced
in the papers as Ortsac, which, as Khrushchev
inferred, cleverly, was Castro spelled backwards,
said, “Yes, that was a game we used to play
when I was a kid,” said Khrushchev.
So, here we were threatening to invade Cuba.
It was not a way to keep the Cubans from acquiring
a deterrent force, just as our exercises of
invading North Korea, going on right now,
essentially, don’t seem a very well-chosen
way to get Kim Jong-un to give up his deterrent
capability in the—in North Korea.
But that’s what we were doing.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: But you say in the book also—
DANIEL ELLSBERG: The other thing I learned
was that in the course of these maneuvers,
we came within a hair’s breadth of blowing
the world up, of having the plans I’ve just
described go into action.
A nuclear submarine—I should say, a submarine
that was armed with nuclear torpedoes had
the two top commanders, who thought they were
being—going to go down, actually, as a result
of these mock depth charges that were actually
meant to force them to the surface.
The commander, Savitsky, ordered the nuclear
torpedo armed and ready for action against
the destroyers or the cruiser.
The second-in-command, whose assent was needed,
agreed with him.
And they were ready to go.
It happened that a commodore of several submarines
in the area was on that sub rather than some
other one.
It could have been one of the others, but
he was there.
And since he was the commodore, his assent
was also needed.
And he said no.
And thanks to that man, Vasili Arkhipov, we
didn’t blow a cruiser out of the water and
cause the nuclear explosion that Kennedy had
already announced would cause an all-out attack
on the Soviet Union.
That’s why we’re still here.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: And you said that you only
learned years later that Khrushchev himself
had, again, delegated authority to these folks
to start a war?
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Some of the things we learned
relatively recently, in the '90s, and confirmed
just in this century, were that Khrushchev
had not only managed to get nuclear warheads
to the medium-range missiles that he had put
in Cuba—which, by the way, were the exact
counterpart of what Kim Jong-un is trying
to do now.
Khrushchev had decided that his ability to
destroy our allies directly, with his medium-range
missiles in Europe, which we could not find
and destroy, MEL mobile [inaudible]—he could
kill a hundred million and more in Europe.
That didn't seem to be fazing us in Berlin.
It wasn’t getting us out of Berlin.
It wasn’t getting us determined to keep
access to Berlin, even though doing that would
force us to go to tactical nuclear war.
So he said, “I have to have missiles in
range of the U.S.”
And so he moved missiles to Cuba, medium-range
missiles that would be in range of the U.S.
Kim does not have a Cuba now to put—and
probably couldn’t anyway, in the case of
Cuba—so he’s building ICBMs that can reach
the U.S., even though he can already destroy
entirely our ally in South Korea and in Japan.
So he’s doing what Khrushchev did in—and
it’s dangerous, as it was for Cuba for Khrushchev
at that time.
OK, moreover, we had no idea at that time,
though it was the most surveilled island in
the history of the world—U-2s and satellites
were flying over it, and even low-level reconnaissance
planes, that managed not to discover that
he had put tactical nuclear weapons, short-range
weapons, in Cuba.
We didn’t know they were there.
And moreover, he had done what we thought
was unthinkable for a Russian dictator who
wanted central control of everything: He and
his presidium had delegated the use of those
weapons against our invasion fleet to the
local commanders.
Now, that’s almost necessary tactically.
You can’t wait on Moscow if an invasion
fleet is coming at you.
But we didn’t think he would ever do that.
His theory was—Khrushchev—and Khrushchev
was a very smart man, actually.
And his theory was, and the presidium’s
theory, they can’t reach Miami.
These are only tactical missiles, short-range
missiles.
They can only blow the invasion fleet out
of the water, kill 100,000 Americans, and
let it stop there.
It won’t escalate further.
When McNamara learned that 30 years later,
he said, “That’s insane.
To think that we could lose 100,000 men and
not go to all-out war against the Soviet Union?”
And it was insane.
Kim Jong-un seems to have a very similar belief,
that he could initiate war against our forces
in South Korea and keep it limited.
That’s insane.
But it’s no more insane than our plan to
initiate nuclear war against Russia, which
would kill nearly everyone in the world.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to go to break,
then come back to our conversation.
We’re talking with Daniel Ellsberg.
Yes, he leaked the Pentagon Papers in 1971,
but his new book is called The Doomsday Machine:
Confessions of a Nuclear War Planner.
And, yes, that is what he did, as well.
He was involved in planning for nuclear war.
Ellsberg reveals he also made copies of top-secret
reports on plans for nuclear war.
Stay with us.
[break]
AMY GOODMAN: “No More Weapons” by Steel
Pulse.
This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Juan González.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: Well, we’re spending the
hour with Daniel Ellsberg, who leaked the
Pentagon Papers in 1971.
His new book is The Doomsday Machine: Confessions
of a Nuclear War Planner.
Ellsberg reveals he also made copies of top-secret
reports on plans for nuclear war.
I want to turn to a clip from the film Dr.
Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying
and Love the Bomb, directed by Stanley Kubrick.
Ellsberg has joked that it could be a documentary.
The black comedy was released in 1964, just
two years after the Cuban missile crisis.
AMY GOODMAN: The film centers on a nuclear
crisis that begins when a U.S. bomber plane
loaded with nuclear weapons is on a routine
flight pattern near the Soviet Union at the
time when it receives orders to carry out
“Wing Attack Plan R.” That’s nuclear
war, from lunatic General Jack D. Ripper,
using the pre-delegated authority given to
him in case of an attack on Washington.
Much of the film takes place in the War Room,
where the president meets his top Pentagon
advisers, who want to proceed with the attack
despite his hesitation.
They hit a snag when the Soviet ambassador
informs them of Russia’s new weapon: a doomsday
machine that will destroy the entire world
if they’re attacked.
So, in this scene from the film, we’re in
the War Room when the president’s adviser,
Dr. Strangelove, is asked to describe the
doomsday machine, based on a study he commissioned
from the so-called BLAND Corporation.
PRESIDENT MERKIN MUFFLEY: [played by Peter
Sellers] But, how is it possible for this
thing to be triggered automatically, and at
the same time impossible to untrigger?
DR.
STRANGELOVE: [played by Peter Sellers] Mr.
President, it is not only possible, it is
essential.
That is the whole idea of this machine, you
know.
Deterrence is the art of producing in the
mind of the enemy the fear to attack.
And so, because of the automated and irrevocable
decision-making process which rules out human
meddling, the doomsday machine is terrifying,
as is simple to understand, and completely
credible and convincing.
GEN.
”BUCK” TURGIDSON: [played by George C.
Scott] Gee, I wish we had one of them doomsday
machines.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s a clip from the 1964
film Dr. Strangelove about the doomsday machine,
which is also the title of our guest Daniel
Ellsberg’s new book, The Doomsday Machine:
Confessions of a Nuclear War Planner.
Your colleague at the BLAND Corp—I mean,
the RAND Corporation is the one who coined
that term?
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Herman Kahn invented that
idea.
And he said, by the way, that it kills so
many people—everyone, actually—that no
one ever would produce such a machine.
He said it doesn’t exist, and it never would
exist.
He said that in 1959 and '60.
He was wrong.
It did exist at that time, and it's existed
ever since.
We didn’t know that for another 20 years.
We didn’t know that the weapons we had targeted
on all these cities—and, by the way, I tried
to change that under Secretary McNamara.
I said, “Have a withhold option against
all the cities here.
You know, why are you killing the cities here
in—either in retaliation or, least of all,
in a first strike?
Which would force them or, you know, which
would cause them, certainly, to hit our cities
inevitably, which they probably will do anyway.
But this gives them no incentive to refrain
from our cities, whatever.
Why are we hitting Moscow?
How do you possibly ever get the war stopped?
How can you possibly get it limited?
How could they surrender or the war end in
any way, if you’ve hit their central command?”
And that seemed to make some sense, and there
was a withhold option against that—never
implemented.
When Cheney came in, years later, he was amazed
to discover how many weapons were still targeted
on Moscow.
And we’re talking about hundreds here, which
seemed crazy to me.
Anyway, the system, however, as I’ve already
said, they knew—they did plan that they
were going to kill—I said 600 million, but
actually they weren’t including the effects
of fire.
They never have, because it’s too incalculable
in the weather and the inflammable materials
and so forth.
Actually, that’s the biggest effect of thermonuclear
weapons.
So the number would really have been, at that
time, well over a billion, plus the Soviet
retaliation against Europe.
So we’re talking about over a billion people,
a third of the Earth’s population at that
time.
And I’ve actually heard Edward Teller, one
of the sources of Dr. Strangelove, the fictional
Dr. Strangelove, the father of the H-bomb,
Teller, say, “At most, thermonuclear weapons
could cause the deaths of one-third of the
population,” very close to what the joint
chiefs had said.
I thought of that as the glass two-thirds
full, when I heard him say that.
But the fact is, he was wrong.
And Kahn was wrong.
Nobody’s perfect.
In fact, it would be three-thirds.
The fact is that the weapons on these cities,
which continued always, despite the supposed
withholding option, to be targeted on military
targets in the cities—the cities would burn
nevertheless.
And not only would there be fire, that were
not in the calculations, there would be smoke,
surprise.
And the firestorms that would be caused by
these simultaneous widespread fires, as in
the Tokyo firestorm of March 9th and 10th,
1945—there were only three so-called firestorms
in World War II—Hamburg, Dresden and Tokyo—where
the fires were so widespread that they caused
a column of air to rise abruptly very high
into the stratosphere.
And what had not been calculated before, 'til
1983, was that the millions and millions,
possibly 100 million, tons of smoke and black
soot would be lofted into the stratosphere,
where it would not be rained out ever, and
it would spread quickly around the world,
causing a blanket that would destroy—or,
rather, absorb—most of the sunlight from
reaching the Earth, 70 percent of the sunlight,
killing all the harvests worldwide and preventing
any vegetation, starving everyone on Earth,
essentially—nearly everyone, let me correct
that.
Carl Sagan, when he first was reporting this
in 1983, more than a third of a century ago,
said extinction was possible.
The latest calculations show, no, extinction
is very unlikely.
We're so adaptable, we can live in the tip
of New Zealand eating mollusks, some millions
of people.
But 98 or 99 percent of the people will go
near extinction—close enough to be called
a doomsday machine.
And that is what both U.S. and Russia have
still on hair triggers, with the delegation,
with launch on warning, with ICBMs on both
sides that are vulnerable to attack by the
other, and therefore have the incentive to
use them or lose them if there’s warning
of an attack on the way.
Now, false warnings have occurred on both
sides repeatedly and gone into several minutes.
In 1995, years after the—seven years after
the Cold War was over, Premier Yeltsin—for
the first time, either side—was shown his
briefcase and the buttons that he would push
to launch nuclear war, because of what was
in fact a Norwegian weather rocket that was
mistaken for a rocket that might be headed
at Moscow for decapitation.
And he hesitated, Yeltsin, at that time, long
enough that the missile would have arrived.
And they decided it was a false alarm.
If he had not, we wouldn’t be here, because
the nuclear winter resulting from the attack
on one side, or both, would have produced
smoke that long ago would have starved us
and nearly everyone else on Earth.
JUAN GONZÁLEZ: So, when you hear the news
accounts now of the threats of North Korea
and the response of the president, that he
will rain fire and fury on the Korean Peninsula,
what’s your reaction to the nature of the
debate now?
Because I would think that back in the ’80s
the public consciousness of nuclear winter,
of the dangers of nuclear weapons, seemed
a lot greater throughout the United States
than it is today.
DANIEL ELLSBERG: Well, these are the first
threats that any American president—and
American presidents have made many nuclear
threats, as we said earlier, in the past.
These were the first ones since the Cuban
missile crisis, more than half a century ago,
against a nuclear weapon state.
Harry Truman made nuclear threats 67 years
ago against North Korea, but North Korea wasn’t
a nuclear state then.
And by the way, we didn’t need nuclear weapons
to bring fire and fury like the world had
never seen, except in Tokyo and Dresden and
Hamburg.
We burned North Korea to the ground without
using nuclear weapons at that time, left not
a stick of man-made structure left standing
in North Korea.
So they all remember that if they’re President
Trump’s age or older, actually.
He was four at the time.
But that was indelible memory.
They can believe we would do that.
But now they have nuclear weapons.
If they were smart, they wouldn’t send them
back at us, because that would be sheer suicide
for them.
Every man, woman and child in North Korea,
as he’s implied, would be killed.
Should we count that they won’t do that,
that they won’t retaliate to our strike?
No.
He’s not going to take his nuclear weapons
entirely out of Korea as we have these exercises.
He thinks he would be crazy to do that.
It would be suicidal.
And that’s not the kind of crazy he is.
The kind he is is the kind we are, which is
nuclear weapons are to be met, or even preempted,
with nuclear weapons, that striking first
is better than striking second, and striking
second is better than not striking at all.
It’s crazy, but we’ve shown that kind
of craziness for 70 years.
AMY GOODMAN: You have called for whistleblowers
to come forward.
I wanted to play a clip of—well, you have
said that the Army whistleblower Chelsea Manning,
who is now out of jail, who spent seven years
behind bars and leaked more than 700,000 classified
files and videos to WikiLeaks about U.S. foreign
policy and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Manning had been sentenced to 35 years in
prison in 2013, after she was convicted under
the World War I-era Espionage Act.
In January, President Obama commuted her sentence
shortly before leaving office.
She was the longest-held whistleblower in
U.S. history.
After her release, Manning spoke with ABC
News about her decision to become a whistleblower.
CHELSEA MANNING: I’m getting all this information,
and it’s just death, destruction, mayhem.
And eventually you just stop—I stopped seeing
just statistics and information, and I started
seeing people.
JUJU CHANG: There are those who say you may
have been motivated to get the information
into the public sphere, but you might also
have given it to our enemies.
CHELSEA MANNING: Right, but I have a responsibility
to the public.
