AMY GOODMAN: This is Democracy Now!
I’m Amy Goodman, with Nermeen Shaikh.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: As the #MeToo movement has
inspired women around the world to come forward
with their stories of sexual harassment, abuse
and assault, we turn now to a remarkable new
film that is a narrative memoir about a woman’s
own reckoning with childhood sexual abuse.
It’s directed by the woman who experienced
the abuse: Jennifer Fox.
It premieres May 26th on HBO.
This is the film’s trailer.
JENNIFER: [played by Laura Dern] The story
you are about to see is true—as far as I
know.
When I a was a child, I was obsessed with
changing myself.
And I don’t even remember who I used to
be.
NETTIE: [played by Ellen Burstyn] Jennifer,
sweetheart, I found a story that you wrote
in English class.
JENNIFER: Where did you find it?
NETTIE: What matters is what it says.
JENNY: [played by Isabelle Nélisse] I’ve
met two very special people.
MRS.
G: [played by Elizabeth Debicki] That is an
excellent coat.
BILL: [played by Jason Ritter] Jenny, do you
trust me?
JENNY: Mrs. G was the most beautiful woman
I had ever met.
MRS.
G: There are no bad horses, only bad riders.
JENNIFER: I need to talk about it with someone
who was there.
Hello, Mrs. G.
OLDER MRS.
G: [played by Frances Conroy] Let’s get
you up in the saddle, see what you can do.
JENNIFER: Help me remember them.
Why can’t I remember myself?
NETTIE: You were an unusual child.
BILL: Strong body, strong mind.
JENNY: Strong body, strong mind.
JENNIFER: I found some pictures from that
summer.
MRS.
G: You’re so special.
OLDER MRS.
G: You know I have a lot of regrets.
MARTIN: [played by Common] You talked about
the relationship, but this is a grown man.
JENNIFER: This was important to me.
Why are you so angry?
NETTIE: Why are you not angry?
BILL: You must push yourself beyond all boundaries.
MRS.
G: Don’t tell anyone.
It’s our secret.
JENNIFER: I just need to know what happened.
I’m trying to figure out why.
OLDER BILL: [played by John Heard] You deceived
yourself.
JENNIFER: Why are you telling this story,
Jenny?
JENNY: It’s my life!
Mine!
JENNIFER: You don’t know what’s about
to happen.
AMY GOODMAN: The Tale premiered this year
at the Sundance Film Festival.
The film’s stars include Laura Dern, Ellen
Burstyn, Jason Ritter and Common.
The film received rave reviews, with The Guardian
calling it a “stunning sexual abuse drama”
and “the mother of all #MeToo movies.”
We’re joined now by Jennifer Fox, director
of The Tale.
This is a narrative memoir about her own childhood
sexual abuse.
It premieres May 26th on HBO.
This is just an astounding film, Jennifer.
And the fact that—I mean, it’s so unusual,
because it’s a narrative, dramatic film,
played by actors, but, for example, Laura
Dern, the star, is playing you, Jennifer Fox,
and you bravely use your own name in it.
Talk about the making of this film.
JENNIFER FOX: Well, I decided to keep my name
in it, precisely to be able to stand up and
say this is a true story.
So, for everybody who says sexual abuse doesn’t
look like this, or memory doesn’t function
like this, I can say, “No, this is true,
because it happened to me.”
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, the film originated,
as the film shows, with a story that you had
written as a child, shortly following the
traumatic episodes that you then document.
And the teacher who read your story at the
time that it was written, quote, on the back
of it, when you received it as a child, “If
this is true, it’s a travesty.
But since you are so well adjusted, it can’t
be true.”
So could you talk about the response that
you received then and how you reflected on
that so many years later when you went back
to this episode?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, I think, even as a child,
I was writing a story in order to make sense
of an event that was very complicated, very
nuanced and confusing to me.
However, I didn’t see it as traumatic as
a child.
For me, it was my “first relationship.”
And here was a story I wrote.
I mean, it was 1973.
And frankly, to be fair to the teacher and
everyone around me, they simply weren’t
looking for child sexual abuse back then.
AMY GOODMAN: So tell us your story.
JENNIFER FOX: What happened was, you know,
I was a precocious kid, but very young-looking.
I looked like—I was 13, but I probably looked
like a 9-year-old boy—no breasts, no hips,
nothing.
And I was a rider, and I went to my teacher’s
home for the summer.
And we had like a riding camp.
And there, she introduced me to her coach,
who was named Bill, very famous athlete.
And I became his student, as well.
In the fall, things progressed, and I began
to stay at his house overnight on the weekends.
AMY GOODMAN: There is this chilling moment
in the film—it happens early on—when you—well,
Laura Dern, she’s playing you—
JENNIFER FOX: Yeah.
AMY GOODMAN: —is flipping through an old
photo album, and she lands on a picture of
herself, of yourself, at 13.
Her mother corrects her.
She says, “That’s you at 15.
Here you are at 13.”
And the difference is unbelievable.
You say, “I was so little.”
And in the film, you start with an older actress,
and you switch then to a child.
Explain.
JENNIFER FOX: Well, the film is very much
about memory and the stories we tell ourselves
to survive.
And so, what I was really looking at is how
we all, as teenagers, think we can tolerate
anything, and we’re strong, we’re tough.
We think we’re more mature.
And as a filmmaker, I was trying to show that
I thought I was capable of handling anything,
but, in fact, I was a little kid.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, one of the many
things, the truly exceptional qualities of
this film, is that it documents in cinematic
form what’s almost impossible to document,
and that is the coming into being of unconscious
memories.
The quote, as you’ve said yourself, “the
unraveling of denial.”
How did the making of the film itself allow
this unraveling of denial to take place, and
your recognition, because you always recalled
the event, but you didn’t recall it as traumatic?
How did that occur to you?
How did that recognition come to you?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, frankly, my whole life,
up until I was 45, I called this a “relationship.”
And it wasn’t until I was making a film
about women around the world, a documentary,
that I began to see and hear stories that
sounded just like this relationship I had,
except for they were sexual abuse.
So it had a paradigm that I recognized, and
suddenly there was a light in my head that
just went, “Oh, my god, I have only been
telling myself one half of the story, and
the other half of the story is actually quite
darker.”
But when I was younger, I couldn’t tolerate
that memory.
So, it’s not that I forgot it.
I just preferenced the good.
And I think memory is very, very protective.
And we have to allow it to be so, because
sometimes, in fact, you need to protect yourself
from trauma that’s intolerable.
AMY GOODMAN: Let me turn to a clip from your
film, The Tale.
This is a scene between Jennifer Fox, played
by Laura Dern, and her mother, played by Ellen
Burstyn.
JENNIFER: [played by Laura Dern] Oh, oh.
Hey.
NETTIE: [played by Ellen Burstyn] Good morning.
JENNIFER: Thanks, Mom.
Oh, my god, I fell asleep.
NETTIE: Well, that’s a good look for you.
JENNIFER: Trashed.
Oh, my god, I’m just locked in.
I can’t—I can’t turn it off right now.
Do you think Bill and Mrs. G paid extra attention
to me because Dad was like a big developer
back then?
NETTIE: No.
It didn’t have anything to do with it.
It was because you were an unusual child,
and you knew how to talk to adults.
JENNIFER: I was thinking about the first time
that you met him, you know, when he came here
to pick me up.
NETTIE: Oh, I’ll never forget that day.
You kidding?
All my antennae went off.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s Ellen Burstyn playing
your mom, saying, “All my antennae went
off.”
So explain what happened when this Bill came
to pick you up.
And this, of course, also goes to the awareness
of mothers, fathers, parents, family members.
What happened on that day?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, this was already in the
fall, after I had known he and Mrs. B all
summer.
And we had set up that he was going to take
me out to an event with his college students.
And he brought my mom flowers and my dad a
gift.
And she just—she had never met him, actually.
And she just, inside herself, was like, “What’s
going on here?
This is what happens when boys are courting
girls.”
AMY GOODMAN: They bring gifts to their parents.
JENNIFER FOX: Exactly.
And yet, she was so taken aback that she didn’t
stop me from leaving the house with him.
And, in fact, we went on this “date.”
But she did tell my father.
And my father still didn’t really get what
was going on.
And he was like, “You’re being hysterical.
This is a great man.
You should be happy that he’s giving all
this attention to your daughter.”
Now, remember, again, it was 1973, and parents
were not thinking, you know, child sexual
abuse.
So it took a while for it to trickle down
in my family.
But, meanwhile, the affair was going on.
AMY GOODMAN: I want to be very clear here.
You say your father said, “This is a great
man.”
He’s a famous guy.
JENNIFER FOX: He’s very famous.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And also—
AMY GOODMAN: This athlete.
JENNIFER FOX: This athlete, yeah, and a coach.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: And he’s almost 40 years
old, and you’re 13.
AMY GOODMAN: He has a wing named after him
at a university?
JENNIFER FOX: Yes, he does.
AMY GOODMAN: And yet, you have so bravely
named yourself, which puts you in a vulnerable
position.
You’ve chosen not to out him.
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: Why?
JENNIFER FOX: Well, for me, this whole film
and story is not about getting a person, who,
by the way, is old and at the end of his life,
so it wouldn’t mean much.
It’s really about changing the conversation
about child sexual abuse and memory, and showing
just how complicated and messy and nuanced
it is, and taking it out of this taboo box
that we’ve had it in, where the perpetrator
is evil and the child is this lily-white child.
Instead, perpetrators are, you know, esteemed
people in the community.
They seem like nice men.
They’re not visible.
And kids often actually can feel love for
someone who hurts them.
And that’s what makes it so complicated.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I want to go back to
something that you were saying earlier, that
trauma is intolerable, so, in other words,
one can only bear what one can bear—
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: —which is why one puts a
different kind of spin on the story.
You also spoke about a documentary on women
that you were working on that somehow gave
you a kind of epiphany.
So, when you were speaking to these women,
did you get a sense that they had a similar
experience—in other words, they also had
repressed the worst part of their memories
about sexual abuse?
JENNIFER FOX: Everyone was different.
I mean, some of them were highly, highly traumatized,
and it really shadowed their entire life.
And other people were like me, and you would
never know, and they were highly functioning.
So, I mean, abuse affects everyone differently,
and they deal with it differently.
But, frankly, there are many, many women—and
men—walking around that you would never
know have a history of child sexual abuse,
because most of us are not crying in the corner.
AMY GOODMAN: So, you grow up, and in this
film, The Tale, Laura Dern, filmmaker herself,
showing these films, looking at women who
are talking about sexual abuse, is also coming
to terms with her mother finding this essay,
and it’s bringing so much in her, and you’re
investigating back what actually took place.
And you have a partner.
That partner is played by Common.
This is a clip from The Tale, when Jennifer
Fox, played by Laura Dern, has an argument
with her supportive fiancé, yes, played by
Common.
JENNIFER: [played by Laura Dern] This was
important to me, and I’m trying to figure
out why, OK?
These people were important to me.
MARTIN: [played by Common] People—who are
these people?
Like, I saw a letter from a woman.
Who was that?
JENNIFER: That was my riding teacher.
She introduced him to me, you know?
And she was there that summer.
That’s why I went to see her.
MARTIN: But you—
JENNIFER: I’m trying to figure it out.
MARTIN: Why do you want to find him, when
you’re the victim?
Look, I’m not saying that to—
JENNIFER: OK, I am not a victim.
I don’t need you or anybody to call me a
victim, OK?
Because you don’t have a [bleep] clue about
my life.
So we need to stop this now.
AMY GOODMAN: That’s from this astounding
film called The Tale, that is going to play
on HBO starting this weekend.
Now I want to turn to a Q&A after a recent
screening of the film.
This is Common, the actor, reflecting on his
role.
COMMON: One thing I liked about Martin, he
wasn’t like just backing down and just like—you
couldn’t just kick him over.
But he cared, but he tried to, you know, give
her everything, give, you know, Jennifer everything
that he could that he thought could be healing
towards her and supporting towards her.
And I thought it was important to see a man
in that way, because, you know, obviously,
the other side of men that we see in the film
is not good.
You know, and so—and it’s something when
you have somebody going through something
in your life, you know, whether it is something
as traumatic as this or something even less,
you just try to figure out how can you support
them, how you can be the best.
And then, like one thing that Martin said,
which goes back to like what I’m saying
about learning more and more, it’s like,
at a certain point he said, “Man, have you
seen a therapist?”
You know, because we can’t—as loved ones,
we can’t always do all—like, we can’t
give them all the healing that they may need.
They may need professional.
Most of us do.
And I think, you know, that discussion is
something that I was grateful like that Martin
put that out there, but now, even more, especially,
you know, coming from the communities of color.
We don’t talk about mental wellness as much.
We don’t talk about therapy.
And a lot of men don’t do it, either.
So, the fact that we had that aspect in the
character, I really loved.
And, you know, I just loved that he was a
loving human being and trying to support,
and didn’t know everything, but he tried
to give it his all.
AMY GOODMAN: So, that is Common raising two
points about this film.
One is to show there is another kind of man,
outside of the sexual abuser, you might say
“rapist.”
You’ve chosen not to say “rapist” at
this point.
You were 13, he was 40.
And the other is the issue of therapy.
And he’s talking about in communities of
color.
JENNIFER FOX: I mean, two things.
First of all, language matters.
I just want to point out the word “rapist”
versus “sexual abuse.”
Sexual abuse has a very specific paradigm,
that takes time, that is about the manipulation
of an adult and a child.
It is not using violence to get the end means.
And that’s why don’t use the word “rape.”
And I think we have to be very specific with
language here.
In terms of the good man, I think we really
do need men like Martin, who actually represents
my true boyfriend, now husband, who can tolerate
a woman going through something very, very
difficult, and not fly off the handle and
not leave her.
And that’s the character Common is playing.
In the film, Jennifer, Laura Dern, played
by—playing me, says, you know, “I don’t
want to do therapy.”
That is just at the moment.
In fact, she’s using this investigation
to try to figure out something in her life,
like how and why this happened.
She always remembered it.
But why me?
In reality, I’ve done a lot of therapy,
and I believe in therapy and think it’s
really helpful for many, many things, to help
support your life.
So I’m a big believer in therapy.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: Well, I mean, the film is
really a testament not only, and most obviously,
to your courage, but also your remarkable
ingenuity and artistry in envisioning and
creating the experience of the past living
alongside the present, as you do with your
adult self speaking with your child self.
One of the things that you said earlier is
that you were trying to give in this film,
which you did very successfully, a more complex
understanding of child sexual abuse, both
because the child often feels love and attachment
for her abuser and also that perpetrators
can’t simply be viewed as these horrible,
obviously identifiable, terrible men.
Now, given that, it’s even more striking
that you, as a 13-year-old, made the decision
to stop seeing this person, and you told him
explicitly.
That’s a highly extraordinary and unusual
decision for the victim or survivor of child
sexual abuse to do.
How did you do that?
JENNIFER FOX: You know, frankly, in retrospect,
despite the fact that I felt invisible in
my family and there was lots of chaos—I’m
one of five kids—I come from a very loving
family with a lot of support.
And probably it’s that I had so much support
and ego strength to be able to say, “OK,
this has gone too far.
I’m going to say no.”
And I also knew, after I broke up with him
and during it, that if I wiggled my little
finger, my parents would have prosecuted.
It’s actually—the irony of it is, I was
denying to my parents and lying through my
teeth that anything was going on.
AMY GOODMAN: Before we end, I want to go to
a point in the film you make in the film,
with a kind of warning or statement on the
film, that says that at no point was there
a child in a sexual interaction with the actor—
JENNIFER FOX: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: —even with—between Bill and
your child self.
Explain how you filmed this.
Isabelle Nélisse was the young actress.
JENNIFER FOX: Sure.
I mean, there was enormous amount of precautions
to make sure she was not traumatized by the
experience.
And, in fact, Bill, played by—amazingly,
by Jason Ritter, who’s an extraordinary
actor, was working with a body double who
was 22.
And Isabelle was—we filmed, you know, days
after, standing up behind a bed, on a vertical
bed, and her hair splayed out with hairspray.
And basically, I was just rolling through
nonsexual cues with her, like act like a bee
stung you, act like you’re being chased
by a dog, act like you’re eating something
sour.
And she was just talking to me.
And that was intercut, with film magic, with
shots of Jason looking at the body double.
AMY GOODMAN: Her mother in the room at the
time.
JENNIFER FOX: Her mother, a therapist, a Screen
Actors Guild representative, the whole cast
and rest of the crew watching and listening
to us.
NERMEEN SHAIKH: I mean, one of the—very
briefly, before we end—that the gift that
you’ve given to your audiences is to know
the past is important, but it’s not necessarily
defining.
JENNIFER FOX: Absolutely.
I mean, the thing is, we all live with past
and present.
It’s what you make of it.
And it’s how you see the events that happen
to you and how you choose to survive.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re going to do Part 2 of
this discussion, and we’re going to post
it online at democracynow.org.
Jennifer Fox is writer and director of The
Tale, a narrative memoir about her own reckoning
with childhood sexual abuse.
It premieres on HBO on Saturday, on May 26.
That does it for our show.
A happy birthday to Mike DiFilippo and a belated
birthday to Denis Moynihan.
