AMY GOODMAN: The Yara Allen Justice Choir,
singing Saturday in Washington, D.C., joining
thousands who rallied and marched on the Capitol
for the Poor People’s Campaign, the mass
demonstration following six weeks of actions
around the country and more than, well, 2,500
to 3,000 arrests, as protesters joined what
they’re calling a “moral revival” to
demand an end to systematic racism, poverty,
the war economy and ecological devastation.
The march brought together activists from
around the country, more than 50 years after
demonstrators converged in Washington in 1968,
to take up the cause that Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King had been fighting for when he
was assassinated April 4th, 1968: the original
Poor People’s Campaign.
Just over a week after her husband’s memorial
service, Coretta Scott King led a march to
demand an Economic Bill of Rights that included
a guaranteed basic income, full employment
and more low-income housing.
Half a century later, the Reverend Dr. William
Barber and Reverend Dr. Liz Theoharis led
the new Poor People’s Campaign in a march
uniting low-wage workers, clergy, community
activists, even some activists who marched
in the original Poor People’s Campaign 50
years ago.
The demonstrators rallied to protest widespread
poverty, just days after the U.S. ambassador
to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, slammed
a new U.N. report slamming the Trump administration’s
policies for worsening the state of poverty
in the United States.
The report details how 40 million Americans
live in extreme poverty, 18-and-a-half—live
in poverty; 18-and-a-half million Americans
live in extreme poverty.
Nikki Haley said last week, “It is patently
ridiculous for the United Nations to examine
poverty in America,” this as she pulled
the United States out of the U.N. Human Rights
Council.
Well, organizers say the Poor People’s Campaign
has been the most expansive wave of nonviolent
direct action in the U.S. this century, with
well over 2,000 arrests.
We turn now to voices from Saturday’s Poor
People’s Campaign rally.
REV.
MARK THOMPSON: Please welcome the Reverend
Dr. Liz Theoharis and the Reverend Dr. William
J. Barber.
REV.
LIZ THEOHARIS: We are a powerful group of
poor people and moral leaders and activists
and organizers and freedom fighters.
And 40 days ago, on Mother’s Day, we launched
this campaign.
Our work has only just begun, 'cause over
the past 40 days people of all races, colors
and creeds have joined together to engage
in nonviolent moral fusion direct action to
demand that we lift all families up, we lift
all people up.
We don't break them apart.
It is unjust, immoral and unnecessary to have
millions of poor people in this land.
It is unjust, immoral and unnecessary that
we have children warehoused across this country
because of their immigration status, because
of their homelessness, because their families
had no access to water.
We need a Poor People’s Campaign.
So we are building one.
REV.
WILLIAM BARBER II: We gather today for a call
to action.
We gather here declaring it’s time for a
moral uprising all across America.
We are in the same moral tradition of the
prophets of Israel, who challenged kings and
rulers to stop legislating evil.
We are in the same moral tradition of Jesus,
whose evangelical work was not being against
gay people, but being against poverty.
We are in the same moral tradition of the
Apache and other indigenous spiritual people,
who taught us to care and not destroy and
poison the air, water and the land.
We are in the same moral tradition of the
abolitionists, who knew, if slavery was legal,
it was still immoral, and it had to be challenged.
We are in the same moral tradition of the
reconstructionists, who, after the Civil War,
fought for equal protection under the law.
We are in the same moral tradition as the
social gospel movement, who looked at poverty
and corporate greed and asked, “What would
Jesus do?”
We are in the same moral tradition of those
who fought for labor unions and decent wages
and 8-hour workdays, even when they were killed
and hung in places like Chicago.
We are in the same moral tradition as Cesar
Chavez and MLK and Rabbi Heschel and Fannie
Lou Hamer and Schwerner, Chaney and Goodman
and Rosa Parks and Unitarians and Muslims
like Malcolm and gay people and social justice
activists like Bayard Rustin.
We stand in the same moral tradition that
have always fought to help this nation be
a little more, a little more grounded in love,
truth and peace, and to come a little closer
to being a more perfect union.
This is who we are.
Make no mistake, America.
You’ve got to get a new lexicon for this.
You won’t be able to report this like you’ve
normally reported it.
We are black.
We are white.
We are brown.
We are red.
We are yellow.
We are gay.
We are straight.
We are old.
We are urban.
We are rural.
We are Jewish.
We are Christian.
We are Hindus.
We are Muslim.
We are people of faith.
We are people not of faith.
From Alaska to Alabama, to the Deep South
in Mississippi, to northern Maine, from California
to the Carolinas, from the Midwest, from the
Rust Belt to the Wheat Belt, we are the Poor
People’s Campaign: A National Call for Moral
Revival.
And we won’t be silent anymore!…
And so, today is about the people.
This is a different kind of rally.
We’ve not invited people here today to speak
for the people.
We’ve invited the people to speak for themselves,
because I think it’s time for a revolution.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER 1: Wow!
You guys are beautiful, making me cry, honestly.
But did you know that there are 140 million
people who are poor or low-income in the United
States of America, including over 73 million
women and young girls?
That’s sad.
That’s sad.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER 2: And did you know that
there is 38.2 million children that are poor?
That’s more than 51.9 percent of children
under the age of 18.
TANA: My name is Tana.
I’m from Kentucky, home of the Kentucky
Derby, the Kentucky Wildcats and Kentucky
bourbon.
Well, I’m glad you didn’t cheer too loud,
because I hate to say this: home of Mitch
McConnell, Rand Paul, Hal Rogers.
That’s not a good thing to say, but I got
to say it anyway.
I want to tell you about Appalachia.
It is the oldest and richly diverse environmental
area in terms of plants and animals, in nature
resources, in the natural resources.
Yet this state is the worst poverty rate in
the region in Kentucky, with 25.4 percent
rate in the Appalachia portion versus 18.9
in the rest of the state.
The coal mines are long gone, and the promise
to bring them back is a lie from the pits
of hell.
JAY: Greetings.
I come in front of you today as a biracial,
African-American transgender woman without
healthcare, with serious health issues.
But I stand with you today to tell you that
after earning a bachelor’s degree in history
and political science, after working 30 years
of my life with a good-paying job, I, too,
have been set back.
I have been diagnosed with kidney disease,
stage V. I fell behind in my payments.
I was two months behind, and I made a double
payment.
But they had some grace period law, that they
told me after the fact, so as I lay on my
deathbed, I’m still here, and I will be
fighting to the end!
I want to say thank you for fighting for me.
I want to say thank you for fighting for you.
And I want to say thank you for fighting for
a moral America.
I love you!
REV.
WILLIAM BARBER II: Yeah, yeah, give it up
for Jay!
IRASEMA HERNANDEZ: So, my name is Irasema
Hernandez.
People call me Sema, but you can call me your
sister.
I stand here in solidarity with Kenya from
California.
She is the co-chair of California of California
Poor People’s Campaign.
She could not be here, but she is watching.
She is welcoming a new addition to her family.
I’m here today to talk about what’s being
done to our families, to shine a light on
the atrocities happening to our brothers and
sisters crossing imaginary borders.
I am a daughter of immigrants, immigrant migrant
workers who crossed the border for a better
life.
Instead, it was a life of bondage.
We worked the tomato fields, apple, peach
and orange orchards.
As a little girl, I remember picking tomatoes
with my grandmother as a plane flew over us,
dumping pesticides.
I lived in the shadows in fear for my mother
and my abuelos, that they would be deported,
for much of my life.
Separating families is a practice that has
been done for a very long time to keep us
in control and keep us scared.
The capitalist system is deeply rooted in
white supremacy.
When our brothers and sisters are crossing
imaginary borders, it’s not because they
want to.
It is because they have to, to survive war-torn
countries, economic and ecological devastation
caused by capitalist and white supremacy ideology,
that bombs black and brown nations to exploit
and profit from humanitarian crisis.
We must learn from history to avoid repeating
it.
We must stop families from being separated,
before it happens, not after the fact when
it’s comfortable and convenient to talk
about it.
My brothers and sisters, we can all do something
to help stop these atrocities, by divesting
from the system that contributes to this perpetual
war economy.
Take your money to credit unions, and re-evaluate
your retirement and investment accounts.
Use the capitalist system against it and break
it.
I was born in this country.
I am a citizen.
And still I lived in fear.
I was born into bondage.
We were all born into bondage.
But we can change that right now.
To the people employed by the federal government
just doing their job, do not let the job get
in the way of your humanity.
REV.
WILLIAM BARBER II: Now we want to hear, as
we get ready to march, from our brother who
is a brother who’s an actor, but when he’s
out here, he ain’t acting, he’s the real
deal, none other than Danny Glover.
DANNY GLOVER: Thank you, Reverend Barber.
Thank you for all being here today, this historic
moment here.
I’m here, and I think about the moment when,
whenever Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee showed up
to some place, they’ve always said, “I’m
here today because this is where I’m supposed
to be at.”
We’re here today because this is where we’re
supposed to be at this moment, as we fight
injustice, as we fight on behalf of poor people
in this country and also around the world.
In this way, we remember as ourself our sister
who was assassinated in Brazil, in Rio de
Janeiro, our sister Marielle Franco, who led
through—for LGBTQ people, who are also doing
that.
So we do all of that.
We know that we’re here to be—it goes
beyond this, but we know we have to organize,
organize, organize.
The movement just doesn’t sit right here
in this moment.
The movement we’re building, the way we
change this country is going to be sustained
activism.
And I know that you’re here today, you’re
here tomorrow, and you’re in it to the end,
’til we win.
Thank you.
REV.
WILLIAM BARBER II: Now, we’re going to march.
I hope they don’t try to throw us out the
street, because we’re going in the street.
PROTESTERS: [singing] Ain’t gonna let nobody
turn me around.
I’m gonna keep on walking, keep on talking,
marching up to Freedomland.
Ain’t gonna let no president turn me around,
turn me around, turn me around.
Ain’t gonna let no president turn me around.
I’m going to keep on walking, keep on talking,
marching up to Freedomland.
POLICE OFFICER: So, folks, as you walk through—hold
up, folks.
Reverend Jackson, folks, please hold up.
REV.
JESSE JACKSON: Yeah.
POLICE OFFICER: You are together as a group.
Whether you’re a single-file line or not,
you are breaking off as a group from your
demonstration.
REV.
JESSE JACKSON: Now, wait a minute.
We’re individuals.
POLICE OFFICER: OK, you are still part of
the demonstration.
UNIDENTIFIED: Well, what he’s saying here
is that we’re still going up there to demonstrate
by delivering letters.
That’s considered demonstration.
If we go one at a time, if 20 of us end up
there at the same time, then it’s a demonstration,
and we’re subject to arrest.
That’s what he’s saying.
POLICE OFFICER: That is correct, because you’re
demonstrating without a permit at that time.
AMY GOODMAN: We’re in a scrum right now,
right near the Capitol.
And Jesse Jackson, Reverend Barber, Elizabeth
Theoharis, Danny Glover, Reverend James Forbes,
they’re asking permission to walk one at
a time to deliver boxes of petitions.
Reverend Jackson, what’s happening here?
REV.
JESSE JACKSON: The police are pulling a Border
Patrol stunt on us, stopping us from walking
up to the Capitol.
They say, “If you march individually, it’s
all right.
But as a group, you can’t.”
We’re a group of individuals.
We have the right to march to the Capitol,
a nonviolent protest, with our concerns about
justice and dignity and healthcare and jobs
and wages.
This should not be a threat.
Nor should we be impeded by police action.
This is brutality.
AMY GOODMAN: Reverend Forbes, you’re also
here.
Why are you here today?
REV.
JAMES FORBES: I am here because 50 years ago
Martin Luther King was assassinated.
This is the 50th anniversary.
How did he die?
Working for poor people.
And now heaven—as you know, I don’t talk
about heaven much, even though I’m a preacher—has
declared that in order to show that Martin
Luther King did not shed his blood in vain,
heaven has decreed that dramatic, divine enhancement
of movement is going to take place, in order
to say to King and to Bobby Kennedy, “Ah,
although you shed your blood, the movement
was not killed.
It was not extinguished.”
AMY GOODMAN: Your thoughts, the border, what’s
happening and the separation of children?
You’re—you were the head of Riverside
Church.
REV.
JAMES FORBES: Yes.
AMY GOODMAN: And in New York, something like
700 children who have been separated from
their parents, apparently, are in various
institutions.
The governor or the mayor have not exactly
found out where they are.
REV.
JAMES FORBES: Let’s put it in historic context.
The separation of children, for me, goes back
all the way to the slavery process, by which
the natural way to make slaves and to dehumanize
people was to break their family bonds.
All I can think of: Here it goes again.
Whether or not it is separating by incarceration
on trumped-up charges or trivialized assessment
of criminal penalties, or whether or not it’s
separation on the basis of economics, or whether
it’s separation on the basis of gerrymandering,
or whether it’s separation on border rights,
every time families are torn apart, the fabric
of humanity has been rent.
That’s why I’m saying what’s happening
in Texas is only a kind of, as it were, sort
of snapshot of what is wrong in the body politic
in general.
PROTESTERS: [singing] I’ve got a feeling
everything’s gonna be all right.
AMY GOODMAN: Those last voices, the Reverend
James Forbes, distinguished senior minister
emeritus of the Riverside Church in New York,
and the Reverend Jesse Jackson, who was with
Reverend Dr. King when he was assassinated
April 4th, 1968.
Singing was the Reverend Barber, who, together
with the Reverend Liz Theoharis, have been
leading the new poor people’s movement that
they say has just begun.
In these last six weeks, there have been over
2,500 arrests.
This is Democracy Now!
When we come back, a new film called The King.
Stay with us.
