AMY GOODMAN: Here on Democracy Now!, democracynow.org,
The War and Peace Report.
I'm Amy Goodman as we go to Texas, where Mexican
journalist Emilio Gutiérrez Soto and his
son Oscar have been released from ICE detention
after being jailed for seven months.
Gutiérrez Soto first sought asylum in the
United States in 2008 after receiving death
threats for reporting on alleged corruption
in the Mexican military.
He was detained in December, only weeks after
he criticized U.S. asylum policy during a
speech at the National Press Club.
The federal judge who ordered his release
questioned whether the Trump administration’s
detention of Emilio Gutiérrez Soto and his
son Oscar violated his First Amendment rights.
Well, on Wednesday, I spoke with Emilio Gutiérrez
Soto in El Paso, Texas, and began by asking
him how it feels to be free.
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Well,
thank you for this invitation.
It’s a little weird, having been seven months
and some days at the ICE concentration camp.
We feel a bit unusual.
The way of life in that concentration camp
is extremely harsh.
What the immigration authorities seek is to
finish you off psychologically.
And we’re trying to resume our lives in
liberty, in semi-liberty, practically, because
we continue to be supervised by the immigration
authority—in this case, internal security
through ICE.
AMY GOODMAN: And can you describe the conditions
that you were held in?
Were you held together with Oscar, your son?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Yes,
my son and I, since we entered the concentration
camp, we were always together in the same
facilities.
The conditions in that place are truly denigrating.
Day after day, we need to deal with or confront
security of officers who are hired by a private
company and who lack the basic ethical concepts
when it comes to respecting human rights.
We have had to confront a situation where
there is some presumed food, which was really
practically garbage, in addition to being
enclosed where the barracks within have sanitary
services and the shower, or toilet and shower,
which causes constant contamination when it
comes to internal development or any thought
of pursuing intellectual development or of
any sort of mental reflection in these places.
These are really places in which there is
an effort to totally destroy those who have
the misfortune of reaching those places, destroying
them both psychologically and physically.
AMY GOODMAN: Emilio, can you talk about why
you were jailed in December?
You had just been honored in Washington, D.C.
In fact, I want to turn to your speech in
October at the National Press Club as you
accepted the National Press Club’s John
Aubuchon Press Freedom Award on behalf of
Mexico’s journalists.
This is what you said then.
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] [The
murder cases, the disappearances] and the
exiles is a constant suffering and source
of pain for our families.
Lady Impunity has not let go of our hand,
while Lady Justice prostitutes herself in
the company of the government 
to again kill the freedom of expression.
Those who seek political asylum in countries
like this, like the United States, we encounter
the decisions of immigration authorities that
barter away the international laws.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Emilio, that is you, Emilio
Gutiérrez Soto, receiving an honor from the
National Press Club in October.
You were then detained in December.
Do you believe there was a connection between
the two events?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] I think
so.
It’s been quite clear that after receiving
a recognition of that nature and of that importance,
we had a visit, a contact, supervisory contact
visit from ICE, and immediately they put the
handcuffs on us, took our photographs and
practically took us a few meters from the
international border, the argument being that
we were being deported, when there was already
a motion before the court of appeals in order
to stop such a deportation and so that we
could continue our proceeding in liberty.
What was attempted on that occasion was, once
again, to cut short or to cut off my freedom
of expression, a freedom which I have continued
to exercise in Mexico and in the United States.
I believe that the work of journalists is
to speak the truth, to act with the truth,
and especially to cast light on the truth
for those who listen to us on the radio, those
who read us, those who see us or watch us
on television.
We journalists have a major commitment all
around the world to do the best we can, carrying
out our job honestly.
I think that it was one more reprisal on the
part of ICE.
After having continued in an asylum request
process for 10 years, ours has been the longest,
most drawn-out, most tedious asylum process,
and, in particular, the one where we have
put forward the most evidence before the immigration
judge that we did not come to the United States
looking for a green card.
We came to save our lives, the lives which,
for the Mexican state, turned out to not be
important.
So important has the work of journalists been
in Mexico, for the Mexican authorities, that
we have more than 125 journalists who have
been assassinated in the last 10 years, and
in respect of whom there is total impunity,
both in my home state of Chihuahua, as well
as throughout the country.
I feel that it was a major reprisal by the
United States government on speaking out and
demanding that international law in relation
to political asylum be respected.
These are laws that the United States has
proclaimed and said should be accepted in
other countries, but cannot be accepted as
a moral claim or protest in this country,
the United States.
AMY GOODMAN: Emilio, you have been detained
during this historic period of the Trump administration
imposing what he calls the “zero tolerance”
policy, where thousands of children were taken
from their parents at the border.
Still hundreds of them, if not over a thousand,
have not been returned to them.
Parents either deported or sent to 17 different
states.
We don’t know how many states children were
sent to.
You were watching this from your own detention.
Were parents and children coming into the
detention facility, the jail, you were in?
And what were your thoughts, as a journalist
and as a human being, watching all of this
unfold from behind bars?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Well,
it’s something that I feel extremely sensitive
about.
Ten years ago, my son and I came into this
country.
And the first I found myself before an immigration
officer, when they asked us what did we have
with us, and I said we had fear.
After having been in a freezer room all day
long, under conditions of below freezing,
my son and I were transferred to a prison
in Canutillo, and I was transferred to the
prison in El Paso, Texas.
We were separated, my son and I—my son,
at the time, an adolescent.
Today, when my son and I were locked up all
this time, I have been able to see how my
son survived the pain of seeing how his father
was separated, the only moral support that
he had in his incipient life.
We have now, once again, shared the intense
pain that affects thousands of families that
have been separated by a stupid policy, a
criminal policy, that is being used against
families.
All they are seeking is just a grain of justice,
the justice that is denied in our countries
because of the predatory policies that begin
in this country.
It is totally—it’s a total aberration
that the United States, a Christian country,
that its authorities have no idea whatsoever
of what Christianity is, of what it means
to love your fellow human beings.
The separation of families is an aberration.
We, and my son, we experienced that wrenching
experience during a 7-month period in 2008.
AMY GOODMAN: So, Emilio, now you are free,
and you have been offered a Knight-Wallace
Fellowship at the University of Michigan.
Are you able to go to Michigan from Texas?
Will you be able to go to school?
And is your son going with you?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] We are
hoping that the immigration authorities—well,
my son and myself, we are a family, and we
have every intention to get to Michigan.
We hope that, in coming days, the immigration
authorities, particularly ICE, will return
to us our Social Security cards and the other
documents that they confiscated from us, that
they did not give us a week ago.
And we hope that, with that, we’ll be able
to travel to Michigan and take advantage of
this life opportunity and take advantage of
this educational opportunity and, if possible,
become fully engaged once again in U.S. society.
AMY GOODMAN: You were also in detention through
the historic election of AMLO, Andrés Manuel
López Obrador, who will be the next president
of Mexico.
Soon after he was elected, the head of homeland
security, Kirstjen Nielsen; the secretary
of state, Pompeo; the senior adviser to Trump,
his son-in-law Jared Kushner, all went down
to meet with the president-elect, with AMLO.
Can you talk about his election and also what
you see will happen and what this means for
U.S.-Mexico relations?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] Well,
look, Mexico, through Andrés Manuel—well,
I have followed his, AMLO’s, political history,
and I have felt closely identified with him
in terms of the social policies that he has
proposed.
I believe that Mexico is going to draw a clear
line vis-à-vis what Trump wants and what
we need to do with Mexico.
Mexico, in recent years, has practically been
supervised and under the yoke of the United
States.
I think that’s going to change.
Even though Trump has had some ideas in those
approaches to López Obrador, I feel that
López Obrador, because of the social support
that he has had through the ballot box, is
going to be obligated to follow through with
the country in respect of things which have
been denied to us.
I’m speaking specifically of social justice.
There is a tremendous debt in terms of security.
There is a huge debt in terms of health, education.
And I think we’re going to begin there—and,
among other very important things, our energy
resources, which have been practically given
away to countries like the United States and
Canada through the North American Free Trade
Agreement.
We Mexicans need to reclaim our oil, our electricity,
our hydrological resources, and especially
our mining, mining which has practically been
turned over totally to Canadian interests.
We need to negotiate that.
And I think that AMLO, López Obrador, has
set those goals clearly, and he needs to follow
through on them, because he has offered that.
AMY GOODMAN: The number of journalists who
have been killed in Mexico since you were
detained, I think the number now is eight
journalists gunned down, who faced the fate
that you were afraid of if you were deported
to Mexico.
Can you comment on the level of violence in
Mexico and what you think needs to happen
to address this?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] The violence
in Mexico was brought about by a drunk president,
Felipe Calderón, and then there was a corrupt
president, Enrique Peña Nieto, who has presided
over further violence.
They have not had the intention of offering
any justice whatsoever.
Impunity is what has accompanied journalists
throughout this time.
We were about to be deported.
And with that, it’s practically turning
us over to those who were looking for me to
kill me, which is the Mexican Army.
The Mexican Consulate in El Paso is an agency
that is totally at the service of ICE.
It does not protect the interests of Mexicans
at all.
The consul takes great pleasure in being friends
with William Joyce, who’s the field director
of ICE.
We Mexicans continue being aliens for those
who are in charge of the consulate.
And the consulate obviously works with the
immigration services of Mexico and the customs
services of Mexico, which are mostly in the
hands of military officers.
We were about to be put in the hands of our
executioners, with the nod of the consulate.
This is something which caused me, personally,
great fear, because I was practically—the
life of my son was practically being put in
the hands of the Mexican Army, a life which
has nothing to do with the work that I have
done over many years in Mexico in my work
as a journalist.
AMY GOODMAN: And finally, Emilio, what message
do you have for people outside of detention
centers?
What should we understand about what’s going
on in the detention centers, what you call
the concentration camps of the United States?
EMILIO GUTIÉRREZ SOTO: [translated] I believe
that we need to become more aware and to implement
Christian values above all else, which have
been at the foundation of the laws, regulations
and conduct of this nation.
We have such a moral commitment, on our part,
particularly my son and myself, to raise awareness
and foster greater solidarity among human
beings as a way of strengthening our peoples,
our education and our social conduct.
We have a lot of work to do still, with churches,
with students, with all of society in general.
We have that commitment, and we intend to
do so with whoever wishes to listen to this
voice that speaks out as a form of free expression.
AMY GOODMAN: Award-winning Mexican journalist
Emilio Gutiérrez Soto.
He’s just been released from ICE detention
with his son, after being jailed for seven
months, released on court order.
He’s been awarded a Knight-Wallace Fellowship
at the University of Michigan and plans to
move to Ann Arbor next month with his son.
He can only go if ICE returns his documents.
When we come back, we go to North Dakota,
where the body of Native American mother of
five, Olivia Lone Bear, has been found in
the bottom of a lake near her home after a
9-month search.
