Welcome everybody to another episode of the H3 podcast live.
Every Friday at twitch.tv/h3productions except sometimes it's not on Friday.
Uh. Thank you to Omaha Steaks, Lyft, MeUndies
and Honey for sponsoring this episode of the H3 podcast. If you guys have any questions for us or a guest today.
Give us a ring at eight one eight two one four eight five zero four
Next week, there's still alot of you know, there's some housekeeping stuff to get to you so just keep it , just keep it chill you know.
keep that house
Sometimes it surprised me how much housekeeping we have but anyway Michaels here. I'm gonna do like an official intro
I just want to say we have some houses keep chilling you're doing good
Doing great
Next week I'm very excited to say that we have Brendan green
Coming on to the podcast aka player unknown the creator of the massive
Successful PUBG is the director designer producer aka the new notch right?
Very excited that episode will be at an irregular time Wednesday the 20th at 3 p.m.. Leave your questions for him on the subreddit
I'll be throwing that up here after this live broadcast. I forgot to put it up today's guest is
a saucy fellow
A vsaucy fellow if you will
We all know him and we all love him. He's Michael and he's you've recently
Ascended from a science guy to a living meme status
I would say I think the Vsauce memes are in high demand as far as the meme economy is concerned
He just came out with in
Second season of YouTube red series mindfield was just released and I had a excellent time watching it
And he's got one of the best channels on YouTube Vsauce
Very honored and thrilled to introduce once again to the show Michael. Thank you great to be here
yeah after
Being here for the groundbreaking of this very studio. I'm back. It's it's very cool
You are I think our first ever guest
In this studio, it's a lot your friend first ever was PewDiePie right yeah, and that was like in a some warehouse
Right he had like a Airbnb in LA he was shooting scare PewDiePie
Right season 2? Yeah, I don't know if that yeah
I think that was season 2 Wow we all know we all know how that one ended a little season
Yeah, one of my favorites. I was in it by the way. Did you know that? No kidding.
How you were in minefield where like it didn't work. Yeah, and so it's kind of like thanks for trying
It was actually much worse than that I was a full episode
I co-starred mean HeLa both in an entire episode. No Kidding. It was a whole fucking thing. I got electrocuted, bro
For real yes
technically
For those science fans out there watching electrocuted means killed
If you didn't die you weren't electrocuted so shocked
I'm sure there's some other word but yea electrocuted.
Look it up. You have the power. I believe you I believe you.
I'm just I've said  "that shocks me" I'm not saying that I know every word
Electrifying knowledge electrocuted can I put my mouth right on the mic? It feels kind of good. Yeah, I prefer
Basically, the more in the better it sounds. How did this
A lot of famous mouths have been right up next to these
thats true
you get there's hep there's a
Really passionate and tender kiss have you ever seen me kiss. I'm all the sudden jealous of your wife. You should be.
Yeah, there's all kinds of hepatitis. It's a petri dish dish
It's basically new new forms of STDs being transmitted to your tongue right now glad to be part of history cheers to that
more Brad Berry
more Brad Berry yeah
That's one set of lips you may not like. This very mic?
Yeah, you keep this mic here, and you guys use the same mics every time. Yeah, well we...we have switched around.
What? Well I have been there before and here.
This is my mic. I don't know what Hila has been up too.
Ethan doesn't move.
I don't fucking...I don't let anyone use this mic.
Where was moo?
He was right there.
We bleached it though when he was done. Thank you.
I bleached it like halfway through the show
He was like protect me from myself. Yeah, I was like sorry buddy
How's the show change, I mean last time you were here
We had like tape it was it was kind of a funky setup right. Yeah, I was on that couch I think. Yeah.
Which was very comfortable now? I'm I do feel kind of tall with this chair being up high
But I'm afraid to move it cuz then the Michael have to move it'll just the Mike is very everyone. Yeah, the micah
Yeah, the mike but what if I don't move it right? What if I get too low?
I just want to get fishing you can really just manhandle this thing. Okay. Well. How are you? How have you been?
I mean how the hell is life since we last spoke with you. It's great. You know it's been it's been fantastic
I just got back from the brain candy fall tour
And that is you know it's a it's a slog you know everyday
You got a show well six days a week, and they get one day off we perform in Kansas City my hometown
gave shout outs to some teachers that made a difference in my life when were there in the audience and
Got to have my grandmother's come
You know couldn't really make it very far away from Kansas City's having the show there
It was really cool that is very cool
You do it six out
So how long do these tours last because you says you do it six times a week at once a day six times a week
So how long is that duration? It could be four weeks like this fall one, but in the spring we did nine
Holy, no break. I mean how?
Level with me Michael how awful is it? Yeah?
It's it's not because here's the thing Adam Savage has been traveling and touring for years
He knows how to make it nice, so we've got star coaches right. We've got rooms in the back of these buses. We drive
Overnight right you wake up whenever you want to because you don't have to worry about the show until like 6:00 p.m.
So you've got a day to just lay in bed go to the dressing room. I could do a lot of work
I can still make my regular calls and I can visit the cities. I'm away from home
I'm away from my cats Millay from my wife. I'm away from the Vsauce office. That's a drag right but
meeting people in person is
Really important. You know you can watch a YouTube video and and
Engage with me that way, but when you meet in person or when you turn it your whole evening
And it just coming to a live show it's a bigger part of your life. I think you know you remember it longer
You've been to show. Yeah, we really we're in Costa Mesa right there's in Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara. That's right
Yeah, so I remember
It's a total blast. It's a total rock really the kids they love the goddamn balls
Balls well they're free yeah, there's free balls. I mean guys free balls that you you really you're selling tickets to bring candy
But we you should really be selling us free balls free balls coming well. They're not free
Free it's lots of balls and then underneath in parentheses brain candy brain candy yeah
paper balls
balls yeah stay for the candy
Yeah, I found that to be true as well
I mean when you meet a fan you writ that personal connection or realizing that these like real people
watching your oh
man
and the best thing is that especially because I'm touring with Adam Savage a lot of makers come to the shows people who have a
craft people who love
To make things and they make us stuff
They make us wire sculptures a guy made these muppet type puppets of Adam, and I that are just phenomenal
I mean it's not like I tried it's like I'm a professional here normally
This would have probably been thousands of dollars
And I just made it because I love making puppets and now I have a puppet of myself which
So you're collecting treasures?
You collect treasures, that's that's powerful. Yeah. How I do get nervous before the shows
I mean, this is a serious production and there's a lot of people in the audience
Create these you know. It's it's a whole or thing they come out tonight. They come out
They watch you. I mean you've done a lot by now, but walk me through the process of of
Prepping yourself for that and now after doing it for so long
Dude does the nerve still affect you? How is it?
No, the nerves. Don't affect me now. They did for that first show because I had never done this. I have no idea
What the show was gonna be like we'd run through a few rehearsals with no one in the audience
But luckily you know Adam
And I are both pretty good at improving something goes wrong
If someone needs to change we can just do that on the spot
And you start to get really familiar with it
And then I've got a background of doing live performance ever since you know high school
Giving informative speeches and and that kind of stuff in forensics and debate
And so I got the butterflies out like I feel comfortable if something goes wrong I can fix it
Yeah, I feel like I would be shitting like my pants every fucking night
We thought we've toyed with the idea of doing a live tour
And I just I think I would I would I would have a breakdown well. It's too much stress
You might, but not forever. You know I'd get over it forever not forever
No, you would you would learn every night would be the worst night of my life. I feel it you
know I
Disagree okay? I should do it. I like your encouragement yeah, you'll be super nervous the first the second the third
But then you'll start to be like man. I can't wait for this
I can't wait right so it's a fun thing for you. Now. You go onstage you do your thing you look forward to it
It's really fun
I mean it's the same show every night
but not really because there is no script and
So are always tweaking things before the show will meet and I'll say you know
I think that joke would land better if we did this or I think we should change the order or I think we should
Explain that part and then I'll explain this part, and then you can think you don't understand and then I'll pretend understand
It's always really fun, and it's new to every audience right I've seen the show or I'm in it, but every night
It's a new city, and it's new people who were like hearing and seeing these things for the first time
You had said that you
Guys are both really good at improv and so when something goes wrong you feel comfortable picking up the pieces
What's the most dramatic thing that's gone wrong for you guys on stage?
I fall a lot on stage faceplant. Not a faceplant
There was one night. It was in Canada. I believe it was in London, Ontario
where we didn't have the right party fog juice normally we use propylene glycol I
believe and instead we had this oil-based thing which meant that a
Layer of oil formed on everything on stage including before me
Yeah, so you know I danced in the show as you've seen yeah, but it wasn't even during dancing
It was just I was just walking carrying this bottle of acetone and boom slip hit the ground
It was so bad the like I needed to discuss it during the QA and the middle of the show because the audience was like
Okay, and also maybe that was the had to have been scripted and planned because no way the show would have gone on that's not
Even the worst though the worst you ate shit pretty hard it sounds
Yeah, yeah, and I I'm a real jumpy person so when I fall. I don't just like kind of you know fall I go
Because I feel like me that'll be more entertaining or everyone thinks I'm really hurt another I fell and
Though this this was the same the same show with the oily floor
I fall and I feel while I'm falling I think you know what I can save this if I start like breakdancing
Maybe that's what I meant to do right, but there was a stagehand in the way
And I roll into him because of course the floors covered in oil I can't breakdance
I can't breakdance anyway, but I also can't even like get friction with the ground, so I just slide into him and
Killer show that sure we couldn't get the oil out of it, so
Was that a good was that a favorite sure yours it was a really good stage shirt?
That's of London, Ontario you guys were the last ones
I haven't seen any but I'm sure the
Michael are like Dan and Han, can you guys look up if there's Michael eating shit on stage? Oh my god?
No, there's some just like
Dancing and not falling Clips out there. Oh my god. I hope that's up there
I mean that sounds like a hell of a show if I'm being honest
Yeah, they were very lucky. Yeah, they're very fortunate people I again what my next question for you is that?
I'm fascinated by people who do a lot of stuff. Thanks. Matey. Thanks, Dan I
Can't go
I can't get a break people make fun of me because I say fascinating a lot
Like I wonder how they fascinating fascinating and every time I say fascinating Dan hits the soundboard to mock me
fascinating
fascinating
I'm I can't even say it do I get to do I get passes should I get some?
The F word the F word, but the guest won't know what I'm talking about dance err Michael just confused right now
There's no idea what's going on alright. Let's get I'm fascinated
Give me a give me a breakdown give me a fucking pass on this one
by
showman or productive
professionals
Who manage so many things in their lives because I find myself always like
Overloaded and I get flustered and lose focus when I have too much shit
Do you in minefield Vsauce brain candy of the Curiosity box?
How do you manage all these things at once and keep yourself sane and focused I?
Don't and I'm going insane. No. I think what it is is it's um
It's about a great team to help you you know
I'm I'm involved with the Curiosity box and help curate things
But there's a different team that packs them deals with orders deals with getting samples
And I love what I'm doing that's kind of a cliche answer, but like when I wake up in the morning
I want to continue reading about
You know rigid rotational dynamics. You know because I just want to and it happens to also be my job
But if I couldn't do that I'd be kind of like
Annoyed mmm so it's I'm really fortunate that my job happens to be what I do anyway when I have free time
But that also means that I do I ever have free time. Yeah, I gotta take a break you say okay
I'm gonna stop
What do you?
feel like you have free time do you feel you need free time does being so busy all the time how does that affect your
life
It doesn't affect my life because my life was already even before YouTube the same thing
I just didn't have anyone to listen to what I had discovered right I would talk out loud to myself
But then with YouTube around I could just turn who I was into a show a show right and
To get to get bigger than that to do a live show
to do the Curiosity Box to do mine field you have to have other people help and so wonder people work with you and
Supporting you so gosh. I mean there were more than a dozen people on mind field well, and we had a number of actual
psychologists helping with
Pre-production because the first season was classic
Experiments it was stuff that I knew because I had an undergraduate degree in it
And I was like let's just replicate all of these famous experiments. We know the result to expect
and we kind of you know we know we want to do but for season two I wanted to go into what a
psychologist doing today, and how are they doing it so we had to bring in people who were
Career psychologists who could then reach out to different universities and say what are you doing?
What can we help you do we've got
Money, we've got resources. We've got in some cases cameras like an episode that isn't out yet, maybe it will be
When you're watching this
Was about the placebo effect, and how we're enchanted by neuroscience that we believe it can do more than maybe it really can and having
Mine field there as a documentary crew
Made people believe that the study was more powerful than it was because of course it was a placebo study
But it must be something if all these people are here with cameras if this you know if Michael Stevens is here
It must work, and that was all part of of
Planting that suggestion in their mind that they're gonna get better mm-hmm
That's very cool. I'm looking forward to uh how there's another six episodes coming on my field or what's the deal?
I think were six already. I think there are three more
There's eight total and so far five have come out so over the next year the next three will come out
So I wanted to talk about the season to mine field actually
Because you definitely it seems kicked it up a notch
From season one and I appreciate you
sacrificing your own body of mine as guinea pig you dabbled in a little bit season one with the deprivation yeah, but I
Loved the truth serum, and I loved the ayahuasca trip
Tell me about how you guys came up with that deer and I basically I just want to hear like
what was the experience like let me start with the ayahuasca because I feel like on the show I
Wanted to I wanted to hear more about how was that experience for you right because it was fucking it was a weird
trippy thing like it's one thing to take a psychedelic and hang out with your friends as another thing to hang out in like a
Jungle while some robed man chants while you trip balls and be recorded. Yes. Yeah, yeah, there's like yeah
That's a weird way to do a psychedelic. Yes. Hey guys rather than doing it in like my dorm room
I'm gonna do it in the middle of nowhere
Where no one has cell connection where the only way to get back to a city is by taking a boat ride for hours
Lying there was a measure of paranoia. There was a lot of fear, and I don't think you know we didn't
record a lot of that, but I was really nervous as the date approached because I couldn't
Say no
I could I made it very clear that like look if
We're gonna do this we all need to agree that up until the moment
I put it to my lips I can say no and no one's gonna be mad that we went all the way out there
Because I didn't plan on not not doing it, but I wonder you want to reserve the right. I didn't want to feel forced yeah
And so I said look when it comes to the decision process and what we do and how it works
that hierarchy goes me then the shaman and
Then everyone else
If the shaman thinks that we need to have the lights off if the shaman thinks I need to stop recording
And I can't respond you listen to the shaman yeah, I know he's not on payroll
I know you didn't approve him as a director, but did he get EP credit. I don't know what he got
But he was a great guy. He was also our boat captain. Oh he's uh he moonlights
Yeah, yeah he moonlights with the ayahuasca right yeah
But tell me about that experience because I'm first of all was it your first
Psychedelic experience as far as my mother knows. Yes, of course. Okay, all right. Yes, not watching. This isn't your mother show and
It was ah
Man, I think the the initial emotion. I had before the ceremony was
Aggravation really yeah, because I was nervous
But I couldn't I couldn't do it my way
What was your way my way would have been?
To not have all the cameras there don't have to make a show right and so this is what's going through my mind
I'm like hanging out in the hut waiting for the shaman and and his assistants to come and get me
but I can't just get picked up and then taken to the
The the ceremony we have to like do multiple angles and take the experience couldn't be authentic it was it was totally authentic
But I had a job to do during right yeah, that was the hard part that I couldn't just completely
Surrender myself to the experience as me
I had to be Michael the host of mind field right I had to listen to direction like ooh
you know what we have to do that again because
This light was in the wrong place or oh we need to get the coverage of the shot of you entering and I'm fine doing
that but I had bigger things on my mind and
colors and shapes well
I didn't even know what kind of colors and shapes are gonna be it was frightening
Okay, so then we've got a crew of people right
We've got something like eight people there
And they've got microphones all around and usually you do this in the complete darkness
That makes for a terrible show so we had to have lights installed which made me really self-conscious
because not only am I being watched and surrounded by people you're expected to perform, which I can only imagine would be such an
Awful feeling while you're tripping right okay, so expected to perform was another concern
I had so I also made it clear that if if I do nothing, but lay there catatonic leave for eight hours
You're all gonna be happy a speed. Yeah. Yeah, because I don't want to have any responsibility or obligation
Because you're in a different state of mind yeah, and I can perform. It's my career. That's my job
I'm used to that in this state of mind right if I get hangry or grumpy or happy I can still do those jobs
But I wasn't familiar with what it was like to be in the state of mind that DMT creates
So luckily we had all that figured out, and it wasn't that big of an issue, but I felt really
Unhappy that I had to have all these eyes on me
And and then as the drug started to take the effect I felt feelings of guilt
Here I am I
Was paid to fly to Peru to take drugs and only I got to take them no one else on the crew
Had signed the right insurance paperwork
Or would probably be able to do their job properly if they had also taken it so it'd been interesting though
It could have been interesting maybe for the season three the boom
Yeah
I mean the shaman drank some okay. Well you would do that, but when you took a dose
I was like were you a little concerned when you saw the shame and dip in yeah, cuz I was thinking wait
I thought you were your my god over me you're my guide, bro. Yeah
But let me let me tell you this
in
The the effects got stronger and stronger
my feelings of fear and guilt and and cut the the self-awareness of all the cameras on me that every motion I
Did was gonna be caught and if I sat up they'd have to reposition cameras?
And I'd be aware of that and what if it didn't work
What if they needed to give me some kind of direction and I wasn't in the right state of mind
I've intial II realized hey as
annoying as it is to have all these cameras around if
We didn't have the cameras here there wouldn't be a show and I'm doing this for the audience
I'm doing this for Robin the researcher who was there mm-hmm
It's not about me all of these concerns about hey guys stop walking that noise is frustrating or stop asking for the coverage shots
That's my job. It's for everyone else. This is not for me and
Starting to think about I need to just give Robin. I come come do the the the
EEG scan I'm ready for that I didn't want to but then I realized by allowing you to do it
I'm giving it's not about me and what I want. It's about what everyone's here for so that's a lesson. I took
That from that afterwards citrus in yeah
How that's interesting that makes you think about?
When when something is your hobby, and then becomes your job, it's kind of like it's not so much about you anymore
Yeah, that is kind of profound. Yeah, exactly
Did you you've you felt that on a level that you hadn't realized before yeah, I mean, I literally
envisioned myself as this like
Waterfall that's just offering
Its water to the world
And I'm like I remember sitting there going at some point Robin has to come over and give me a series of questions
He's got to put this thing on my head and measure the electrolyte electrical activity there
And I could say no and I planned on saying no until I realized the way to get rid of all that anxiety
Was to just say let's do this I am a vessel for your research
Were you concerned from the beginning that you weren't going to be able to perform that?
Hmm no, I wasn't really couldn't because I figured even if it all completely is messed up
And we don't get everything right that in and of itself is whatever happens is good. Whatever happens is well
how did the experience meet match up to your expectation let's let's let's
Let's just assume that you've taken other psychedelics. Let's just imagine a world where you have how would that?
Hypothetically compare to your experience well
It's it's different for every single person
But anxiety was my biggest fear because once you're you're once you've drank the ayahuasca
it's you're you're on the ride like you can't take the antidote right you know and
The first ceremony was really Pleasant and and quite low in its dosage the second one within 20 minutes. I was like oh
No you took twice as much as I recall you took like a third of a cup the first time and then
3/4 of a cup that's right. Yeah, yeah, and
It happened so fast. I had lost control. I no longer was like observing
What was happening things were just happening to me right and?
My heart started racing right we had a medical doctor there, which normally you don't because it's not dangerous basically
but
YouTube requested that we have a yeah
Yeah, and so I was but here's the thing my heart was going. It was literally beating very fast
I actually there's a moment where I touch my chest and I'm like yep
It's really happening, but then I thought how do I let the doctor know?
Because I can't think no this is not how I normally feel is it weird if I just say hey um help
How are they going to interpret that and so I just I thought maybe I'll just ask for water
You know maybe that like will tether me back down to reality because someone will have to bring me water
And that's a really Mundus is so I've been that like I feel like I've been in that headspace of trying to like
You're stuck between like
the ethereal world and the physical world and trying to make sense of
Being on another in another place, and it's frustrating. I hate that. It's frustrating because I was probably
Most consumed not by anxiety, but by the feeling of how do I?
Relay and describe what's happening to me later. You know because that's what always annoyed me about
Discussions of psychedelic experiences is that it all felt really vague and
Hard to empathize with and now I I mean
I I know why it's it's like describing colors to someone who's never seen it's a completely different state of mind right and
So I I every a psychedelic experience I've had
I've hated it. I don't know why would you say it doesn't sound like you quite hated it?
But it seems like it was marked with some negative feelings
Might yeah, my experience always have a lot of I think my problem is like I'm too anchored
I never really let go and you're always like resisting the urge to just kind of float off
And you're trying to hold on to the earth as you're floating to the sky
I think getting over that resistance is there a part of what psychedelics teach you right I didn't I?
Didn't break from that, but I'm aware now of its existence. I know what it feels like
Robyn Carhartt Harris from Imperial College London who came with me?
Didn't say I had a bad trip. He describes. It as a challenging trip. Yeah. You know I like that
I'm still glad that I did it, but I'm not like I got to do it again, and I think that's fine you know
That's exactly it's fine. Yeah
I think I think if you're so that eager to return to that state of mind you probably having some trouble dealing with the
Actual physical world if you're so eager to its embarked out there and and on a daily basis um
I don't know, but I know that
There's a bonus clip where we spoke to a woman who took psilocybin as part of this. Oh, that's like mushrooms
yeah, she took a pill through a study at NYU and
She worked with these researchers for months
And they crafted a pill just for her based on her weight based on her past
They knew what dosage to give her and they I think she felt incredibly safe. She wasn't in the middle of this brand-new space
Therapies for coping with death yeah, she heard death. Yeah because she had been diagnosed with cancer and
confront your own mortality is obviously frightening, but they they
Were experimenting with how psychedelics can help you deal with those feelings mm-hmm and she?
Was it was a phenomenal experience for her? She she tells a story of?
Seeing a table with all of her family and friends, but also death is at the table mm-hmm and she realized yeah
Deaths invited of course hmm and and ever since this happened years ago ever since. She's felt much better
she's she's
You know felt healthier, and she only took that one pill. It's not like just
it's one dose ah
That's that that's awesome, I love that I think psychedelics and and drugs like that really have a
lot of value to our society
It's just it's a shame that they get stigmatized
And I think that stigma itself is what contributes to a lot of the negative feelings you have when you take it
I think so too. Yeah, because you start to feel like oh my god doing something wrong. I'm doing something wrong yeah in fact
I had this thought that cracked me up during that second ceremony where I was like
You know what when the shaman lights the candle and says that it's over first of all it's very comforting because he knows how long
These experiences last when he lights that candle it's proof to me that
The effects aren't only going to wear down from now. I mean it takes a very long time, but they
When you're going down you start to regain control anyway
I'm thinking you know once he lights the candle and like the crews done the first thing
I'm going to say is I can't believe I'm gonna have to tell my mom. I did this and
Such a funny thing I didn't mind obscene it cuz it just felt like a joke when the experience was really traumatic
and poignant, but I
Forgot what I was about to say you were
Talking about the stigma how it makes that oh, yes
I think that if if I was part of the you know Shipibo indigenous tribe where this is a
Medicine prescribed all the time
I would not have felt the same kind of am I a bad ryerson am I am I I mean
This is illegal in the country that I live and I should feel bad that I'm doing this
This is a behavior that only bad people do right and you have that social baggage on you. Yeah, it's interesting
You know I heard about a study that doctors are starting to use MDMA to treat PTSD
so they give you a dose of MDMA which is ecstasy in the pure form and they set you down, and I guess if
It makes you feel more comfortable talking up and you feel more comfortable with the emotions that you're dealing with and so
All these drugs that that I think it's a shame. I really think it's a shame this war on drugs. What is done
III genuinely believe that people
Yeah, I generally believe that people don't abuse drugs unless there's something else going on like people don't just all the sudden
become addicted at drugs
I think all drugs should be legal and people should decide what they want to do
And if there's education and support to help people navigate those waters that we would be a healthier better society in the word drugs
What does it mean because it sounds like so many gangs?
everything from heroin to DMT tylenol caffeine to tylenol right and so we
Have done a disservice to both ourselves and to innovation and knowledge by saying ooh
You're gonna study psychedelics
we really only want to fund that if you're going to be studying the
bad side of them right and only recently has that started to break apart, and we have this now renaissance of
Investigation of psychedelics Imperial College London has this whole psychedelics research group
And that's who what Robin was from who came with us
and so
we're starting to be able to understand more about the mind because you cannot have a complete theory of the mind if you
avoid or ignore
Something that it's capable absolutely. I mean it's crazy that I
Mean yeah, we've tried some obviously by now from the way. We're talking about it and
It's it's weird to see what your mind is capable of
So I was ashamed to do it on like a daily or weekly or I don't I mean we don't do anything now
but we've tried it the
Experience of trying something that is really interesting just to learn by your own
Body people are so there's all these scares like you'd like you take acid once and you lose your mind
I knew a guy who took acid and fucking jumped off a roof or he never came back from the trip like these are these
Are I swear to god?
These are all just old wives tales that are just designed to spook you I don't think that really happens
Yeah, when I was a kid very very very rarely, right
Well two things one when I was a kid. I read the story about the guy who took LSD thought
He was an orange and locked himself in a closet because he was afraid of being juiced and there's no you think oh my gosh
How terrifying and and to be fair, this is a significant decision this isn't like hey
You know what? I should do is invest in gold right?
No, you really you should it's I don't think anyone should I don't have any
Advice or or I'm not gonna
Recommend to anyone what they do it's their choice or maybe the choice of medical professional should make but the fact that you know
HeLa you're like well as you guys can tell like maybe we have done something that
Cajun is we have to have that yeah
I feel bad like even talking about it because some people are gonna say oh you guys are promoting. Oh, yeah
I don't endorse it. I don't recommend it
I think you're like you shouldn't be able to talk about it
Right and like I think like you said it's a big decision to make for yourself
And I don't think that it needs to be caged by law or stigma
I think that there should be open dialogue there should be conversation and like go to a place like
Places in Europe where drugs are legal
And they'll test it for purity for you so that you don't take something awful and die right
Yeah
I can always that you know where's it's some shady stuff can hit me is that drug that shady bad people are gonna own the
Market, it's not gonna be regulated and there's not gonna be anything you're not gonna feel like there's anyone there
Who can help you or advise you through through the experience something I found fascinating
Was that when I spoke with Robin hit him heaven with the den fascinating fascinating?
I
Asked Robin the head of the psychedelics research group at Imperial College London
I'm like so what's your experience with psychics assuming? She's done it?
Hee hee sorry Robin Robin, Robin like Batman and Robin right he goes well. I don't talk about that
My grandmother might see they're such a cop-out, and I'm I'm saying that is that is I?
Was gonna say fascinating like that is you see it's fucked up. Yes. That's like drugs. It's the f-word
I've got all the stigma around they're a great example of the stigma. That's your job is to research
Psychedelics, and you can't say that you've ever experienced them what other scientists does that Oh mom I study gorillas
Oh have you ever seen any Oh, No yeah?
I would never look at a gorilla right I talk to people who have looked at them. Yeah
Or an imagined an astronomer who's like yeah, I've been studying the Stars and the motions of the planets. I've never looked up
Yeah, don't judge me if I don't look up. I've talked to others who have and until we break that barrier
I think we're really missing out on a big part of the human mind. It's a such a beautiful paradox
I think of this guy. I love even on a personal level. He's like no no no I don't talk about them
Yeah, anyway listen. Let's let's roll to a break
Quick thank you to our sponsors, and we will be right back with your boy. Saucy saucy Vsauce
Thank you to Omaha Steaks for sponsoring this episode of the h3 podcasts listen
Omaha Steaks is a product that I am fully behind
You know that scene in Pulp Fiction where they open this mystery chestnuts like glowing orange?
well
That's basically what they send you I received my package full of filets sirloins pork chops in gabon size it
Arrives in this chest with ice and you open it's like glowing. It's like I'm enlightened when I open this thing. It's unbelievable
Let me tell you about Omaha Steaks for $49.99
You can get my family gift pack
When you go to their website and search h3 in the search bar. That's 75% off
This is high-quality meets my friends for $49.99 listen to what you get two filets of the mignons I?
Knew a guy who once said fill it MIG nons here in Australia. He was Australia apparently
That's what they call it in Australia, but I didn't know that I'm sitting at a restaurant with this guy he goes
I'll have a Phillip MIG. Not I'm like might be you're not people aren't that dumb
If you're that uncultured you don't deserve a filet mignon
meghna, hon
I thought was funny Phil it may not you get to fill at Megan ons you get two tops
Two boneless pork chops four boneless chicken breast for kielbasa sausages hold on let me catch my breath
Four burgers for potato a Bratton's, which is yeah? These are actually?
You look
Me is incredible the potatoes are good. I'm not gonna take that away from it's a huge potato ball
That's like it's like mashed potato in a ball
It's like who made what genius made this you get four of those four caramel apple Titan to our new list
one OMA steak seasoning pack and
