Welcome everybody, to another episode
of the H3 Podcast live.
Today, our episode is sponsored by D-Brand, Seat Geek,
Naturebox, and—of course—h3h3shop.com. Today, we have the illustrious
VideoGameDunkey, and Leah. Leahbee?
Leahbeex? I don't know how specific I need to get.
Next week we are having Kripparrian,
the Twitch streamer and hardcore gamer.
Oh, I need to put up a thread so you guys can leave your questions for him. I haven't done that yet.
I don't know who to scream at to make that happen—probably just myself.
But in the meantime, before we get into that next week, we have got these two legends here. Now Dunkey,
who is—I'm looking at his back right now.
They didn't want to make it awkward—for me,
'cause I was gonna do an intro, and usually the guests walk in, but they were like, "Well, we're here already." Can you show the wide?
So they're just sitting here, and their backs are facing me. I feel like of the Blair Witch Project.
They're really committed to it too.
VideoGameDunkey.
No one makes videos like this guy. He's a one-of-a-kind masterpiece.
How did I do?
He's known for her loving spaghetti and meatballs,
and, he is also black.
Yeah, nobody knows if he likes it, but he—I think he likes it.
He's a man—he's so powerful, he was blacklisted from playing League of Legends. Forever.
Which is a badge of honor if you ask me. And probably he would agree.
Leah, his carer,
also as a channel—Leahbee—where they make vlogs and cute videos.
And now I present to you my friends, the illustrious, and the wonderful,
Jason, and Leah.
Hey guys.
Now you gotta—
You gotta turn around!
Thank you guys, it's really nice to have you here. It's so cool.
Thanks for coming.
Yes, thank you for inviting us.
Yeah, I feel like you're elusive in a way,
'cause your—your videos are so prolific?
But your character is kind of elusive, so it's really cool to have you in here and see—
I mean, I'm just a stunt double.
I'm not even the real guy.
Okay. 'Cause the real guy is black.
Yeah.
What's the deal? Why does everyone think you're black?
I am.
I am.
Oh, okay.
I think it just came out because—well—he never really did face reveals,
He would, like, put in little clips of his face, but he wouldn't say, like, "Hey, this is me."
And then people just, like, heard the voice and they were, like, "That's got to be a black guy."
You know what's funny? I thought you were black for, like, years. I was sure he was black,
I don't know why. And then I saw your dancing video that you did for, like—
you did some, like, subscriber milestone?
It, may be a million, or something?
Was it the one—it was all snowy? It was winter?
Yeah.
She helped me.
He made me walk around all—
for, like, a week! And that's—it was, like, five degrees out? Yeah.
Yeah, it looked freezing. It was very jubilant.
Very happy.
A lot of confused college kids.
Did anyone recognize you when you're shooting that? No.
They're just like 'This nutty guy...'.
Don't know why yeah, I thought you were black for the longest time, and I was like oh my god
Not black. I guess it's the voice
He's got kind of right
Got like a Louis Armstrong thing
Nothing there master
Yeah
jazzy boys good lord
Well, we've got some some wonderful things here too to celebrate today
Today is mining Ellis five-year anniversary
Thank you so much
And we were at Disneyland yesterday with these two guys
celebrating our engagement, yeah
First announcement congrats, tell me about tell me give me the details
At the post office romances began yeah, I had to ship some packages
And I came back out to the car yep, and he just said look in the glove box, and I was like why
I don't know if that's I think that's even better than putting or like more romantic possibly than
We see it you have it on yeah, can we get a shot if you like
Actually was good because it surprised me because we were coming on this big trip
so I would have guessed you'd like do it at Disney sometime, but
That would have been expected so you know it was a surprise in the car, okay, but you guys planned a vacation
Mm-hmm, but who planned it because was it because of the engagement we planned it for my birthday. Well shit was on Sunday
Oh, happy birthday
Like a double celebration yeah
Damn cold still cold heart
There was someone on Twitter actually I wanted to shout her out because she like noticed when we posted our picture yesterday at
Disney she saw that Jason's wearing the button
And she saw my ring like really tiny in the photo and she was like they got engaged
I was the only like on it. I liked it
Good job that move like get me into the
Yeah, we had like talked about you know getting engaged like sometime within the year, yeah
You had you had hope so
That's what I mean. That's what I was talking about we're a Disney. It's like look
We both knew they were gonna say yes. We don't need to get on horseback and do all this
That's for insecure guys who are like
I'm going to spend a bunch of money to put the peer pressure on them
So they can't say no because I spent $100,000 on that romantic
That's right
Love is putting it in a bag of baby wipes
I think some girls out there
Do yeah they want your like moment they want to feel like you know the most special moment, but that ain't any
With some people. It's just like a mutual. You know yeah, yeah, I guess that's fair
I like your opinion where you don't actually have to hate on people who think differently
Horses are special fucking you gotta feed them
Honey there's a there here the ring is in the is in the box, and there's also a dead horse
You may have noticed I was part of this my wedding gift. Thank you
Horse jerky
Listen I saw this tweet today
Jason and I just wanted to
Know the wicked wolf had said today's the day I finally unsubscribed from your channel, you're a complete fucking imbecile. That's a shame
It was a big
Video he's gone. He's
What was it about the new video? I didn't see anything controversial about it. Did you watch it? Yeah?
I didn't think it was controversial either it really likes those Tekken 1 cinematics
I don't know if he's out there. Just do a follow-up. What happened. Yeah, it wasn't about it. Yeah
I'd like to know more to tell me uh how was your relationship with your fans? Do you see a lot of reactions like that?
He complains a lot about like people not getting his
intention
What is kind of frustrating like which video in particular?
Well this
One, I kind of like confused when I'm trying to get it
Mm-hmm because a lot of times you do something that's kind of a parody
And then there's kind of not and kind of like there's a lot of layers to it, so I fuck maybe for some people
It's easy to like miss the point
One thing I found on YouTube is like you can't be too sore
It's hard to be subtle you have to like hit people over the head with a club
Because I think a lot of the people who write
Comments like they'll write it cuz they were like either didn't like it or they were confused
But if people were just like oh, okay. Yeah, cool, then they'll just move on they're just really great the combination. I got it like
Jimmy Collins ever get to you Oh
Never
He's so like he has a thick skin about that comment. That's good
I'm more like offended by some comments sometimes, but but you seem like you wanna get sued he's like
Why are you looking like just ignore it?
But it's such a it's so messed up because like you were saying most of them are good
See you have a healthy view of it, and my thing is like and I know it's sick, but I'll be look
I'll look at the comments, and I'm trying just not to read them anymore because it's it
But it's like I'll skim pass like all like ten of the nicest things anyone ever said about me
And then one guy was like fuck you buddy
That's kind of and I'm aware of that some eight-year-old is like getting
Funny thing for like my channel and stuff to my mom like reads every cop, Oh Mike
She's like getting deeper than me. She reads all of them and I
Don't I can't
Did she ever text and be like I saw this today, and I just wanted to tell you
One of the talks about it yeah, I don't know she's texting me, but she definitely brings it up like when I go visit
My dad
Commenting nasty stuff
Do your parents watch your videos? Uh-huh I think so do their mom we used to kill the missions where you swearing in these videos?
My kids they're gonna look it up and swear
She's a good second-grade teacher. Oh, that's yeah, so
So I want to ask you because I'm really this most people on YouTube
I watch their videos, and I understand how they're made like I understand somewhat the creative process of what's going on there and
But with you, I don't really understand how you make those videos that you do like
Do you record tons of footage and then voiceover or later, do you do voiceover while you're playing the game
You just sometimes like how does that work? It's it's always different
Sometimes I'll write a script sometimes on this record
Three minutes
Okay, so you're just when you do that
Are you looking for like a specific like shot or you're just like oh that happened, and that was funny
I'm gonna say like like a montage just like overwatch video or a league one
No, just say. I'll try to cut out the funniest parts mmm
Overwatch feels like it takes like months now to just to get four minutes of entertaining stuff one game. Yeah
Like what can I do anymore?
What does that mean what does that say about over welcome?
To the fucking ocean
Second you have massive hard drives
You have such a good system were like oh
Yeah, you gotta use fraps. Okay, okay?
every game fraps and then every time something happens you hit the button, so you know to look at the end of the
Then you're going through like 3,000 clips
You just skip to the end every time huh that's brilliant yeah, and he has to clean it out
So it's not like you know his whole computers always follow usually every day. Yeah, I
Just a bag of Cheetos on the desk
Just like Cheetos all over the
So I've always had trouble desktop recording, I don't know what's going on in my life, but I'm having multiple computers
Multiple programs, I've used like Camtasia. It sounds awful right I mean the name
So there's so many tears what am I doing wrong for like a game?
Anything recording YouTube
Well you know if you record with like bandicam and HD I
Add it with Adobe, and if you put HD shit. You can't edit it. It's like it'll take like a minute to respond
That's just it's like undoable I
Just do like fake HD like 70 yeah
Cuz you putz it all up anyway the video
As long as it says HD
En XD there you go, it's a funny idea for a video super 4k
You can come over and set it up for you at your oh, yeah
What program do you use to edit I do?
Yeah, it's a love/hate. Yeah, do you wrestle with with premiere a lot? Yeah, it's sometimes. Yeah. Yeah, shit well
That'll just what the fuck. Yeah. It just that's what the fuck happened. Yeah
Like what? I'm dealing with now is that when I make a keyframe it will just randomly twist hmm for no reason
There's a twist in it
so I'll go like at this image to go to aid to be and then it's just like i'ma go in a fucking rainbow and
Go up this green. Yeah
Between the keyframes instead of a straight line. I don't know why I'm just like what?
It's a learning curve seventy years
You get to understand the quirks often feel like in Premiere, I'm you have to like outsmart the bugs
Like a sink whant a sequence were like not work will be something wrong so ok. I need to create a new sequence
change the settings to
720
put that in there
Restart my computer five times, that's the solution on the official forum
So when you're editing you have all this footage
Do you just like painstakingly go through all this stuff?
Or do you have an idea afterwards you're like using that trick you said?
Or do you just watch like hours and hours of footage?
I mean I watched it so much that one of the ideas happened then but sometimes
I'll add it all the guidance a shit sucks you do it all
you scrap videos a lot ah
Really anymore. I just try to think everything out now mmm nice time
on the back burner
I got ahead enough, but I didn't so I save it for later. I see him do a lot
That's cool. Like the video you posted today about the bad graphics that apparently caused the exodus
Like you mentioned that you had been working on that for a while so tell me like about
How that video came to be I just started writing like a little script and notepad like last month mmm
I can't think thank this through. I can't get it all together, so just wait till later
And then later you find like you just think about it
You don't like a different way to sometimes like the timings off, too
Like you got to get a new video out mmm. This one will take too long
I'd be on time yeah, yeah, when a new heart like is out were you just like grind for 16 hours
Will you let the crazy?
Cuphead I'm still
Okay you have a cup head video coming yeah, so a lot of people were asking because we have a thread video
Bed no comment for now you'll have to watch
Yeah, we have to like plan our trips around like game release schedules and
Excited for that you got to stay home from reo you can't go anywhere
Take everything off the calendar
My favorite video of yours I think or one of them is the Skyrim one with just all the insane mods
colliding like tell me about the process of how you you that video came to be I
Mean, I think that was just like seeing on everywhere you're going to just see like people just posting mods Skyrim
Just like the shittiest monster the dumbest shit ever there's so many
People just I just wanted to see like how much that shit I can enable at once
Everything you can enable everything at once it seems like like a supercomputer
Like a prebuilt one
It's a predator Jason
So basically you started from just this point of like I want to throw all these in it
See what happen and it was it was
such a joyous I
freaking love that video
His first when they got to the top of Reddit. I think really really no it's kind of like a breakthrough
Like their mom stuffy. What's that cool for you? Yeah? I think that brought in some new people mm-hmm
Do you use read it? Yeah? I look down there sometimes say like comments
sometimes
Sometimes there's some smart stuff on there clever stuff and sometimes it's like worse than YouTube
Huh, yeah, it's true, I don't know when and where to look so I just stopped looking honestly. Oh, you don't like it
We try not to look yeah
Yeah, I think that 1:19 look at the comments didn't read them at all not
Because the thing is like I need to make the conscious choice because I know people like that video
So I need to decide do comments affect me or not
I can't look at them when they're good and then not look at them when they're bad
I'm gonna want to look like either way, and I don't want to look at the comments on a video
That's like mediocre because everyone's just gonna be like
Super rude and like heavy. I'm like yeah
It wasn't the best video, but you don't need to fucking like can't eat my children about it
And so for me. I'm like. I can't like pick and choose when I'm reading it needs to be all or nothing right
Yeah, it definitely can reduce your stress a lot if you decide I'm done like looking at yeah. It's I read every single
And you're not super depressed all the time I
Know it doesn't take any effort to write them income you know to see someone put an effort right now
It was really nice uplifting comments. That's really good. Dude. God bless you man
Seriously we should maybe I should do that yeah, that's actually really cool. We used to do that
YouTube is like introducing like a filter now like a censors thing
Did you see that no I think so I get blocks comments now
I feel like they're just typing then like the n-word or some shit. Do you have that on? Yeah? I think it helps
Mm-hm I mean should I hope with us. I hope it works
It's kind of like I always wonder like should I sense should I block certain comments or just leave it all open. It's like
It's like not a free speech thing it's like just I
Don't need people screaming the N word in the comments like the world was not losing anything
I don't know I used to think like that all right. I don't need a bunch to deal. Yeah. What do you delete on?
Your studies don't think oh you should never delete any all right. Thank ya
So when you delete a comment like when you decide this one it just gets me angry it's like the dumb
Especially if it's a really long one. That's like fuck you just wasted all that time
Do you block because you can mine are you banned I'm black right now spam one like hey
It's me donkey, and it has my fucking picture go on this link and it's like a virus and shit
Then there's like a comment why'd you send this to me?
Well to be fair you give him a virus I totally understand where he's coming from
What's your favorite types of videos to make
It's like something new something that doesn't like super formulaic
He just made like a movie review he like The Shining one it was great school. Thank you
I enjoyed that a lot dude, and I think you're fancy too because again one of the top question was like
Are you gonna do more movie reviews do other kinds of reviews?
necessarily before
Movie stuff on YouTube, I see like a lot of those movie YouTube channels, they get in trouble what's real that's copyright stuff
Yeah less so with video game stuff. Yeah like video games
I don't know. I feel like you can usually get away with it Nintendo will sometimes crackdown
But even then you know a lot of Nintendo stuff will still get through and make money
I was gonna ask you because I heard about this Nintendo thing they when did they do this and make this new policy
Forever ago really. I think I was like two or three years ago
What was it they just take all the like if you have a Nintendo song?
game, they'll just take all the money I
Don't know it seems self-defeating like it's not much money for Nintendo
That's like
So much promotion so little money they're trading like ten bucks
Yeah a hundred million views. I'm free promotion. Which is pretty much what you make on YouTube these days
Did you stop making like Nintendo related content as a result are you still doing your thing? No. I'm still doing it
cool
Well, let's take a quick break to thank our sponsors
And we will be back after this short, thank you to the boys
Stay tuned
and
Now a quick. Thank you to our wonderful sponsors beginning with DD brand nice
D brand is an incredible company a big fan of that
I am a big fan of and they're a big supporter of ours and creators in general. They make this product
It's like a decal that basically transforms your phone into a whole new slammin hot item
Um show the website here, you can basically customize your phone
They've got uh decals for every type of foam wood it looks so genuine
You know metal and everyone's favorite
Green eye previously had the marble
marbles great stones really cool
I mean it looks genuine and it really it does protect the phone
Without the bulk of a case if that's not what it you're into but today
I am here to talk to you about their upcoming product. Which is a phone case called grip
Look at this basically grip
Answers the question here while most competitors are doing
Well most competitors aim to one-up their competition on drop test. They're looking answer the question
How do we stop phones from dropping in the first dang place?
You know chicken or egg they say egg
The grip does exactly that gives you confidence that you're not going to drop your device
That said if you do it still got world-class impact protection technology built-in guys, okay?
I'm actually really hyped for this. I'm 100% gonna get this when it comes out if you guys want to
Sign up for the newsletter go down to the bottom, right
Put in your dang email, and you'll get notified when this hot slam and baby comes out soon
and I'm definitely gonna be hyping this when it comes out I
Got this cute little video here
It's a race car. It's driving. It's slammin. It's shifting. It's all over the track and then a whole sudden oh
My god, you will not believe what you're about to see
The phone I was on the car the whole flippin time now frankly
I don't know. You know probably not a practical use, but it it shows you how serious business this is
So guys head on over to Dee brand.com slash grip and let him know that
You're gripping that you're gripping
so thank you to D Brown for supporting the show and I'm looking forward to that new that new case and
next up I
Love these guys seeking because they don't seek keep by the way is a website that aggregates
Tickets to live events from all over the world to make buying simple now
We all know they have a great product and a great website
But what didn't we know is that? They're good ask great ask people my brother or my sister my dad have like a combined
Birthday in September their birthday very close to each other and they're both huge Dodger tickets, and I hit him up
And I'm like can you guys hook up my my dad and my sister for?
For the Dodger game coming up. It was it was Game one of the playoffs, and they're super excited
It was sold out so that can you can you do anything for me?
And look at this look at what they did for my family look at these fucking seats
dugout right behind first base
First base, I don't think about baseball, but basically this the best seats
They've ever had they were so happy and I was so thrilled that that we were able to hook him up and seek he
just Pony tup and
Good guy seat geek
Apparently it's like a whole different adventure back there. They've like free buffets. Yeah memorabilia a
Complete experience. There's apparently like
Crab claws just stacked high on ice and you disappear entirety people live there, just like Oh claw for the go. It's like go-gurt
So anyway, SeatGeek, I just wanted to give them a real big. Thank you to these guys
I was super nice to them basically how it works is they give you a
0-200 score on his ticket to let you know how good of a deal you're getting or if it's a bad one we're green equals
Good bad equals a red so you know um
You know I'm compromising this one's not as good of a deal, but I really want to see it or hey
This is a great value
In the app you can get a view from your seat
So you know where you're gonna sit you know what you're getting yourself into is it a great seat. Is it a nosebleed?
You'll find out right away
Guess what go to seat geek comm?
Link in the description
The game app and use code h3 h4 you guys you got to download the app use code
H2 h3 and get $20 off your first order click the link in description below to download the app code
H3 h3 god bless you see geek you sweet
Sweet ass Fox
And who's next some brands don't like me to curse in their spots, but
Hopefully, they don't mind I do it to highlight how much I love you goddamnit. Thank you see kook and
Lastly, we've got
naturebox who I love because it helps me cultivate Fupa I
get thick and voluptuous and beautiful, and you know what they do their best to prevent that because
Their whole thing is that they make snacks that are delicious and nutritious and don't have a billion calories
But guess what when you eat as much as me that doesn't really matter cuz it's so frickin good
You're not American unless you crack open three bags of snacks in one sitting
Nature box has over a hundred snacks that taste good and are actually better for you all snacks are made from a high-quality
simple ingredients which means no artificial colors flavors
Or sweeteners, so you can feel good about what you're eating and boy. Let me tell you I feel good
probably better than I should
Look at this their snacks are off the chain
Probiotic power mix that means it makes your butthole healthy yeah, I think or stomach
Yeah, why not say well. You know it's all. It's all tied together eula
tried mango
pineapple
Vanilla bean wafers. This is my favorite the sriracha roasted cashews those
Well take you on an adventure a whole new ride. It's like a ladder when he was on the magic carpet
That's what these cashews are for you spiritually and emotionally
Cheddar cheese crisps
Are you kidding me dark cocoa nom noms you put nom nom in the title and you expect me not to buy it
There's hundreds of these
Okay
They basically you know you're sure to find your snack obsession at naturebox
They had new snacks every month inspired by real feedback the latest food trends and professional chefs
It's simple guys go to nature box calms twos the snacks you want a nature box will deliver them right to your damn door
Your goddamn door and there's no risk you ever try snack. You don't like don't eat it because nature box will replace it for free
So check it out. Goodnight con /h Street right go right now right now?
to naturebox calm
Dance get 50% off their first order
What did I say wrong the first thing you didn't say this oh you guys wash it yes
Naturebox calm
Order man naturebox calm
We all eat snacks
This is a better place to do it folks so thank you to our sponsors to seek geek D
Brand in nature box if you're in the market for any of those
Support the show by hitting them up
And finally just a little promotion here
New shirts in the h3h3 shop calm
Because YouTube has demonetised our channel, and now this is our new source of making Adsense
selling shirts
But luckily we're on fire
This is a vintage vapenation shirt that is sure to explode your game and get you cultivate Fupa get
Get you know touch of vagina. I don't know this shirt will enable whatever it is
You dream of doing and more go to a tree shop calm and pick yourself one up today. Thank you guys for
Sitting through that and now back to video game donkey and Leah
Welcome back with the illustrious and prolific video game donkey and Leah, can you guys please join?
As we did the reads we made them face the wall so that it was less awkward
So tell me who in your opinion makes the best games, Nintendo
a lot of good indie guys
There's so many good someone hungry guys out there trying to make good shit
It's a lot of competition right and then a lot of more competitive than ever
For the Indies yeah, yeah, the games are crazy
But if you go to like the conventions like packs
Stuff like that the Indy section is always like the best part of any convention
Like more so than you know the big companies just more interesting more experimental. Yeah, we get to play the games yeah
They're like right there
That's awesome. Yeah. Do you what do you think about Nintendo as a company because I actually agree?
They make the best games, but like this shit on YouTube
It's just like so they're like what they're so out of touch right it's like
Just everything like in what way?
They still don't know how to do Internet at all like you have to do it fucking
17 digit friend code instead of just add in somebody's name
And like product launches
They never make enough yeah
It's not it's like they're selling diamonds make more switcher
Shout-out to you guys I can get a switch yeah
Sweet ass Fox. We're like. I just bought an extra one. I'll mail it to you. It's like
send me a switch I
Guess that explains why Nintendo is so like oh you can't use our games on YouTube
They're just out of touch you think that's what I think
It's like the switch, you know of course they want to make more, but they just don't I guess they don't have the
Production manufacturing
Yeah, but why not you'd think they could get as much as they want yeah high standards or something
Yeah, so what is it about them that they make the best games like do they have a philosophy or something?
I mean what is going on? They're like they just have all the most talented dudes like
It's got all Japanese dudes this they take their work so seriously
I think this is that culture it's like that honor yeah that deep ancient honour
Because it's so serious. God bless him like I remember I read a thing about Sonic 2
like they try to stay co-developed it and they had like you know they brought in Jeff and
Workers and American workers and American guys are just fuckin off goofing around
Japanese guys taking this so seriously
Track their hardest to make the best game ever you think I
Love that done' way cuz it's like you're making a video game show like oh, this is my dream
I'm a video game, but for them. They're like I will
Start by the samurai sword this is the best game of the decade got it. Yeah, maybe that's it
Let's take a call
Country boy 420. I love that name. It's like a little incestual. It's a little 420. What do you got for me?
Wait what happened we got to make sure this where do you go?
Oh country boy. Where'd you go?
I think I moved country more 422 the wrong channel. Can you help me?
Get his ass in there. Thank you boy for 20
Community such as gaming when it's kind of a kind of like over done. I guess like how do you like different?
She I guess from all the other channels cool nice. Thanks Doug
Just try
I
Don't want you to
Plug DJ in full plug DJ insole unfold goddamnit
Hey, man, how are you, good good? How are you guys we're great good?
All right my question is for for all of you. Um you're both collaborators with your significant others. What does that?
Experience like is it rough at times. What are the main points of having each other's presence when creating content a wonderful question
HS. No problem
You guys want to take that one I remember the Pokemon one
Lea was very hot it was really hot it's getting
frustrating
Come on go
Yeah, and it's like yeah, I'm doing all this stupid shit, but she's filming it yeah, so what's more uncomfortable
You know people give me the dirty looks like my throwing pokeballs at people and shit, she's like over there filming it
Yes, you guys are kindred spirit. You know what you're doing sunk heroes because you watch these documentaries about these guys climbing up to Everest
For iam shot with ducks we couldn't find any ducks
And then he ran into this lake
Going 4 in the morning it don't like get the mist down there you get the Ducks. That's when you got to get
the docks
So it's rough
When he asked like do his recording we like have our desks in our same computer room
So it's kind of weird if I'm like still in there like typing and linkies in my computer
So I like have to go down I go in like our basement and like wait till he's done recording
He has to you know. I'm getting his own, so
You have to work around yeah the delicate genius
I mean like I've never made videos without her
Yeah, I don't know how that's been yeah
You work together a lot more than we do I like for my channel. We do everything together like that
Then well were you making videos before you guys work together or for like how long were you already making videos?
I've been making them since I was like 12. Oh wow
new grounds oh
You're old school, dude
Damn, that's so cool
So in our case. We've been making videos since like day one so I've never even known a
Separate thing I mean it's always been like
Operation from the beginning like even coming up with the ideas and how to do
Even editing will still sit together, and I was like it was just funny, and she's like no
Do you ever be like
I mean sometimes. I would say like you should like put this in yeah
Take like an
Ending league oh, yeah
Yeah, I don't know I thought it was like a bad idea the way he was doing it
