Infowars.com is tomorrow's news, today you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
This is the Alex Jones show. It is Sunday January 14th, 2018. Wow, here we are.
Filling in for Alex Jones, I'm your host, Owen Schroyer. Today we actually do have stacks
of news, if you can believe it or not, on a Sunday. Stacks of news today. I've got all
kinds of fake news story. MSNBC gets hit with fake news. Wall Street Journal gets hit with
fake news. You've got a mob of socialists freaking out and destroying a retail store over a hoodie
that H&M put out. We'll be covering that. More crap hole. I guess you could say backlash
that really is just making the left look bad again, just like everything else. It just continues to
make the left look bad. Senator Snowflake, that's Jeff Flake, compares Trump to Stalin. You can't
make that kind of stuff up. You've got liberal judges trying to overrule the mandate from the
American people, and they continue to process DACA renewal. So all kinds of news, other news
that we're going to be covering today, all kinds of video clips. The Democrats keep calling Trump
a racist even though, I mean, it's just like, why do I even have to cover this? These people are
insane. And yet they say Trump is mentally unfit. But here's what the focus of today's show is
going to be about. Obviously, the big news over the weekend was the false alarm in Hawaii,
where the emergency alert system sends out a message saying there's an incoming ballistic
missile. It was fake news. They're trying to make light of this. Oh, someone just pushed the wrong
button. Yes, it was just an innocent mistake. Well, no, that's not really possible. There's so much,
well, like backups and different buttons you have to, I mean, this is a very complex system. It was
definitely not a mistake. That's what they're trying to say. And of course, if you listened to
Alex Jones last night on the fireside chat, he was breaking it all down a deep state, another coup
against President Trump with the fake alert of an incoming ballistic missile. But I predict,
just like everything else that's been waged against Trump in the form of fake news,
this will once again backlash and backfire on the deep state as an investigation has been
launched into what happened. But we're going to open up the phone lines today specifically for
callers in Hawaii. If you are from Hawaii and actually experienced this firsthand, 1-877-789
Alex, 1-877-789-2539. If you're from Hawaii and you experienced the false alarm firsthand,
please call in. Let's get your take on it. Here's the video from the news of the crazy scene in
Hawaii. They quite literally crawled into manholes and into basements. People here in Hawaii scared
to death, panicked in fact over what happened at 805. In fact, you don't have to go far to find
people that are more than happy to tell you their story because they now feel a sense of relief.
It was horrifying. I came across on our phones that there was a missile that was going to hit
and nobody knew what to do. It was absolutely horrifying. What did you do? Yeah, and just imagine
everyone's phones buzzing at the same time, much like when you get an Amber Alert. There's the people
running around when they get their alerts. 20 minutes long before people. Yeah. It took 30
minutes for them to correct this mistake. Why didn't they, when they sent out the fake message
of the ballistic missile, why didn't they immediately send out one saying false alarm? How
about that? Think about that. That took 30 minutes. She said, I want to be here just in case it happens
and it was really sad. A missile ballistic missile had been launched. Take cover. This is not a drill.
This is not a drill. A handful of minutes later it came up. Okay, so there you go. There's the
scenes. There's some of the reports on that. Again, it took them 30 minutes to correct themselves.
So today, I want to open up the phone lines to Hawaiians that experienced this firsthand.
1-877-789-2539. 1-877-789-ALEX. What was it like in Hawaii to experience this? We're going to talk
more about this and do you think this was a deep state attack to embarrass President Trump and
will it backfire? I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two-month
servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain
pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's
beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase
fuzz the operation. Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the info war. So it is January 14th, 2018, filling in for Alex Jones. I'm
Owen Shroyer. It is a Sunday here. And the big news over the weekend was a fake missile alert,
an emergency alert using the emergency alert system goes out to people in Hawaii saying that
there is an incoming ballistic missile. This is not a drill. Seek shelter immediately. It took them
30 minutes to correct this mistake. People were running around like crazy, not sure what to do.
Can you blame them? And then we find out it was fake news and they say somebody just pushed the
wrong button. But that is a blatant lie. If you listened to Alex Jones fireside chat last night
on the real Alex Jones channel on YouTube, it talks about how the deep state is, of course,
initiating a coup against President Trump and how this was part of it issuing this false alert
in order to embarrass President Trump. Well, guess what? Now, Ajit Pai has announced that he's
going to launch an investigation into this with the FCC. So will we get to the bottom of this?
Was this an attack against President Trump to make him look bad? Is it even possible that
it was a mistake? No. So what is behind this? We will find out. But if this was truly another
deep state attack against President Trump, guess what? It's going to backfire just like the rest
of them. So here's what I said in the first segment. And I will say it again. We want to open up the
calls, the phone lines here today for callers in Hawaii. What was it like for you on the ground?
Do you think this was part of the deep state coup against President Trump?
And what do you think needs to be done? So those are the questions I have. And I really want to
listen to what people thought about this from Hawaii who experienced this firsthand. So 1-877-789-2539,
1-877-789-ALEX. Specifically, I want to hear from people in Hawaii. What was it like? Do you think
it was part of a coup against President Trump to make him look bad? And what do you think the
backlash for this will be? So we're going to start to aggregate your calls here. In the meantime,
I do actually have stacks of news to get to. So while we get your calls ready, why don't I go
ahead and get into some of this news here today? I'll just go right through this stack of kind of
just random news that I have assorted here. Now, on Friday, President Trump held a press conference
honoring Martin Luther King. And you had Martin Luther King Jr.'s family there. You had a number
of other African-Americans there. You had Mike Pence there. You had Katrina Pearson there. It was
a good gathering. A lot of smiles. People were happy, very cordial. He honors Martin Luther King.
He talks about the greatness of what Martin Luther King did. And then immediately after that,
you have the liberal media saying, Trump, are you racist? Trump, are you racist? Well,
what more can President Trump do to prove he's not racist? And so then you have April Ryan
in, saying Trump is racist. And in fact, let's go ahead and just go to this clip right now,
guys. Alveda King reacts to Trump being called a racist.
So here's Trump in the White House on Friday after the meeting.
Are you racist, Trump?
Mr. President, are you a racist? Mr. President, Mr. President, are you racist?
Are you a racist? Well, more media backlash over President Trump's comments about-
Yeah, look at how racist he is bringing all of these African-Americans to the White House.
I mean, unbelievable. Look at the black unemployment is record lows. What a racist.
Real racism at home, certainly, and throughout-
So now here's Alveda King. And made real change. When everything is racist,
when that is the word now that everybody paints everything with that they don't like,
does nothing become racist? Does it, in some way, sort of cheapen what your uncle
fought so much to defend against and to stop?
Well, I believe Rachel just put it best. And by the way, good morning.
Good morning. Fox and France, thank you for being on it with real news and not fake news.
So to answer your question, absolutely. Racism is just a word that's being banded
and thrown about and thrown at the president. In my opinion, unjustly. President Trump is
not a racist. I've been with the president recently quite a bit.
So now the left is going to disavow the King family, you watch.
Making- No, no, no. I'm serious. I bet you you can find videos of this clip on Twitter
and all of the radical leftists are saying, oh my gosh, she's a race trader. This is what they do.
These people are sick. And I'm so glad the president has done it. But what is so outrageous to call
a man a racist who continues to acknowledge the significant work of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., my uncle in a positive way.
Yeah, he appoints Jerome Simpson. He appoints Ben Carson. I mean, it's unbelievable, the racism.
But this is the great part about it. The beautiful part about this is that the liberal media is
destroying itself. It is completely destroying itself. And so if there is a silver lining here,
that is the silver lining. And speaking of destroying themselves,
Jamie Demon or Diamond, I'm not sure how you pronounce this, the JPMorgan Chase CEO,
last week or the week before he predicted a 4% GDP growth pretty soon. I think if we say on this
path, we'll hit 5% by the year 2020. But he points out Democrats don't have a strong candidate for
2020. Yeah, that's why they're trying to shove Oprah down your throat. Boy, did that fail miserably.
And you've got the women's march coming up next week. Folks, that is going to be an absolute
embarrassment for these people. Trust me on that. Cannot wait for that embarrassment.
Flu season is shaping up as one of the worst in years, officials say.
Oh, I wonder if that has anything to do with them shoving the flu shot down our throats.
You know, President Trump made a comment. They asked you ever get a flu shot. He said,
no, I don't like putting bad chemicals in my body. That's funny. President Trump has gotten the flu.
But this flu season has been really bad. So that's that's been a big story. They'll probably try to
use that to sell you even more flu shots. That nice concoction of poison. Elon Musk confirms he
was at an alleged Silicon Valley sex party until 1am. And that's when he left. Now, this is actually
an interesting story. We had essentially our QAnon call into the Alex Jones show two weeks ago
and talk about how Elon Musk is a patriot. I've always liked Elon Musk. Obviously,
he's an innovator. He's a genius. He might have some liberal politics, but there's nothing
wrong with that. As long as you're fair. And so now is this was this an attempt to blackmail
Elon Musk? Was this was this an attempt to invite him to one of these parties? And the
next thing you know, you wind up passed out in a room with let's just say someone or something
you don't want to be in a room with. Little blackmail attempt against the patriot Elon Musk.
Interesting story there. Glad Elon Musk is smarter than to fall for that. Speaking of
being well, not smart and falling for it. Mitt Romney has confirmed that's what the
reporters are saying he's going to run. Of course, Roger Stone had that report. Actually,
I believe months ago. And so now the narrative is, will he run as a Trump friend or a Trump foe?
Well, he's only got one option and that's a Trump foe. Nobody's going to believe Mitt
Romney is a friend of Trump after he betrayed him during the election cycle.
You know, how do you explain something like this? Doctors warn teens against tied pod challenge.
So there's this, I guess it's like a laundry detergent to tide pod and teens are ingesting
this. It's the tide pod challenge. So wow, doctors are warning teens. It's bad for their health.
Oh my God, shocking ingesting laundry detergent is bad for my health. Oh, thank God. The doctor
told me that I had no idea what is wrong with these teenagers. Good night. Yeah. Tide is
reminding us with a Rob Gronkowski night not to eat your tide pod. Thanks, Tide. I think you
already put that as a disclaimer on the side of your your container there. But I guess teenagers
can't read. Thanks liberal indoctrinating public education. Thanks public education.
Teenagers are so smart now they try to ingest tide. SNL opens hits Morning Joe Bannon fire and
fury book. Now this is actually great. If SNL actually made fun of the crazies in media like
the Keith Overmans, the Mika Brzezinski's, the Joe Scarborough's, the Don Lemons,
that would actually be funny and raise their ratings. Let's see if they get the message and
do it. That's something that would actually be funny. Crazy Mika. I mean, come on, that's
that's good entertainment. All right, your calls from Hawaii on the other side. Don't go anywhere.
Matt in Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt. Go ahead. Yeah. Hey, listen,
I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a longtime listener of N4s. And I just wanted to say that
the T shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic. And that really is a great
way to deal with this battle in the N4 might seem like a simple thing, but they particularly
these slogan T shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing. Well, thank you.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me. And it's a big
Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake. And then it's got the American flag info wars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech. And the newest one is trigger warning T shirt trigger warning T shirt,
which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then info wars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at info wars.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated from maximum potency. Super male vitality was
developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals info wars
life wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info wars life.com.
That's info wars life.com.
Vegetables meets dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
That's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like
canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years. Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting
for check it out right now at info wars store.com. I want to plow into all of this
that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info
wars store.com you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is
essential that you purchase the products at info wars store.com I don't want to thank everybody
that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high
quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash
designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life.com
or triple 825-33139 and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America
stands with Trump stands against the globalists and there's satanic pedophile armies and that's
who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your
support. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin Texas broadcasting worldwide it's Alex Jones.
Osroy are filling in for Alex Jones today. He will be back tomorrow hosting the Alex Jones show
as usual 11 a.m to 3 p.m central and at this time we are going to go to the phone line specifically
we're going to hear from people in Hawaii that experienced the false alarm missile notification
telling you it's not a drill and to shelter in place immediately so we want to go right
to your calls to figure out what your experience was like. Do you think this was a an effort by
the deep state as part of the coup to embarrass President Trump and what do you think the
backlash for this will be should we find out that's the case. Let's start with Mary in Hawaii.
Go ahead. I'll enjoy her. Yes. Can you hear me? Go ahead. Hi Owen. My name is Mary and I'm calling
you from Hilo Hawaii and this is a really horrible thing that happened yesterday. I believe that the
governor is guilty of title 50 violation 841 and 842 of the United States code.
And what's the name of that governor again? David E. Gay. Governor David E. Gay. Yeah.
Yeah this was a planned attack. The governor's been having a lot of
problems this last week because I've been on them. Somebody served some
false foreclosure papers against me in 17-1-0366. So I've been in contact with the U.S. Attorney
and this was their reaction to it. And Chelsea Gabbard, you know, she jumped on there and she
blamed Trump and they were playing chicken. You see they were trying to start World War III
so that Governor E. Gay could stand up again and be the governor. Right now his hands are tied.
You know it's interesting you mentioned Chelsea Gabbard because a couple weeks ago I've always
felt that that Chelsea Gabbard was a fair-minded person obviously differing ideologies and politics
from me a conservative. She's obviously a liberal but I always felt that she was fair.
But I felt that last week after seeing some of her tweets and then seeing some of the things she
was saying on TV and then she goes on Tucker Carlson and she's got this new hairdo that she has
like literally like a new witch hairdo. It's really strange. I've never thought Chelsea Gabbard was the
enemy but now I'm actually looking at Chelsea Gabbard and I get a weird strange feeling that
she's gone to the dark side. Well she's a Hindi and you know she backs what she backs. She's very
much the kind of Democrat she is you know. But doesn't that just show you though see that's what
I'm saying. Doesn't that just show you the reaction from these people like Chelsea Gabbard?
Well this just shows we have to negotiate with North Korea. We needed to you know President
Trump's the bad guy. Wait a second. President Trump is the one that was negotiating with North
Korea. President Trump is the one that got North Korea to the table with South Korea. So why so but
that's what I'm saying. See they project that it's them. That's what they do. They think that they
can trick us. Oh well this is a this is an innocent mistake. Someone pushed the wrong button but
but this is Trump's fault. I mean we need to use this to go after Trump. They were playing chicken.
They were trying to start World War three. So you think that so you think that if a fair
investor get you think that that's the backlash here. You think that this is a deep state coup
playing chicken with North Korea to try to start World War three. I think it's a Brian Schatz coup.
I think it's a Tulsi Gabbard coup. I think it's a Maisie Harono coup. Yeah. Yeah man you don't have
to dig far in the deep state man. Go look at the Hawaii Supreme Court. You go look at what they're
doing right now man. These people are in panic. These people are in absolute panic and they can't
even sit at their jobs right now. Mayor Harry Kim, Hawaii County man. I'm telling you I've been
sending letters to Alex Jones you know. He knows what's going on. And I'm telling you man they were
playing chicken. They were mad because Trump didn't push the button for them. And she came back and
blamed Trump. And if you go back through and you take the timeline man. These people are jerks
man. Stupid idiot jerks. Well and there's certainly no supporters of President Trump and his agenda
absolutely. And I think that you're going to get no man. They're just a bunch of stupid race-based
idiots. All right great call from Mary in Hawaii. Good stuff. Aaron I love you. I love you. Thank you
so much. Great caller there. Mary in Hawaii talking about experiencing that alert. You know and it'll
be interesting to find out if a lot of people in Hawaii feel the same way as her. And you could
you could tell the passion and the lack of patience she has for the leadership down there
that has gone fully liberal. But I don't even care. See that's the thing to be.
If you want to have different ideologies and different politics that's fine. We need that.
That's actually what keeps America free from becoming a tyranny if you want to be perfectly
honest. Is that they've gone completely mental and it's not about liberal ideologies.
It's all about removing Trump. It's all about lying to the American public to make Trump look
bad. It's not about policy. It's not about common sense. It's not even about reality for these people.
100% full throttle. Take Trump out no matter what. Even if that means selling your soul out.
Even if that means having no integrity. Even if that means treason. Even if that means going
against common sense. Even if that means going against reality. And that's what Mary is talking
about when she calls in and voices her disgust towards the leadership in Hawaii. Absolutely
correct. Let's go to Gordon also calling in from Hawaii. Go ahead Gordon you're on the air.
Hey how are you doing? This is Gordon and God bless you guys and all of the info warriors out
there. Well thank you. You too. Hey yeah yesterday morning was really crazy. My phone just started
screaming emergency alert and when I read it I couldn't believe it. Did you I mean what was it
like did you did you like were you like oh my gosh this is it or did you kind of have like
an instinctual gut reaction like wait a second no. No I did not think it was the false alarm.
Absolutely in shock and I didn't get real scared. I kind of did I guess but I went
over to the neighbor's house. She hadn't heard about it and then boom her phone went off
and we started figuring out what we were going to do. She's pregnant and we do have lava tubes
around here that you can go into because I live around the country here in Mountain View and
I was just thinking where's the nearest one. I just moved back to Hawaii five months ago.
So you were seeking shelter. Yes yeah but then after and how long did it how long did it take
you all to to realize that it wasn't the real deal. Well after about 10 15 minutes I already knew
that's about how long it would take to get here that nothing happened. Wow you know what that's
a great point it took them longer to correct the false alarm than it would have for a missile to
hit the island. Oh yeah oh yeah. Wow you don't think that was do you think let me ask you do you
think that was intentional. Oh yeah yeah um what about the entire thing what about the false alarm
you believe that was intentional. Yeah I do uh there's gotta be plenty of protocols so that some
idiot can't just push a button and we do have a lot of idiots here I gotta tell you I can't tell
you how many NPR boneheads there are here but uh no there's plenty of protocols so this can't
happen this is a beta test to test people and their reactions a lot of people freaked out I could
hear cars racing around. Wow. This is why we're taking calls from Hawaii today great caller Gordon
yeah it took them longer to correct the mistake than it would have a missile to got there get
there and were they testing the reaction of the public another great question all right we'll be
right back with more your calls. I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body. Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at info warslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public
so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the info war.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new supercharged brain force plus
and fill the rush without the crash. Brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural
activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit
extract that gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological
tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state
of mind. It's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info warslife our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the
night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info warslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info warslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info warslife.com Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread Liberty
worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100 organic coffee on the
planet for more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans we have now
managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag
of the patriot blend 100 organic coffee at info warslife.com this coffee gives you a long smooth
pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me
personally hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or two and I don't
think you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune support infusion
blend you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my
favorite coffee available at info warslife.com you're listening to the Alex Jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's Alex Jones filling in for Alex Jones
oh and shroyer here on a sunday the big story over the weekend false alarm goes out in hawaii
says ballistic missile inbound seek shelter immediately it takes them 30 minutes to correct
this mistake that's longer than it would have taken for the missile to actually hit ground
the FCC is launching an investigation into that we are hearing from the people from hawaii that
had to experience it firsthand let's go right back out to the phone lines to easton calling in
from hawaii easton what was the experience like for you hey oh and uh it was uh i don't know we had
a long night we're out with the boys the night before and i just been woken up by the missile
alert so so you got woken up early in the morning by the alert yeah it was exactly it was like eight
and you're a little foggy from the night before and then what are you thinking and um well i got
my armor plates and you know my ammunition and everything ready to go we had you know my boys
are all calling me on the phone all the soldiers are out there all the info warriors you know what
i mean so so was there kind of what this is interesting i haven't really i haven't really
heard of it heard anything like this are you saying that there was kind of a like a preparedness
response from people that went into action mode yes yes sir there are yeah we saw some of the
videos of the shelters and everything um there's a there's a certain level of preparedness out here
definitely ex-military some of our buddies from high school that kind of thing so what do you think
this was do you think this was an innocent mistake or was this part of the deep state coup to make
trump look bad for me within minutes i was on the you know on google looking for an info wars you
know uh right and that's what alex was saying in the video last night everybody was saying why
aren't you covering it why aren't you covering it so we did the live broadcast but i want to ask
you easton do you think that this was part of the deep state do you think this was part of a
deep state coup to make trump look bad or was this an innocent mistake well the way that they
portrayed it on the news when uh i i don't know exactly what he runs but the guy uh
burn me agi came on and took responsibility for for his um you know his section of of the state
the state department or whatever who's running this was responsible for pressing the wrong button
and they say oh it was a non-redundant system which means you don't need two people to yeah and our
sources are telling us that that's a bunch of bs but should that even be the case that he should be
fired and investigated immediately immediately immediately somebody because people were sending
their kids down the storm drains people were flying it down the highway to go collect their kids from
practice as well i can't even imagine i mean you talk about fake news i mean this is the this is
the antithesis yeah um my mom was ready to load all the food in the car my boys are calling me saying
i loaded all my i loaded all my crap in the car already in the truck all the all the you know
you know all the so this is another example so you so you agree that this was a a conscious a
conscious effort for whatever the thought process was to make trump look bad this was not a mistake
this is definitely something to make the country look weak make the country look unorganized try to
try to make the country scared like it's all trumps fault yeah absolutely i completely agree thank
you for the call eastern let's keep it in hawaii we're taking callers from hawaii on the false
alarm fake news let's go to ed calling in from hawaii ed what do you think was this part of a
deep state coup against president trump uh absolutely owens absolutely i um i i do think
that they basically um so first of all there there's multiple redundancy when they're stating that
there isn't it's nonsense when i first saw the excuse that they pressed the wrong button i actually
um for laughing i put out a bunch of tweets just talking about how ridiculous that was and clearly
isn't that amazing that they think that the public is so stupid that they would fall for that
yeah no they actually well they actually do oh there's just a wall it was just a button we just
hit the wrong button oh okay uh no the response the response from social media was actually
outstanding i'm very proud of people on social media for realizing how ridiculously yeah you
don't want exactly exactly ed you're not pulling the wool over america's eyes anymore the deep state
is exposing themselves man they are going full throttle they don't even care if they do it so
obvious they don't even care if they're so obvious in their coup against trump in their fake news
it's i mean this is unbelievable now the person that they're going to trot out the civil
employee they're going to trot out as the person who quote unquote pushed the button
um is who's gonna potentially cop to this this slide we need to investigate his bank
account potential offshore bank account because that's where we are in our country right now
yeah and that's not the FCC's purview so the FCC can do their investigation but i don't see
how the FCC gets bank account records no they won't so what what we need is we need eight
chan and four chan to focus like a laser beam on the supposed button pusher and find out everything
that we can from public records about this person this is where we are in our country
whatever a pasties put forth you must investigate isn't that amazing just like the vegas shooting
that we're going to be covering more in the second hour today laura lumars going to be
joining me to talk about the recent developments there yeah just like the los vegas shooting
where the fbi gives us nothing gives us nothing if it wasn't for independent researchers on the
internet we wouldn't know anything about steven paddock in fact independent researchers on the
internet forced the police and the fbi to change their narrative including laura lumars so we're
going to be talking about that later so but it's the same thing with this deal oh we just had
someone push the button oh just believe that uh no we're not idiots that's a lie okay well
here's our sacrificial lamb here's the guy to blame let's get a the FCC will investigate that
well let's get the FCC let's get the cia let's get the fbi let's get the irs i mean let's figure out
what was really behind this absolutely oh and i want to make a shout out to all hawaiian residents
that i actually in all honesty did not react at all to the alarm um because i'd already
looked into i live on mawis i looked into the effects of a bomb blast in ronalulu or you know
pearl harbor because that's the military target uh there's no targets on mawis and there's actually
a website that you can um go and see what the blast radius of the biggest bomb known to man
it's a rush called the russian czar bomb mawis 119 miles away from honolulu it wouldn't even come
close so even if this was real i didn't react i finished eating my breakfast in the restaurant
drove home people were flying by me at 100 miles an hour and i my heart rate didn't skip so that's
that's the power of information you need to know yeah and i also believe too that you just have a
gut instinct when you see something like that your gut i mean if there was a i don't know i mean i
believe that there is an extra spiritual metaphysical thing i mean if there was actually a missile
coming down on you you would feel it in your gut i mean i really do believe that i didn't feel it at
all and i mean with the knowledge of the fact that i knew the bomb radius wouldn't come anywhere
close to mawis i you know i did and to be quite honest i didn't believe it was actually a real
threat and i just want to be clear i i'm not in no way shape or form am i and try trying to insult
someone that was freaking out because trust me i mean you get that alert on your phone you got a
family you got kids you know i mean you know absolutely you have every right to freak out
that's not what i'm saying i don't know i i just really feel like i'm in tune with the force right
now if you will and and i think that most americans are now getting in tune with that and they would
feel it i mean you know you would feel that yeah oh and i'm a very high informational person so um
like yourself if you were here with me you wouldn't have freaked out either but let me ask you a
question the crew is actually wondering this and this is a good question because i haven't heard it
addressed were there actually a sounds of alarms going off like bomb raid sirens going off nope nope
there were no raid sirens at all in fact mawi has a system they tested the first of every month i
hear the sirens at noon at noon the first of every month no siren nothing went off here wow so that
means that that's probably a separation of of communication there between whoever has those
sirens their hand on that button if you will and then the button on the emergency alert system
so obviously they weren't coordinated so this was clearly to me and and and all of our callers from
who i would agree this is a deep state coup against president trump our sources were telling alex
jones the same thing last night he did a live broadcast on the alex jones channel this is just
yet another attempt of the deep state coup against president trump to make him look at in fact guys
can you pull up the official emergency alert real quick before break i've lost my clock here you
blocked it out but i want to try to see this one more time before break because did the emergency
alert even say north korea in it you guys have it it didn't say north korea see to me that was
also intentional leave out north korea because you put north korean people might not take it as
seriously because north korea is a joke fuel your body with carnivore the new digestive
enzyme product by infowars life digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the
bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components they
also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles
in the gut digestive enzyme production declines as we age carnivore is filled with digestive
enzymes like those naturally present in the body enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods
again you can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids the building blocks to your muscles
carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals don't let a meal go to waste use carnivore by infowars life
head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now that's infowarslife.com
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels
up up up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of
b vitamins we need every day up up up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day secret 12
combines two bioactive forms of vitamin b12 for optimal absorption up up up optimal absorption
being deficient in b vitamins can cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy secret 12
up up up optimal absorption b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your
intercellular processes b vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain
and nervous system up up up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b12
intake head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12
that's infowarslife.com hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25
years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own
food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and check
out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is
perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals
whoo that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation
like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison
harvest right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation
harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting
for check it out right now at infowarsstore.com introducing fluorolife the new probiotic line
developed exclusively by infowarslife after years of research on the human microbiome
not all probiotics are made the same fluorolife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system
that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is
critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic
then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet fluorolife supports your body's core where
you need it most including digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you
know that over 80 percent of your immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut
probiotic levels is so important for overall health fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for
everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program
head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of fluorolife probiotics today that's infowarslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right we've been taking your calls from hawaii we will continue that later on in the second hour
we're going to be joined by laura loomer at the top of the second hour to discuss the latest
developments in the los vegas shooting still no narrative more questions as the days go by but
that story just gets dropped from the news uh in the meantime though i need to knock out a stack
of this news so let's just hammer this out so senator jeff snowflake from snowflake arizona
he's been anti-trump he's such a failed politician he has to step down after his term
and now he's comparing trump to stalin now this is actually funny to me because
you've got all of these leftists that are comparing trump to hitler comparing trump to these
communist dictators he's such a bad guy he's an authoritarian and a part of me kind of wishes
they were right a part of me kind of wishes that senator jeff snowflake was right that trump was
like stalin you know why because you know where jeff flake would be in a gulag okay in jail
so before you want to call trump stalin ask let's remember what stalin would do to his critics
hmm and then maybe trump should take a page out of stalin's notebook and say okay flake you
want to compare me to stalin i'll treat you like stalin bye bye bye see you in the gulag
but stalin's already uh excuse me jeff flake is already going stalin jeff snowflake stalin
stalin snowflake from arizona is actually already uh removing himself from the government he's
such a failed politician he has to step down speaking of failed politicians however this one
just keeps getting louder you just put a new wig on her and her volume gets turned up maxine waters
meltdown impeach trump for name calling and disrespect of women well i'll be i didn't realize
that you could be impeached for name calling i didn't realize that you could be impeached for
disrespecting women maybe we should ask bill clinton about that but mad maxine just put a new
wig on her turn the volume up and she'll shout impeach at whatever platform you give to her
you're gonna have to point her in the right direction you know she's gonna need some help you
kind of have to shuffle her out there she's a little confused where am i where's the president
this president president what yep maxine just right over there see the microphone just to
say impeach 20 times okay this president must be impeached okay all right great job maxine
whoo where's my wig what is maxine what does maxine waters even do i've done this before but
i've tell you here's a regular day for maxine waters she wakes up she takes about an hour
two three hours to powder her face powder her chrome dome then she takes about half an hour to
straighten her wig out and then she gets on the floor of the hill and cries about trump for an hour
and then she goes out and she does an interview on msnbc for 20 minutes crying about trump
and then calls it a day and goes back to wherever uh wherever she resides takes about two hours to
remove her makeup and then polish her chrome dome before she calls it a night so that's maxine waters
wants to impeach president trump for name calling and disrespecting women maxine waters has lost it
msnbc corrects fake news about panamanian excuse me panamanian panamanian ambassador so mary emily
ohara and msnbc correspondent says nbc confirms with the state department that the us ambassador
to panama john feely has resigned because he no longer feels he can completely serve he can
comfortably serve under president trump feely is the first u.s diplomat to resign over the comments
they had to erase that because it was fake news oh don't you just love it when msnbc puts out fake
news hey if you want to if you want to find msnbc putting out fake news all you have to do is tune
in truly that's simple trump accuses wall street journal of fake news over misquote about kim jung
un and then sarah huckabee sanders blast them on that they have the audio tape of it and you know
wall street journal to me actually you know sometimes they get hit with fake news sometimes
i think they do good stuff over there i don't think they're everyone over there's just unabashedly
against trump but here you go again another example of a news story made to make trump look bad
bad that ends up being total fake news you know you think that these you we do have the audio
yeah guys go ahead and play the audio this is the white house releasing the audio proving
that the wall street journal printed fake news about president trump as you know i have a great
relationship with prime minister opi japan and i probably have a very good relationship
with kim jung and i'd probably have a good relationship with kim jung un and then they
rephrased it and deleted the i would essentially saying oh yes i have a great relationship with
with uh with with kim jung un so they just get caught red-handed in that lie but it's amazing to me
that these media outlets would still be printing fake news about president trump tweeting fake
news about president trump even not even a week after he talks about libel laws and making libel
laws laws a lot more resourceful for people that are being libeled against so just keep
printing fake news about president trump please please keep doing it just make him more upset
and make him think about making libel a more serious issue all right so this is unbelievable
in fact guys just roll the b roll behind me breaking video crazed socialist mobs destroy
h&m stores in south africa over monkey ad so h&m the video is rolling behind me these people are
just destroying the store they're tearing it apart look at how peaceful and loving they are
this is so absurd i just this is just like the teenagers eating the tide pods
you've completely lost your mind you have completely lost your mind when you're inside a
retail store rioting over an ad because it said monkey on a hoodie what what is the big deal what
kids like monkeys oh my gosh kids like monkeys shocking nobody ever has a pet a little stuffed
monkey you know when they're when they're young i remember there were beanie babies i used to have
beanie baby monkeys i mean whatever so they so they think the hoodie is insensitive and so then
they go out and they tear the h&m store apart i thought floyd mayweather's response was much
better he just took the hoodie and the kid in the hoodie and just said black is beautiful on it
instead of coolest monkey in the jungle again why does that have to be a black thing if we all if
we're all evolved from the same people if we're all evolved from monkeys you know they tell us that
we all evolved from monkeys apparently i'm a monkey's uncle here but i can't wear a hoodie that says
coolest monkey in the jungle and so then these socialists go out and destroy the h&m stores
because they're lunatics but floyd mayweather the right response he puts out the same thing and it
just says black is beautiful i thought it was hilarious a perfect troll someone should have
done that with white is beautiful just to troll him even harder they would have gotten so mad
but there they are oh just peacefully responding peacefully responding to the h&m store selling
a hoodie that says coolest monkey in the jungle wow so now you've got the liberals projecting
crap hole onto trump hole hotel it's amazing these people use this exact verbiage this exact
language to describe trump insulting him with slurs and curse words but if he says it it's a bad
thing and then april ryan i mean you want she's coming completely unhinged she says brown people
should call airlines and book flights to crap hole countries well why don't you go live in west africa
april ryan why don't you go live in hady april ryan people are all frauds just like global warming
oh we're all warming the planet by driving cars and then they go hop on their jumbo jet
private jumbo jet then they go hop on their yacht oh i can't believe trump said crap hole
countries and then they say trump's a crap hole i mean these are the biggest frauds but the good
news is people are figuring it out and the other good news is we are defeating the fake news and
it's all possible by you going to infowarstore.com now you're hearing about twitter wanting to censor
us facebook google youtube they're all trying to censor us folks but you are our power you are the
force that beats the censorship you are the you are the shield piercing arrow of their censorship
that beats them at infowarstore.com so we've got great specials going on this is how we're funded
by you not big banks not big pharmaceutical companies not fast food chains you the end user
infowarstore.com look at some of these specials 50% off secret 12 vitamin b12 right now 50%
off survival shield x2 those are game changing products 50% off super male vitality 50% off
alpha power i just started taking alpha power that is the real deal folks that is the real deal
check out alpha power cell force 50% off that's another new product two of those products are
new we just introduced them at 50% off including the new the real red pill and you've got the
latest product at infowarstore.com immune wall immune wall the latest product at infowarstore.com
and that is at an introductory rate of 25% off so you make everything possible we expand we
build new studios we do more reports on the scene we hire more people it's all thanks to you at
infowarstore.com thank you so much for your support and with your continued support we will continue
to expand to the next level in the next hour laura loomer joins me we've got breaking news on the
vegas massacre don't go anywhere vitamin mineral fusion visit infowarslife.com to secure your
vitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral products
and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're funding the tip of the spear in the info war that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win
number one when you choose auto ship before check out we give you 10% off on your order at infowarsore.com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50
and all the new auto ship feature in infowarslife.com this is a sure win 10% off on auto ship win win win at infowarslife.com free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
you're listening to the alex jones show
another time in the age of wonder another world another time
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance line from austin texas broadcasting world wide it's alex jones
talking about having to swing your focus we go from the top of the show talking about the deep state coup against president trump and how this false alarm in hawaii looks like it was part of that now i have to be honest i haven't been fully paying attention to the newest developments in the
lost vegas shooting but i was just looking at some of the recent stuff here because we're about to have laura lumeron my goodness i mean this is breaking news this is huge stuff so it just gets more interesting and more interesting we're about to go to laura here but first here's a report from leanne new reports are showing that perhaps mary lew danley the
shooter's girlfriend may have known that something was about to happen new details in the lost vegas massacre suggests steven paddock's girlfriend may have known something was up according to newly released fbi documents mary lew danley deleted her facebook account one hour before the lost vegas cops named paddock as the man responsible for the deadliest mass shooting in modern us history 58 people were killed and more than 200 were
wounded the unsealed documents give the timeline emergency calls to police indicate paddock began firing onto the crowd of concert goers around 10 0 8 p.m. at 2 46 a.m. danley's facebook account was deleted and just about an hour later authorities released paddock's name to the public at 3 30 a.m.
now danley has remained adamant that she had no prior inclination of paddock's intentions to conduct the attack but her actions suggest otherwise if danley moved quickly after the shooting to hide her relationship with steven paddock what did she know and when leanne macadoo info wars dot com
so i'm just trying to recall in all the information that we covered with the vegas shooting you've got what we would all believe had to be a multiple shooter event essentially confirmed with multiple video reports live videos from the scene and then multiple police tapes and police reports with multiple people being shot at and even shot in multiple different locations so you've got all that going on
you've got the helicopters in the area that story develops you've got then the the most latest breaking stuff was they didn't even complete autopsies on all of the the dead bodies from that night
so it's just all of these conflicting stories we get nothing from the fbi we get nothing from the police i was crediting laura loomer and other investigators out there independently they've done more work then at least that we've been allowed to know of then the fbi
they have forced the fbi and the police to in fact change their official reports i mean you want to talk about breakthrough journalism that is the definition when you're beating the actual authorities at their job that is of course if they're not ordered to carry out a cover up
which becomes more and more apparent to me as we get these developments so laura in the quick 60 seconds here before the break what are you going to break down here in the next segment
well i'm going to go through this newly released information that is uh now being seen in the more than 300 pages of unsealed fbi search warrants into steven paddock's home his hotel room his devices mary lou damley's devices
but you know i want to make something very clear that report that you just uh read off from leanne that's not new information right investigators like myself and others on the internet who have been looking into this independently
broke that information literally hours after the las vegas shooting happened so i just find it interesting that now the mainstream media has shown up so late to this party right and they're literally reporting information as breaking news that was already reported three months ago
all right so in the other side we're going to break this down there's other developments in this that laura lumar has found one though there's one specific development
that to me proves that there is not just a cover-up going on but this entire thing was planned from the beginning as far as the cover-ups concern when you hear about what you're going to hear on the other side laura lumar's the guest don't go anywhere this is the alex joneshell
thirty at a rate of about one to two percent per year this drop can show signs such as fatigue low energy low sex drive and muscle loss alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market the secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into their most
potent forms including urecoma longia folia originally from alaysia makaroo from peru horny goatweed from china and tribulus from india reach your alpha male potential with alpha power get alpha power now at fifty percent off and secure your bottle today
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny will so does he lie from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
i want you're filling in for alex jones today a lot of questions still remain in the los vegas massacre which again it didn't even happen half a year ago we still don't have a motive more questions and answers and you just go back and you look at all the anomalies you look at all the lies and it just doesn't look good to try to sit here and report on this and say well i'm sure this is the real thing
well i'm sure this is the real story no there seems to be a distinct cover-up going on what were the ties to the vegas massacre and isis and what are the developments in saudi arabia what potential ties do we have to the vegas massacre and radical leftists what potential ties
does steven paddock have to potentially gun running for certain government agencies these are all questions that remain to be answered but the latest development that i think laura to me shows a cover-up more than anything is you have now reported that one of the police officers involved in this has now received a cushy security job at a casino in los vegas tell us more about that laura
yeah so i first reported this several weeks ago and if you look at the upper management at lvm pd who's you know leading this investigation with the fbi you have sherif lombardo you have assistant sherif kevin mcmayhill and then you are under sherif kevin mcmayhill and assistant sherif todd posulo
within the past three months since the shooting sherif lombardo has been in talks to be taking a job with dhs there's been reports i reported that he's not running for reelection kevin mcmayhill is in talks to take a security job with raiders stadium and then
oh my gosh
actually left just as i predicted he left and just was assigned a position as the director for crisis management at win in los vegas right when we're
just as i predicted two or three months ago i said that these officials were going to be running for the hills as more information came out that this was a cover-up and they would be leaving to take cushy jobs within the casino
which is what all of these corrupt los vegas metropolitan police department officials do
and if you look at these these reports that are now released as a friday night there's just more evidence that we've been lied to by the fbi and lvm pd the thing that's most concerning to me is this email correspondence if you if you look at these documents the fbi
identified an email address that was being used to communicate with steven paddock in which they're talking about the weapons used in the los vegas shooting and investigators even said in this report that they believe that these correspondences between these two
email addresses um had something to do with the shooting so that by definition means that there is a co-conspirator or some type of accomplice and they found out that the fbi was well aware that steven paddock had a large cache of weapons
exactly so yet again just another thing that we've talked about on this program before is the fbi's uh for knowledge of events before they take place or for knowledge of terrorists or individuals and of course they had knowledge right because a lot of this evidence now is suggesting
that steven paddock really isn't just some lone wolf shooter just some nobody guy who had no training it's really starting to look as if there's deeper ties here and that steven paddock may be some type of informant or government agent who was participating in some type of gun running
activity and if you look at the reports and you look at the information and you just core if you just compare the dates of information released to the public and the dates that are on these official documents we have been lied to they are conducting a
public information campaign about the facts surrounding the las vegas shooting they told us assistant sheriff was sulo told us on october 2nd in a press conference that they were confident that steven paddock was the sole gunman in the las vegas shooting and then if you look at this report which was officially filed on october 13th they're
suggesting that there are co-conspirators and accomplices how can you tell the american public that steven paddock is the only shooter when you haven't even finished your search warrants as of the date indicated on the report
he didn't even protect the guy's house his house gets looted and rated like two days later i'll be honest with you laura i'm not even convinced even paddock pulled the trigger i'm not even convinced because i think i mean look at what we got here we have a situation where they're trying to distract from the real
story here which is this was a mass attack okay this was a mass attack you had multiple shooters at multiple venues you potentially had shooters on a helicopter yeah i don't even want to say that but unfortunately the reports indicate
that could also be true you have to do not forget that they tried to blow up in a tank of gasoline at the airport this was a mass terror attack on our country and they're totally distracting us with steven paddock and not even giving us the truth about him
yeah and look ices took responsibility i'm going to repeat myself again as i've done on this program ices has taken responsibility for the las vegas shooting four times right not once not twice not three times we're talking about four times
that ices has taken responsibility for the las vegas shooting and even indicated prior to the attack that they were going to be attacking las vegas in some type of music venue or concert or sporting event and somehow these these anonymous
you know four-chan reddit posts indicate exactly what was going to happen just months before i mean it's the craziest stuff ever
well not only that but ten months prior to the shooting dhs conducted a joint training mission with lvm pd to focus on whether there would be like some type of terror attack at a concert or some type of
mass shooting event and so the department of public security literally was preparing lvm pd prior to the shooting for for the events that took place so it's you know they they definitely had poor knowledge of an incident ices warned us
this is the problem with the media trying to prevent americans from really understanding the true terror threat in this country and dhs lies in deception regarding the actual threat of Islamic terrorism in this country and around the world
they're constantly telling us that ices isn't here that there is no threat of ices that ices is contained or that you know they're under control when really ices is actually planning attacks and they're very serious about the things that they're
promising to do in these propaganda videos right they threaten to attack las vegas they attack las vegas they threaten to attack new york in the past three months new york city has been attacked two times by ices terrorists
i want to know why is the department of homeland security and local law enforcement in las vegas trying to deceive the american public and really not inform them of the true terror threat that surrounds them i mean it just seems like an attempt to further endanger society
well and let's be perfectly clear here the borders were wide open to this country and some people might say that was intentionally done by the obama administration to get ices in here and then if god forbid hillary clinton becomes president you just let ices run wild and you initiate
martial law shut down the internet whatever it is hillary clinton would have done in that situation we get trump and he wants to fight against it and now you have the fbi and and other people actually trying to deal with these terrorists that are here domestically but just to prove what laura is
talking about let's find the story guys i believe it was general kelly said that if you knew what i knew about terrorism you would not even leave your house pull that up guys think about what do you think he's saying do you think he's talking about
random jewish people running around stabbing people uh no in the yamaka no i don't think that what about people yelling around saying praise jesus and then and slaughtering people in the streets no
no not not seeing that go go on either not seeing that happen with buddhists no it seems to be one group of people and that's the radical islamic people so who do you think general kelly is talking about when he says if you knew what i knew about terrorism you wouldn't leave your house
muslims obviously i mean let's just say it like it is right i mean it's always muslims
and let's be perfectly clear you too because we're going to talk about this morning the other break and let's be perfectly clear too because people are confused
at info wars coverage of this yes this is so difficult yes i do believe we were lied to about 9 11 and i do believe that we went to wars in the middle east for other reasons than just our safety or against muslims but let's recall here
so the people want to sit here and say oh well you know we can't keep muslims out of this country that's rude that's racist we're bombing their nations
okay we are bombing these people and if you don't think for one second they want to come here when the borders are wide open and kill americans you have to be the dumbest fool i have ever heard of in my life
so if you're going to sit here and complain about us foreign wars in the middle east you better realize they're complaining too and they want to come here and murder you and barack obama allowed it to happen with wide open borders
president trump is finally doing something about it perhaps the fbi is too and that's why general kelly says if you knew what i knew about terrorism you wouldn't live your house that's because radical muslims are embedded in this country now
and they have they have a network thanks to president hezbollah president hussain hezbollah we'll have more on this on their side with laura luma
matt in ohio you're on the air another matt go ahead
yeah hey listen i just wanted to say real quick i'm a long time listener of uh info wars and i just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the info war it might seem like a simple thing but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing
well thank you my favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't tread on me and it's a big day glow snake gads and snake and then it's got the american flag info wars dot com on the right arm
i mean that's a great way just to meet like minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech and the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt trigger warning t-shirt
which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign in the info wars dot com on the back that is the new share of the mind available exclusively in info wars store dot com
maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality we're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality
our ultimate non-gmo formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency
super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals info wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products
our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males
support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality and energize your life take control of your body
grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com
discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com
this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally
hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers
drop by the site today order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune support infusion blend
you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com
this coffee is made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash
and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times
instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine
notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com
that's infowarsstore.com
so when I saw the recent stories that Laura Loomer was breaking about Las Vegas police department members taking new cushy jobs right on the heels of this Vegas massacre
I couldn't help but recall what happened at the Boston Marathon bombing now the crazy thing about this is the Boston Marathon bombing for me was a life changing experience because it woke me up
essentially my red pill my moment in the sun my moment of illumination when I realized how fake news is and how we're basically just lied to by authorities about all these things
so that's how it started with me and so when I heard about the reports of the Las Vegas police department members taking these new cushy jobs I thought wait a second
that's exactly what happened in the FBI and the Boston police department after the Boston Marathon bombing so there's Rich DeLaurier the liar from the FBI that was in charge of the Boston Marathon bombing investigation
immediately after that he steps down to take a private sector job a nice cushy job I forget what that was exactly but there's Rich DeLaurier then you have Ed Davis who is the Boston police chief at the time of the Boston Marathon bombing
immediately after that he resigns and takes a new job a new cushy job in the private sector and then opens up his own LLC
so this is a common story anytime you have an event like this that I measure up as a cover up everyone involved in the investigation flees the scene as Laura was reporting and goes into the private sector
so what do you think the the big story here is Laura at least what need what people need to be focusing on right now that you're discovering from the Las Vegas cover up
people need to be focusing on what people need to realize if you want to have a real red pill moment is that the FBI lies to you right the FBI always has for knowledge of these Islamic terrorist events as we've seen in the past
you mentioned the Boston bombers for example they were tracking these terrorists they asked the American public hey do you recognize this person the guy was an FBI CIA asset you're you're telling me that they needed our help identifying him
give me a break yeah and if you already know this information why are you seeking the public's help in identifying these people and getting information when you already have a case file on them because you've identified them as possible Islamic terrorists
what I want to know is why is the FBI there identifying these these these individuals who are very problematic who always tend to be Muslim why aren't they neutralizing them or why aren't they taking care of them before they commit these horrible acts like the Boston bombing
so the same thing happened with the Pulse nightclub terrorists right the FBI had a file on them and then you see the same thing with a lot of these officials and changes in Orlando the same thing happening in Boston and the same thing happening in Las Vegas it's because all of these all of these law enforcement
agencies are so tied in together and when you know when people say it's a cover up or it's it's a plot by the US government to make you unaware of the actual terror threat in your country that's not a conspiracy theory okay if you look at all the documents
there's three of these attacks if you look at 911 you look at polls you look at Boston and now you look at Las Vegas which is possibly an ISIS terrorist attack you have these common themes of of FBI agents and law enforcement officials lying to you and not really
given you the full story on these individuals and what they knew about these individuals prior to them carrying out these horrendous acts of terrorism
do you think about the new evidence that is confirming what we already believed that there had to at least be accomplices with Steven Paddock but but but more so that this was a very well thought out and planned event by multiple people
it's what I've been saying for the past three months I mean independent reports and investigations and video footage on the ground from the night of the shooting already proved this and I want to make something very clear the FBI didn't willingly release these documents
they were pursued by multiple media organizations across the country across the world to release this information and there's a hearing in Las Vegas on Tuesday open to the public suing me for the same thing that regarding LVMPD to get their search warrants
released right because you have the LVMPD records and then you have the FBI so it's not like they're trying to be transparent and tell us about this information they were literally taken to court okay
that's just another thing I want people looking into this investigation to understand is that they're doing everything in their power to prevent us independent media and you know others in mainstream media and just the American public in general from knowing the facts of this case
I'll go ahead and I'll play devil's advocate here and I'll say well maybe they're having an ongoing investigation and they just don't want any information out there and they're afraid that it might you know ruin whatever investigation they have but to me that doesn't really hold up
because they're not just not trying to release information they're intentionally spreading misinformation and trying to cover this thing up it'd be one thing if they were just like every time like look we cannot share the details it's an ongoing investigation
if they were at least parroting that point we'd be like okay you know what fine that's kind of what we expect but they say things that are wrong they tell us things that are lies they tell us things that are not possible that to me is the red flag
there's a difference between saying it's an ongoing investigation when you please respect what we're doing here and then saying oh yeah just a lone shooter oh yeah just this weapon and then you find out
wait no you lied about that you lied about the date you lied about the weapon you lied about no accomplices now you're just liars
yeah exactly and just like you saw when I confronted the sheriff at his press conference with the FBI I proved I said why are you lying to the American public you're telling us he checked in on the 28th they kicked you out after that too they didn't even let you anywhere near the building after that
if you look at these official documents it literally is not possible for them to say on the second one day after the shooting that Steven Paddock was the sole shooter and then search more documents that haven't even been approved yet to be dated for October 6
how are you going to declare Steven Paddock the only shooter without accomplices when you haven't even been given authority to conduct the search warrants on October 6 with just four days later
and then you look at the date on the official report that was sealed that's October 13 we're talking about an 11 day difference right between the facts so you know if that is improved that they've been lying to you on top of what we've already shown you
prior to the release of these documents then I don't know I mean I don't I don't think that you can really call yourself sane or intellectual or an independent thinker if you haven't been able to realize that there is a cover-up and a misinformation
campaign taking place regarding the Las Vegas shooting investigation and there's so many different angles I mean I'm just going back and trying to remember you have the security officer Jesus Campos whose story changes seemingly overnight
he disappears then reappears on Ellen DeGeneres who has steak in Vegas with her casino you know ties and businesses that she's got going on there so that's a little sketchy then that story just disappears
Jesus Campos just comes and goes they change the narrative there he's gone I'd like to know who was in charge of supposedly protecting Stephen Paddock's house while that was a obviously a point of emphasis a point of interest there and then magically security from his house just disappears
his house gets broken into that night and then they realize oh yeah I guess we well I guess we better keep security on who called the security off the house how come security wasn't already there the whole time I mean this is this is really just unbelievable 40 seconds final comments
exactly and you know I haven't been on the show in a while but on Christmas day I remember I reported that Jesus Campos has actually been promoted to another security position within another guy that gets a promotion from it
so he's been promoted to the MGM headquarters security building to identify threats to MGM how is he going to do that when he couldn't even do his job at Mandalay Bay doesn't seem like he's very good at identifying any type of threat
it's really incredible who knows if or when we'll ever get the truth Laura Loomer great work covering this we're going to be right back with more we're going to somehow have to sidle away from that and get back into the false alarm in Hawaii over the weekend we'll take your calls from Hawaii don't go anywhere
Mike in Arizona you're on the air worldwide go ahead
Oh Alex you can rent any day of the week thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well
and as a long time infowars listener I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex thank you I use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome
and thank you so much Alex for the infowars life products they are quality I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely
because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves we can take our country back
top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it
well for starters don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new supercharged brain force plus and fill the rest without the crash
brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin B 12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind
it's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com
I want to plow into all of this I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com I want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults
we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or triple A 253 3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
to maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to infowarstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something
it is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals that's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison
harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the foods taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at infowarstore.com
so
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
today he will be back tomorrow on the Alex Jones show of course our full line of broadcast as usual every weekday David Knight 8 a.m. in the morning he goes to the Alex Jones show at 11 and then I close it out with the war room and Roger Stone at 3 o'clock till 6 p.m.
on the broadcast schedule at info wars dot com slash show thanks to your support at infowarstore.com we promise to continue our expansion in the face of the globalist with your continued support at infowarstore.com let's go back out to the phone lines we are still thinking about the big story from this weekend the
false alarm in Hawaii we go back to our callers from Hawaii talking about their experience that day let's start with Tyson from Hawaii Tyson what was it like that day when you got the emergency alert.
Well it's great to talk with you I'm calling to you from the bash of liberal insanity here in Hawaii unlike our previous callers I do live within a fairly close eight mile radius of the Honolulu so I had to think about that factor but I wanted to overdrive mode once I confirmed that this
alert actually was not just a hack I went to my cousin's house next door and he confirmed it was real than when I saw it on TV giving some detailed instructions I grabbed my son jumped in my truck to grab some diesel fuel because.
I gotta stop you right there I gotta stop you right there this is a new angle I haven't heard about this what were they reporting on television after the alert.
Well okay here's the deal Owen they have the alert that goes out on the emergency broadcast on your phone which is primarily flash flood but when I got at the sky was crystal blue right not a flash or like an amber alert to yeah yeah.
In a sense but on the TV it's much more descriptive it scrolls across the old miss game the basketball game and says get inside stay inside take shelter close the windows okay okay so there was also an emergency alert on the television.
Absolutely yeah TV systems are linked only the third tier of the link the last leg was the sirens and the only place the sirens went off we're on the military bases now we're not sure who made that call they're looking into that.
Yeah so it sounds like what we're learning here is there's obviously a separation between the people that launched those emergency alerts and the people that sound the sirens.
Oh that's a that's a known factor the military are actually the ones that sound the sirens are covered the command comes down from back home who are monitoring the X the radar throughout the Pacific basin.
So what do you think this is do you think this was a deep state coup against Trump to make him look bad wasn't an honest mistake and what do you think the backlash is.
Well let's take a look at the facts we have to take a look at what our political figures the very first thing they did right out of the gate.
While I was watching TV with a live stream from our local broadcast was calling it took Colleen Honabusa less than 30 seconds to pivot this back on Trump.
But it's basically his fault you escalate so called escalate the situation and I knew right then and there is like really you're not worried about the poor parents who are looking their kids in the eyes and doesn't that tell the story though.
I think Tyson nails it right here and you're not the first caller that suggests this from Hawaii I think that that nails it doesn't that tell you the story that the first response from the politicians in Hawaii was oh this is what Trump's done.
Look at what Trump's done not folks you know pray to God and save your family let's we're in this together to me tells it all.
Well I mean okay for example I grabbed my son and I'm going around the curve to grab some diesel fuel and I had to put my hand on his thigh because he was breaking down crying and I was having a hard time holding back and I said son just stick with me on this be my little helper we're going to get through this thing.
And to the father who loves my kids more than I love myself to have to do that is cruel and unusual and you know what you're Tyson you're in my head you're in my head.
The treason that these people you know we had we had people running our government that are probably guilty of treason for a long time but what they have done since Trump is elected is not just selling this country out.
They are literally throwing the entire republic under the bus crapping on every American out there no holds barred.
I mean just they just tear down society burn culture to the ground make children in Hawaii feel like their lives are in danger.
I'm praying that we find out who's really behind this and the whole Russian fake dossier we need to arrest all these treasonous people now I'm done with these people trying to ruin this country man.
Here's another one Owen so we got the guy who's at the defense civil defense office are doing so called change of ship drill basically at the time they.
Oh there's a drill going on to yeah.
So they simulate this drill and you got two buttons on the screen basically a mouse click so the button on the left is the real thing and the button on the right is the drill.
And so the hot the reporter from Hawaii News now asks Vince Miyagi who I've met.
So isn't there some sort of double check like you can't even delete a file your windows system without asking you 13 times if you really want to totally lying about that one button give me a break.
No there is a redundant system and Mr. Miyagi said yes there is a do you really want to do this button so this so called employee who they have not released his name.
Very interesting there is theory that if they did bad things what happened to him.
Yeah he should be fired and investigated.
Oh no no no the unions in Hawaii aren't like that you can't you don't get fired from screwing up.
I hate you know man for a retraining program.
I heard that online all this morning he's going to be a quote unquote retrained.
No yeah unions love you HGA so so basically they won't release his name so who is this mystery employee and how can you click the button.
Boom yes it's a drill and boom I really want to do it but actually hit the wrong button this says this is the real McCoy.
But the emotional damage to the my neighbors there's a pair home across the street old folks I ran across the street who's on a ventilator who's on life support over here do you guys need power I have a generator system.
I'm a prepper I've got fish I've got rabbits I've got everything but enough diesel fuel on hand obviously so so she saw me she's I wonder if I wonder if anyone actually like suffered like cardiac arrest or something from this.
Did anyone die from this false alarm.
What's that you know what I'm sorry you broke up what was there any loss of life from this false alarm like you know maybe an elderly man has like a heart attack heart attack or something.
Well I don't know but take a look at this kid that's being lowered down into a storm drain you know what kind of gases live in storm drains.
Okay that's where methane methane evolves up from these storm drains right so here's this father trying to provide his beautiful daughter which I have one of those as much protection as he can see fit into 10 minutes you got.
I'm lowering down in this storm drain that's just the most publicized example and how do you look you know what this is unbelievable thank you so much for the call Tyson I'm sorry folks this was such a this was such a false flag.
This was such an attempt to make Trump look bad you can tell because of their response you can tell because it took them so long to correct record why wouldn't you immediately right after you sent out emergency alert you knew it went out you knew it wasn't true why didn't you
immediately send out another one why didn't you immediately correct the record immediately this was this was a false flag against our president Trump and the reaction from the politicians in Hawaii prove it do you understand.
That the powers that be the corrupt politicians and the deep state are literally willing to burn this country to the ground right now to stop president Trump and to stop his agenda that's how you know how real he is.
They will torture the people of Hawaii with a false report of a missile coming at them and then they won't even tell him it's false.
They will tell you all of this fake news about president Trump.
Oh he gropes women.
Oh he's a Russian they'll start huge investigations waste taxpayer dollars they'll have Oprah Winfrey go on the stage of the Golden Globes and say I'm all about the me too movement while she's pimping women out to Harvey Weinstein the whole time.
These people are trying to burn this country to the ground just because of president Trump just because we elected a real person just because we the American people took the country back just because we the people want to control our destiny.
They're trying to squander it and lie us into a complete scorched earth.
I'm done with this man.
Whoever was behind this they all want to be arrested all of them behind the Trump Russia dossier all of them behind this is just I'm sick of it man.
I cannot believe that they would go with this false alert.
Not correct the record immediately leave it out there for 30 minutes 30 minutes people of Hawaii are thinking they're under a missile attack and what do the politicians of Hawaii say.
Well this is what happens because of president Trump you knew it was fake you probably planned it.
I'm sorry I'm getting fired up about this just the fact that they would put that out and now you have traumatized children.
We're going to have more of your calls on this on the other side the deep state is freaking out and it's all because president Trump and the American people are alive.
It's to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press.
All the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com.
Dr. Group you developed living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright well I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today. It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com and folks you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body period and you support the broadcast.
infowarslife.com. Thank you Dr. Group from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product.
Alright I'm gonna hit a couple news stories here and then go back to your calls in Hawaii.
You know this is an interesting story that actually gives me hope because I think it's very indicative of what we've been dealing with over the last two years.
You've probably heard of the artist Moby and he's done some interesting videos in the past.
But Moby claims that the CIA told him to promote the fake dossier claims and we've got this video.
I'm not gonna have time because I wanted to get to your calls but he talks about active and former CIA agents convincing him that the dossier was the real deal.
That Trump was basically a puppet of Putin. This is a real deal. You need to help us make awareness of this.
So here's why this story gives me hope and this is what the audience needs to explain or needs to understand.
Forget about the controlled aspect of the entertainment industry. That's not what I'm talking about here. We all know that goes on.
What I'm talking about is you had members of the CIA, members of the intelligence community going to these artists and going to these members of Congress.
This is where it's key. You see they go to the members of Congress and they say hey look we've got some serious problems here with Trump and Russia.
Russia's got serious blackmail. Trump's got serious ties. It looks like this is basically a coordinated effort being led by Putin.
So you've got the directors of these intelligence agencies going to these members of Congress, selling them this bill of goods.
And the members of Congress, they don't know what's going on. They have no reason I suppose not to believe this intelligence.
So they're sitting there kind of like whoa okay I guess this is the real deal. I mean we'll take this seriously.
So they're going out spreading all of these lies, the clappers, the Brennans, spreading all of these lies, telling the members of Congress.
They've got the members of Congress believing it about two years ago, a year ago, so they're all believing this.
But now here we are and it's all coming out. Wait a second, it's all a lie. Wait a second, it was all fabricated.
So now you've got Moby that's like wow the CIA came to me and they tried to get me to spread this fake news on this Russian dossier thing.
What's up with that? You've got all these members of Congress that were originally like oh boy I don't know I can't go along with this Trump.
He might be a Russian agent who are now like wait a second Trump's not a Russian agent. He's helping America. America's back on its feet.
The Russian dossier was fake. So now all of that pressure applied by the intelligence agencies and the deep state to fall for this Russian story has completely fallen apart.
So now you've got members of Congress that are like okay that was obviously bogus. No reason for me to be afraid of President Trump now.
And soon you're going to have members of the entertainment industry that are the same way. Just real people that just bought the lies from the intelligence communities that are now realizing it.
This is nothing but lies. This is nothing but a deep state coup against Trump.
So that's the good news about this to me is that people are realizing now that they've been lied to. Members of Congress, people in the entertainment industry that fell for the Trump Russia thing at first
because I mean people came to them very seriously like hey look this is the real deal. No. Now it all turns out to be fake.
Alright. A couple new news stories. African migrants bring untreatable form of tuberculosis to Europe. Yeah that's why you have borders. That's why you have walls.
That's why you don't just have an open immigration system. You have protections. It's called self-preservation.
But then the Pope says it's a sin if you fear migrants. So even if they're bringing in untreatable diseases of tuberculosis, burning cities to the ground, making no go zones, you're sinful if that makes you fearful.
Just like an Islamophobe. If you just witnessed a terror attack in New York City where a radical Islamic runs people over in a car and then you're afraid of radical Islamic terror, you're an Islamophobe.
Don't you know that? Government to resume processing DACA renewals, citing judge rulings. So you've got all these Obama appointee judges that are just basically going against the president, going against the mandate from the American people
and just bringing in as many non-citizens as they can, trying to get them on the voter log so that they can vote Democrat. They already admitted that's their plan.
Now we know it. Trump head faked, made them think he was going to make a DACA deal and then said no. Let's go back out to Hawaii. Let's go to Trevor from Hawaii.
Trevor, what do you think is behind the false alarm that went out in Hawaii?
You know, I'm not entirely sure. I think it could be like a hack or perhaps a troll or a rib or a little razz by some of the 4chan types.
Because if you look at how it is raised, the exclamation point just doesn't seem like something official to me like that would be put out.
Let's pull up the official, hey guys, pull up the official thing again. Go ahead.
But I think this has to do with the CNN and they've lost their credibility and they are just wondering what do I got to do to these people to make them listen to us again.
They're going to, and they're using Hawaii as a little controlled, little island of just subjects to see what happened when they tell everybody that a nuclear fire show is going to hit super hard right now.
See what happened. Are they prepared? Who's prepared? I'll tell you who was prepared.
It was the ex-military people and it was the conservatives, the leftists, those people, they're out here running around like chickens with their heads cut off.
They didn't even have water, they didn't have diesel fuel, they didn't have anything.
Okay, so I think these people are just feeling what they can do. That's why I took them a half of an hour. That's why I took them 30 fall minutes to receive their warning to everyone because they just wanted to watch.
They wanted to gather and collect data.
And they wanted to put their message out there of propaganda against President Trump too. You notice how that's what they did.
They wanted to induce a Dr. Strangewell type of stuff.
Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, you just hit it on the head.
President Trump to push the button and set the war into a state of just a pile of chaos.
Actually, okay, oh my gosh, he just hit it on the head. So here's what they do. Thank you so much for the call, Trevor.
Trevor getting fired up. Oh my gosh, this is what they did.
They put out the fake alert and they send the people of Hawaii into a panic and then what do they do?
They associate it with President Trump. So that's the, oh my gosh, that's the psychological battle.
Put you in a state of emergency, put you in a state of panic, and then have you direct and project that onto President Trump as if it's his fault.
And they thought they could get away with it. Just like they thought they could get away with the fake Russian collusion narrative.
This is just unbelievable. Let's go to Chris in Hawaii. Chris, what do you think is behind the fake alert?
How's it going on? I just want to say I've been a huge fan since I've seen you as the Cuck Slayer back in Cleveland in 2016.
A good job doing that. And the products are great. Living out in Hawaii, you need the X2 after Fukushima and everything that's going on here.
Survival Shield X2, 50% off right now at infowarstore.com.
Oh, absolutely. I'll talk more about the products, but I know I don't have much time left, but my family uses them all.
The Alpha Male is excellent as, or no, Alpha Power, excuse me, it's not Alpha Male, it's the X1 as well.
My wife really appreciates it too. But to the real deal, I just want to be the devil's advocate here.
Being born and raised here, we are run by a bunch of idiots in Hawaii.
It would not surprise me at all if the nepotism in the hiring system in our state and local county government caused this to happen.
Okay, but let me just pause you up right there because I'll hear you out here.
If that is the case, you understand how desperately pathetic that is because there are multiple fail safes.
And then they didn't even put out a correction. If that's true, you're literally talking about the dumbest of the dumb.
I agree with you 100%. My sister, who moved to Las Vegas, she texted me immediately saying,
oh, you know it's somebody's cousin that hit that button, and I said, yep, you know it's right.
So you think this is just low IQ, moronic, Democrat leadership in Hawaii?
I just, I want you to know that I'm 100% behind the influence on everything, 100% behind the Las Vegas.
What Loomer has to say about it, but as far as the state I'm born and raised in, I hate to say it, but we are run by idiots.
We are run by people that just do not know what's going on. And I could give you example upon example.
Hey, we don't screen your calls. I want everyone's opinions. That's why we're taking calls from Hawaii.
I mean, I know that you guys have loony liberals that are running the place out there. You got welfare states going on.
I mean, luckily it's still a beautiful place and you don't have too many dregs.
But yeah, you do have liberal leadership out there that's completely crazy.
Thank you so much for the call, Chris. I'm sorry, we got to go here.
Final minute of the show. We're going to have Alex, I mean, obviously Alex is going to have the breaking news on this tomorrow,
on the Alex Jones show. He'll be breaking it down from 11 a.m. Central right through to 3 p.m. Central.
And then I'll take over on the war room. David Knight, of course, in the mornings at 8 a.m.
So we'll have the developing news from this.
But to me, this looks like a deep state operation against President Trump, a total false flag to send negative emotion to President Trump
where it doesn't belong, when really this is a blatant attack on the people of Hawaii and the American people.
And whoever is responsible for this needs to be known and needs to tell us exactly what happened.
Folks, this entire thing is possible.
Ten hours of live broadcasts every weekday at Infowars.com slash show.
Because of your support at InfowarsStore.com.
We've got great specials. You just heard the caller talking about Survival Shield X2.
That is a must have product, a game changing product.
It's 50% off right now.
We've got all kinds of products, 50% off right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Hats, toothpaste, shirts, everything that you could need in your house, shampoo, body wash, hand soap.
It's all at InfowarsStore.com. Shop with the good guys.
Help us expand in 2018.
And as always, you stay classy, Infowariers.
And your wallet.
Floorlife supports your body's core, where you need it most.
Including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why.
Increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Floorlife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care.
And a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfowarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of Floorlife probiotics today.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products.
Click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win.
And with the new AutoShip feature at InfowarsLife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip.
Win, win, win at InfowarsLife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all AutoShip items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
