We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
Crazy for trying and crazy for crying and I'm crazy for loving you.
President Trump's fitness for office is now the top story in the country.
So while Hillary Cofton stumbled her way through the campaign trail for months,
CNN lectured us for months about how we were all outrageous conspiracy theorists who are peddling fake news for merely questioning her physical health.
With that in mind, watch Sean Hannity spread conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton's health.
That was a reckless speculation by Sean Hannity.
She is now physically fit to be president and there's no doubt about that.
But when some crackpot writer known for inventing fake quotes who admit in his own book he's not certain the content is true,
distance diagnosis Trump has been mentally ill, the same guy, CNN's Brian Stelter says it's incumbent upon journalists to treat it with credibility.
Many Americans are worried and journalists need to cover that.
It is fair to ask about his fitness, conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton's health.
That was a reckless speculation.
It is fair to ask about his fitness, reckless speculation.
The New York Times has Maggie Haberman said Trump fanned conspiracy theories about Hillary's health.
But despite admitting that parts of Wolf's book are, quote, flat out false,
she's doing exactly the same thing about Trump's mental health.
Something is unleashed with him lately. I don't know what is causing it. I don't know how to describe it.
Over a dozen lawmakers met with a Yale psychiatry professor for two days after which she told him Trump was falling apart under the stress.
What was one of her primary pieces of evidence for this claim?
That Trump's CNN wrestling tweet from six months ago.
I might as well end the video now because that's a watertight argument, isn't it?
Case closed.
Trump's not crazy. You are.
You've been driven crazy by Trump.
Many of you were crazy enough to believe that a joke about Trump watching the guerrilla channel for 17 hours a day was real.
That's how maniacally obsessed you are about Trump.
From two scoops of ice cream to the way he drinks from a cup to Trump's well-done steak with ketchup.
You just can't stop thinking about every minute detail of his existence.
Seriously, the media is like a jilted ex-lover that Trump dumped who is now relentlessly stalking him.
They even hide in bushes to try to catch a glimpse of his golf swing.
They create delusional alternate reality websites in which Hillary won the election.
These are not well people.
You want to talk about crazy? I'll tell you what's crazy.
Rioting in the streets because you don't like an election result.
That's crazy.
Trying to shoot up a baseball field full of Republican congressmen.
That's crazy.
Burning down college campuses because you don't like someone's opinion.
That's crazy.
Thinking hurricanes are mother nature punishing Americans for voting for Trump.
You're watching these hurricanes now and it's really hard, especially while promoting this movie,
not to feel mother nature's rage.
That's crazy.
Holding Trump's mock severed head aloft with a deranged sociopathic look on your face.
That's crazy.
Screaming at the sky like escaped mental patients because you're so triggered by Trump.
Screaming.
That's crazy.
Endorsing a group that's listed as a terrorist organization by the DHS and FBI.
That's crazy.
Thinking that Trump's tweets are going to make the planet uninhabitable.
We all live in a world that could literally be ended in terms of a habitable planet
because of the sad man's insecurity.
That's crazy.
And all of that craziness was brought to you by the mainstream media's hysteria.
The same people responsible for one solid year of rampant, fevered, anti-Trump madness.
And now calling Trump crazy.
I mean, talk about projection.
You want to see crazy?
Don't look at Trump, look in the mirror.
Screaming.
When you're literally having to take medication to treat your Trump derangement syndrome,
you're probably not the most credible voices to be calling other people mentally ill.
When you look like you've just escaped from a straight jacket after bouncing around the rubber room for a few hours,
maybe you shouldn't be questioning other sites.
That's right.
The full reports on infowars.com.
We have giant news on the other side.
Stay with us.
People who disagree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with cell force from InfoWarsLife.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We've got it, we've got it, we've got it.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
Well, the big headline on newswars.com, as well as DrudgeReport.com,
China may halt purchases of U.S. Treasuries markets rattle.
We can pull the CNBC up and show folks the latest with the Dow Jones industrial average.
But when you pull back from this, think about it,
our communist dictatorship can then dictate what's happening inside our nation and drive down the stock market substantively right now.
The S&P's down 4.67, NASDAQ 26.34, and then it just goes on from there.
Let's pull the Dow Jones industrial average up for folks right there.
We're watching on television.
Think about that.
China has a 15% corporate tax.
We had a close to 40.
We cut ours to theirs, they go to zero, tell U.S. companies and others,
become state connected, controlled by the Communist Party,
that takes Christians and Buddhists and houses them in facilities and harvests their organs,
executes them for their religion and sells their organs,
executes Christians and Buddhists for secretly conducting their religion in their own homes and kills them.
Not a word out of Hollywood, not a word anywhere.
Now the Dow Jones industrial average is down 20.45, still well above 25,365.
And without even looking this morning, I knew that I would go look and find pundits saying,
look, Trump's policy on China has already hurt the markets as they cheerlead an attempt to tank the markets
to try to kill the nationalism that we've rekindled.
Incredible.
Communist China comes to our private Federal Reserve that set up this monetary policy to put us into debt,
and they become the biggest owner of U.S. fiat treasuries so that the communist Chinese,
the greatest mass murders in history, can hold us by the shorthairs.
Oh, but instead we get to hear about Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia,
who's fended off the globalist takedown operation, is trying to stabilize its population and put fires out.
If Russia's like a ship, big old ship, long history, culture passed,
smoking burning holes all over it, but at least it's not run by the people that blew the holes in it.
And that's its crime.
We, on the other hand, run by Hollywood, run by the communist Chinese, run by the folks that hate flyover country
as their religion in all their internal tapes and diaries and admissions.
They hate Christians.
They hate poor black people.
They hate poor white people, poor Hispanics.
They're elitists. They're feudal lords, and they play us all off against each other.
And then you've got Trump saying, we're just going to match the tax you've asked so that it's more fair.
And they go, we're going to zero.
You don't hear Bernie Sanders or Hillary complaining that communist China went to zero corporate tax for the big rich fat cats.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, no, it's the Trump 15 points to give the trillions to rich people.
No, the rich people wrote the law to move it offshore.
And I know you know that.
But just to watch them pray on the economically illiterate public in this country and to watch Owen Shroyer go out.
And every person he talked to supported Trump's tax plan when they told him it was for Bernie.
And that Bernie supported it.
But as soon as they told him it was Trump's, they said, you're fake news, you're a liar, except for one black guy.
And he said, okay, I'm ignorant. I need to get informed.
All the delicate genius white people, and I'm not just, we just continue to see this, are really, it's actually what they say that white people are kind of the problem, liberal white people.
Because I'm serious, we go out, we interview them, they're the worst. And they're always the cheerleaders wanting to virtue signal how they know everything and they're great and blah, blah, blah.
Now, those young ladies were somewhat nice. This older lady just says fake news and he says, well, thank you for talking to me.
I appreciate you and shakes your hand and she just bulls past him and says, fake news.
No, we read you his tax plan. You said you supported it because Bernie Sanders was behind it. And then when you heard that it wasn't, you hissed and ran off.
Utilities cutting rates cite benefits of Trump tax reform. Yeah.
Nine years ago, 50 plus percent of our power was from coal.
It was down to like 30% or Obama. You let that power come back on the market, turn those clean plants back on again.
And you're talking about trillions in the next decade of tax cuts.
As Trump said, getting rid of regulations, bringing back the coal. All of this is the equivalent of tax cuts.
And then you get real tax cuts on top of that. Now let's shift gears, though, for me covering this more.
We'll get into the 7.6 magnitude quake that strike the Caribbean and all the latest stuff. There's just so much.
But the whole DACA thing, Trump is smart about business.
He's already frozen hundreds of thousands of Hondurans that are here illegally and shipping them back and hundreds of thousands of people that are here illegally from Guatemala.
I mean, they're being shipped back in mass and upwards of 70% reduction of illegals coming across.
But then he says, like he always said during the campaign, know to DACA in its present form.
If you have judges that see the documents that you were here as a child and that you have lived here for over a decade and you're not a criminal,
we're going to vet you, then we can do it. But know DACA in its present form. What does Ann Coulter do?
What is this so-called, and I'm not attacking Ann Coulter, but the guardians of conservatism.
So Trump's going back on his word. He says he would look to have DACA if it's redone and if they vet the people.
Remember how super conservative Christians who I love to death may have the right to really be out there in the culture war,
tell people what they think and okay, that's fine.
But they believe the media when they said Trump hates gay people and he's a homophobe and he wants to kill them and all this.
Even though he had Peter Teal at the thing and people were waving rainbow flags and all this being inclusive,
the media lied and a lot of conservatives piled on going, wow, he hates, you know, he hates these people.
Then when Trump did what he said he would do and was inclusive, they flipped out.
And it's the same thing happening here again where he says DACA in its present form lets people bring in even their second cousins
and you've got 45-year-old men that we know we've deported repeatedly with a fake name claiming they were born here
and you're gone, okay, you're gone and you can bring your mother, your father or siblings.
But let's debate that. You can't bring 10D. People go, well, that's five million people, blah, blah, blah.
If they're vetted, we aborted all our kids.
If there's some people out there that see the Hispanics being turned into racist as well and being tribal
and being manipulated by the left and brainwashed, that's a big problem for America.
But Hispanics in general are good, hardworking Christian family people and if Trump can embrace and judo the globalist
and make a reasonable thing to bring in people that aren't criminals, it's a replacement population.
The black populations going down, the white populations going down, the third, fourth generation Hispanics are going down.
Every industrialized group goes down. Japan's going down. Italy's having 1.2 kids.
There aren't going to be Japanese and Italians in a couple hundred years.
So the issue is Trump really has a pragmatic plan, like he would say in those hour or two hour-long speeches,
the media took it out of context like they always do and misrept, he said, all Mexicans are racist.
The media probably clipped that out and said it, didn't say that.
And it's the deception and then they use that back against him going, oh my gosh, he is going to have blanket amnesty.
No, there are a good 800,000 people here that have been here, were born here,
but the parents were illegals that didn't even go in to get them the citizenship, didn't even know they could or were scared to do it
or they got it where they were five years old and obviously you can't pull those people out of the country.
It's stupid anyways. And then you give the globalists the high ground that can play the game.
Instead you go, you're a felon, you're here fake, you're a fraud, you're out of here.
And you're new poor and anti-legally, you're out of here.
And we're going to vet who we have coming into the country.
And hey, you don't like new people coming in, there's a lot of Hispanics don't like people coming in and driving down wages.
Well, you should have had kids and today they were white people or anybody else.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon. Savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life. NASA Pack technology. Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10 year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
From three health sharing programs, holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305.
Or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305. Or hbextract.com.
Alex Gones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide.
I'm also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Our economic policies to counter-globalism to bring our nation back.
He's done that in royal flush, ace of spades, all the way.
I'd give him a 100 so far just because of the effort and what he's delivered.
He has flip-flopped on troops in Afghanistan and expanded them when he said he would pull them out.
He has not acted yet on exposing vaccines that he promised he would do in that Blue Ribbon Commission.
He has kind of gone sideways on Julian Assange until suddenly his lawyers are arguing that Assange isn't a criminal and is good.
And they've ended federal grand juries.
So that's when he's starting to go the right direction.
And there's some other places where the president has not done what he said he would do.
And one of the big ones some could say is now DACA.
But that's a semantical manipulation.
And this is very sophisticated what's happening.
He said during the campaign, DACA in its present form,
it just lets anybody that says they were a kid here with no proof just be here.
Obama sets these immigration hearings for two, three years out.
90-something percent of people don't show up.
It's a total fraud.
17 percent of people coming across, they're calling them children.
Only 17 percent are children.
These are adults.
These are handicapped people.
These are things that will absolutely weigh down the country.
This is crazy.
Remember they bought 35,000 pairs of 6x underwear?
Remember that?
I mean, this is insane.
They're not even testing you for diseases.
They're letting you come through with leprosy, cholera, drug-resistant TB.
I mean, just an assault on the country.
You should at least test the people if they're sick and take them to a hospital.
It's like biological warfare against the country.
But now you've got a judge coming out blocking the Trump administration plan to roll back DACA.
So see, you've got everybody praising Trump saying, oh, he's suddenly going to be liberal
and go with the original DACA.
That's how the media is spinning it.
So if he doesn't, he's betrayed everybody.
But it also hurts his base.
This is how the psych warfare people do it.
They go, we'll declare he's now caved into us so that it'll look like he's double-crossed if he doesn't.
And then we'll also say to the base, he's betrayed them, and that'll give us more leverage
and we'll chip away at that, pushing him more into our arms.
And then we can still set him up and bring him down later once we've gotten rid of his base.
That's the Machiavellian strategy.
Roger Stone's coming in the next segment to give you exclusive breakdown on the post-mortem
of Steve Bannon political career and life and stuff that he told me that was spot on.
I actually considered not hiring Roger Stone eight months ago when we first hired him
because he was so anti-Steve Bannon behind the scenes, not in a treacherous way,
but saying, I fear he's really turned against us.
He's bringing in the generals to get a 25th Amendment.
Now I'm getting intel and I was like, I don't like that, Roger.
I think Steve Bannon's great.
And he said, OK, we'll be pro-Bannon and then we got screwed over.
But now he's willing to talk.
So I'll see how much he'll say in the next segment.
That's very important.
But getting back to DACA, this is very sophisticated.
He just sent back hundreds of thousands of Hondurans that were here illegally.
A lot of them children.
He just sent back, again, hundreds of thousands of people from Guatemala.
I mean, it's everywhere.
People from Mexico.
And a judge is ruling, hey, you can't do that.
You got to let everybody stay here.
And then all Trump's doing is having bipartisan meetings saying, listen,
if somebody's really been here and they're not a criminal and they've been here a long time,
then it's stupid to pull them out of the economy and get rid of them.
When it doesn't matter if you're Hispanic, white or black, everybody knows fourth, fifth,
generation Americans statistically are very lazy and very entitled.
And hardworking immigrant labor, to a great extent, one area of that is hardworking immigrant labor.
There is a criminal element that's particularly criminal, though,
that basically neutralizes all the good of 95%.
And Trump has that pragmatic understanding that we've got to deport the criminals,
deport people that are here illegally, deport people that are lying,
and have fake social security numbers or stole them,
and go after the underground economy the Democrats have set up
of controlling this underclass that is mainly Hispanic immigrants.
Chinese women are now outpacing Mexicans as the group coming here.
They're wealthy or middle class.
They are getting free healthcare, their babies become U.S. citizens,
and they're milking everything.
So if you want the real group, and I'm not bashing Chinese in general,
statistically very hardworking smart people, but they are coming over here
and colonizing the U.S. and going directly on welfare and keeping their money in China.
So you can type it in.
I mean, the number one group outpacing all Mexicans that are coming in
is Chinese women here to have babies.
They get here two months before they're going to have the baby.
On a visa that Obama would give them, they go get an apartment,
they get the baby supplies, they have the baby.
The baby's now in anchor. That's fraud.
China would put her in a death camp for that.
I'm not saying put her in a death camp, but see, don't come here and do this.
This is sick.
Screwing America over needs to come to an end.
So Trump is there with an olive branch, he has the meeting,
and then everybody gets horrified when Wolf Blitzer and all the other hosts
and Jed Bush starts praising him.
And they all know they're super unpopular.
That hurts the president.
But he's making a calculation of judo to show people they're a fraud.
Just like Trump said, you're going to like what I do for the real dreamers.
If you're really here, if you're not a criminal, if you're contributing,
you were really here when you were a kid.
Okay, I said that during the campaign.
That's how they're spending it that he's alive.
Let's play a clip of Wolf Blitzer praising this.
This is the presidency many thought he was capable of.
Let's play Dana Bash first.
Here's Dana Bash, a piranha-like deceiver, now suddenly loving the president.
Here it is.
This was kind of stunning.
I had not seen anything like it.
There's a lot to discuss with regard to the substance,
because there are a lot of unanswered questions and a lot of real discussion in this room.
But I think it definitely bears underscoring.
We've all covered a lot of photo ops for the sake of bringing the cameras in
to send an image around the world.
That's not what this was.
And we are as skeptical as they come.
I think that's fair to say.
This really was a negotiation.
We really got the fly on the wall in this room listening to the way they talk.
I'm really not convinced that it would have been any different had the cameras not been in there.
And I was just been communicating with now two Republicans who were in that meeting
who said that they had no idea that the cameras were going to stay in there as long as they did.
Okay, so there you go.
People being brought to the table to be sold on something that's reasonable.
Hey, we can't have felons and people deported 30, 40 times
and rapist saying they were born here when they weren't with no proof they're going to leave.
That's what he always said.
And again, people are misrepresenting.
Trump continues to do 90% of what he said he'd do.
Now, if he goes sideways on this, we've got a big problem.
We need to keep him honest about it.
But seismically, America first cutting the taxes, cutting the regulations,
turning the coal back on, cutting the corporate tax to bring the jobs back in.
That has panicked the entire New World Order.
They don't know what to do.
And that's why they're still scrabbling to try to get rid of Trump.
And he's so damaged the establishment that he could never make a deal with them to leave him alone.
They're going to continue to always try to remove him because of what he symbolizes.
But they will try to suck him in and manipulate him with his advisors to go along with this.
Let's go out to break with Wolf Blitzer.
And again, this is cringe-worthy, but this is part of their scythe.
Here it is.
Down the road, I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington.
We want to welcome our viewers here in the United States and around the world.
Let me go to Jim Acosta, our chief White House correspondent.
Jim, you listen closely.
And I got to give the president of the United States a lot of credit.
He allowed the TV cameras in there for this really remarkable meeting.
I've covered the White House as you and you have for many years.
I don't remember when a White House has allowed TV cameras in such an unusual way.
So there you go.
We'll be back.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
as we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareShore.com.
Select your favorite product or products.
Click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at InfoWareShore.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com.
Free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWareShore brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with a good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWareShore.com.
That's InfoWareShore.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfoWareShore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide and we're about to go to Roger Stone with some really big exclusive news.
And we don't get into infighting here and I basically won't even engage in it privately.
And Roger, the stuff he was telling me going back really eight months ago is when it started, I basically told Roger I didn't want to hear about it.
And even though everything Roger so far had told me over the last few years before that was so accurate, I just couldn't believe it.
And Roger was very positive on air and tried to see Bannon as the good guy inside the White House that was going to keep us on track.
And there might even be some truth to that, but now we know about Bannon being behind the made-up mafia dossier.
And I heard about that from Stone.
And we now know that he's the guy that let Wolf in and that he indeed did say those things and all these witnesses are coming forward.
Even though Wolf twisted other interviews he got and has been caught in a bunch of stuff, Bannon's the guy that actually did say that stuff and did bring him in.
And Bannon thought he could run for president last week. His response was maybe I'll run for president in 2020.
And his response was I'll keep running Breitbart and people are like, no, you're gone.
And as I said the day after this all happened last Thursday, I said, Steve Bannon's gone from Breitbart or Breitbart's done.
And the people have spoken. Well, indeed that happened yesterday, but it's not about, oh great, somebody's head just got chopped off.
Let's play polo with it. It's that I am shocked by the Machiavellian garbage and his ego.
And is he evil? Is his ego? What's wrong with him? We now know he was the big leaker. He brought the generals in.
He was positioning this book right now for a 25th Amendment run at him.
And I remember Stone telling me this eight months ago, and I don't know how much he can tell you, or his sources obviously he can't give you.
He gave me some of them. And I was like, Roger, you know, you're not usually somebody that's just mad at somebody or envious of somebody because they're a big political party.
He was absolutely not. I like writing for Breitbart. You know, I really liked Steve Bannon until he got in.
This is the intel we're getting, Alex. And I'm telling you, he brought in the generals thinking to be a coup for him.
And somebody like Ted Cruz down the road, who he worked for before. And I'm listening to this and he goes, I'm telling you.
And he brought up the, you know, the Chinese double agents that that'll be key coming up involved with Bannon and all this other stuff.
And I don't know how much he can say on air, but post-mortem, we're not gossiping here. I don't ever do this.
We need to really just put it all out about Bannon that is he an egomaniac? Did he get manipulated? Or is he really just a super bad dude?
Because if so, we'll have to continue to look out for what he's going to be doing creeping around in the dead of night, basically.
So, Roger, you've done nothing but positive about Bannon. But behind the scenes, you're never really a negative guy.
But you were just continually to say, it's Bannon. It's Bannon. And I almost, and I'm glad we hired you eight months ago.
And I'm glad you're our correspondent. But, you know, I almost, you know, didn't hire you because I just thought it's crazy to say Bannon is this double agent.
But now you've been proven correct. I mean, how did you know this?
Well, Alex, so many things that didn't make sense in the beginning of the Trump administration now suddenly make perfect sense.
The fact that Steve Bannon never helped any other true Trump supporter get into the senior White House staff.
The fact that virtually every candidate Bannon promoted for a cabinet job, globalist Rex Tillison, for example, the candidate of Condoleezza Rice, not a Trump supporter.
So while giving lip service to the Trump movement, Bannon helped formulate an administration that was completely staffed by never Trumpers.
It didn't make sense. Then it does make sense now.
It was Steve Bannon, who was the original patron for General John Kelly, getting him first to Homeland Security, then helping him get into the White House Chief of Staff's job.
Bannon and I met, I guess, a little over a month ago in New York for several meetings. We extended, as you know, an invitation to appear here on Infowars, which he declined.
I thought that was really strange. He was out of public office.
It was an opportunity to speak to millions of freedom oriented Trumpers around the globe, yet he passed on the opportunity.
But we're not mad at him about that. Let's go back to you saying it makes no sense. He's in there. He's doing nothing. We're being told by our other sources.
He's helping bring them all in. He says he's for the agenda, but he's the one sabotaging it. He shows everybody the big board.
And then going back about eight months ago, as you were saying this, going back, you know, to, I guess, about February of last year.
But about eight months ago, you started saying, no, I'm telling you, he's building up a 25th Amendment with these generals.
And then later you predicted they would throw him overboard that he was a useful idiot. I mean, you literally called it. So how did you call it?
I mean, tell folks what you told me behind the scenes.
Well, he told me a little over two months ago that Trump would be gone by July, that he was a pessimistic that the president could survive.
Little did I understand at that time. It was because of what he himself was orchestrating.
And Alex, there's no question whatsoever that he saw himself as the president's successor.
And now you have an entire new and disturbing line of inquiry.
Remember that Steve Bannon was a member of the National Security Council until he was kicked off the council in August.
During that period, he learned about Miles Kwok. Miles Kwok is a Chinese national living illegally in the United States that the Chinese government is seeking to extradite.
Steve Bannon knew firsthand that the Chinese president had asked President Trump directly on two occasions, once at Marlago, once at the G12 conference about the extradition of the criminal Kwok,
who was accused in China of executing multi-million dollar cyber crimes, essentially stealing.
What does Bannon do? He leaves in August.
And by October, he has a financial deal with Kwok to finance Breitbart as the mercers, who I do think are patriots, appear to be ready to throw in.
So let's be clear, he's calling Trump a traitor at the same time talking to a snake reporter that he brought into the henhouse, and at the same time using national security intel to then go basically get money off of somebody so that he could be the person's political protector.
By every stretch of the imagination, by every historical yardstick, this sounds like treason to me.
Well, and I'm told the FBI is all over this like a cheap suit. I mean, the question is, when did Bannon begin taking money from Kwok? How much did he take?
I give Matt Drudge credit for the one who put together the pieces of this particularly nefarious scheme, but Bannon was clearly Kwok's protector during the time he was on the National Security Council.
But let's get right as well. I first learned about Kwok from you and I kept saying, why are you harping on Kwok? You said because it's the key to Bannon. You were the first to say that. Can you tell us the extra intel you had?
Yes, it's absolutely clear. Kwok is a double agent. I believe that he was working for the Chinese spying on America. I believe that he then flipped and went to work for Pompeo and the boys in Langley.
But quite clearly, Steve Bannon became his protector in return, I believe, at least allegedly, for funding for Breitbart. There you see it.
So this entire threat is now coming together and there he is. The man on the right is in the country illegally fighting extradition and, more importantly, Alex.
He's a fly in the ointment in terms of getting the Chinese assistance on North Korea.
We'll be back and talk about this. This is incredible. It's clear. Bannon is incredibly delusional. Mike and Arizona are on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rant any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars life products. They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Matt in Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt. Go ahead.
Yeah, hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a longtime listener of InfoWars, and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic. And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me. And it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake. And then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple A-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
For more information, head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of fluorolife probiotics today. That's infowarslife.com.
Here we are, the day after this all broke last week, saying either Bannon goes or Breitbart goes. Big victory. Breitbart is Benedict Arnold. He is the enemy. He has been flushed.
And then again, last night in that particular program, we played the clip from where I had said last week that either Bannon goes or Breitbart is going to be in deep trouble, which is a great organization, does a lot of great work.
It's not about a pissing contest. It's not about enjoying going after Bannon. It's about being betrayed and then doing the postmortem on that to find out exactly what is going on and what happened.
That said, getting back into clock that you've been on for, gosh, eight months, first person I heard talking about it, Bannon, espionage investigations, you couldn't get into it then. What can you tell us now about this mysterious tycoon and about your statement that sources tell you?
And you're one of the most connected people I know talking to reporters, mainstream, alternative, foreign, you name it, every day, every hour, every few minutes on the report that you're getting that Bannon is under investigation by the FBI.
And what are they investigating?
Well, it now appears just to recap that Steve Bannon as a member of the National Security Council until last October, pardon me, last August, learned that clock was the subject of a tongue of war between our government and the Chinese government.
That the Chinese president asked President Trump directly for the extradition of Miles clock and that the president has guaranteed that extradition.
And this was most definitely one of the talking points in the president's efforts to get the assistance of the Chinese in terms of tamping down the North Korean nuclear threat.
We now know that Bannon reached out to and engendered a relationship with clock after leaving or perhaps contiguous with being on the NSC.
And lo and behold, when the Mercer family, a patriotic family out of Long Island, pulled the rug out from Breitbart's financially while Bannon announced that his new financier was none other than the Chinese national and fugitive criminal, Miles clock.
This, to me, looks like a self dealing. It appears to be corrupt. It may in fact be treasonous if these facts are as represented.
But Alex, I go back to my meeting with Bannon several months ago and his absolute certainty that Trump would be removed in a 25th Amendment play in his long sided plan to get rid of Jared,
get rid of Ivanka with whom he is obsessed and lay the groundwork for his own vice, his own presidential candidacy.
At one time, an operative who worked for Steve approached me and asked me what I thought of a Steve Bannon Laura Ingram ticket.
I love Laura Ingram. No one is more loyal to the president than she is. I can't see her joining such a ticket, but I now see the game plan.
Take Trump down. Lay Mike Pence in the deep state, step into his role. It is a duplicitous, incredible plan that involved the takedown of Donald Trump.
That's how a lot of folks become successful. They just take over when Breitbart mysteriously dies and then if the president can be destroyed or removed, suddenly you step into all of that.
Meanwhile, he's so self centered and delusional that he's got dandruff all over him. Looks like he drinks 14 bottles of scotch a week, but you've got to give his post-mortem on him politically.
I don't think he can come back from any of this. How did this slob think that he could game everybody? I guess he comes out of Hollywood.
How did this slob, how did slob Bannon, the slob Bannon, Jabba the Bannon?
Sloppy, sloppy Steve.
Yeah, sloppy Steve. I'm just giving him new accolades. How did he think he would execute this entire thing?
Well, the answer, Alex, of course, is money. He used the Mercer's money to buy himself into Trump world.
Donald Trump is one of the world's foremost geniuses on using OPM, other people's money. It's one of the things that made him one of the great business successes.
He's got the sizzle. You've got the cash. Let's make a lot of money together. It's worked for him his entire life and it's made him a billionaire in his own right.
So Bannon bought his way into Trump world using the Mercer's money.
From day one, it's clear that he intended to push Trump aside and move to the head of the class.
You're right about it being odd in the sense that Steve is a reclusive guy, rarely left his apartment in New York by his own admission,
never put on a suit, wore the same pair of shorts every single day, not exactly a hail fellow well met, no charisma, no magnetism of the Donald Trump Ronald Reagan type,
why he ever saw himself as a candidate. It's extraordinarily hard to understand.
But his Machiavellian game plan now is completely clear. It even took me a while to piece it together.
When he was telling me Trump was going down in a 25th Amendment play, what he was saying was he was working with others to take Trump down in a 25th Amendment play,
confident that once Vice President Mike Pence became president with Donald Trump's blood on his knife,
he, Steve Bannon, could emerge as the rightful heir to Trumpism, the rightful heir to American...
And then right as Bannon was about to be removed, he then through Breitbart put out, we're going to support Pence now,
again using that weapon in a Machiavellian way to attack Pence again with his ongoing strategy to make Breitbart the only good guy in the world.
I mean, wow, that is sick. But if you look at all the evidence, that's what happened. Is there any way someone else was playing him,
and he was just the front schlub, and he's just an innocent dander of colored, you know, red-eyed goblin?
No, I think that we have nailed this down. Look, what other explanation could there be for the fact that he never helped anyone else who was savvy about Trump,
he never helped anyone who was a true early Trump supporter get into the White House staff?
I can't tell you how many dozens of people he promised to help that he pledged to help, but never lifted a finger.
And here's the last piece. Here's the last piece. He brings in the deep staters, still fails, but here's the key to all of it.
He said, we're going after every Republican, even those that have good records, only 10 crews will be left alone.
Everyone must give us campaign money and support us, or we'll come after you, totally positioning themselves.
And we know he first worked for Ted Cruz, put out the mafia dossier that was fake. So I think that's the other play, is those two together.
I see Count Dracula, Ted Cruz, at the center of this.
The entirely possible, Alex, look, Ted Cruz is a Bush family retainer. He got a secret million dollar loan from Goldman Sachs,
which he did not report on his campaign finance reports as required by law. His wife is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He's a confection, he's a fraud, we call him Fat Dracula.
And my guess is that he was Bannon's backup candidate, if the voters didn't buy Steve in a Trump takedown, maybe they'd buy Ted Cruz.
Well, that's not going to happen.
Well, I mean, how delusional is it with a guy that has the charisma of a dead rat with giant, pinwheel, red eyes,
and literally dandruff falling all over him? He's really dandruff Steve, flaky skin, eczema Steve, sorry, or whatever it is.
Unbathe Steve, filthy Steve, now Benedict Bannon, but I mean, I'm not just insulting him, it's who he is.
If it's you, Feds, I just don't get how he thought he would execute this. It is crazy.
Well, but it is hubris. Look, when you go from laying on your couch in Manhattan in your stuffy apartment to a palatial office at the White House,
you can understand how he would begin to have delusions of grandeur.
Trump does make it look effortless. He's like Ronald Reagan in that sense.
He is a guy who glides through life from success to success because he has sound judgment and strong character.
And Bannon may have thought perhaps he could supplant the president.
This entire Machiavellian scheme has just been come crashing down.
If you go to Barnes & Noble, by the way, you'll notice that there are three different vanity biographies on Steve Bannon.
He's on the cover of Newsweek this week talking about his future plans. You can see the orchestration.
We now know how he was the Laker. Do five more minutes with me because I want to get back to this.
So you can confirm your sources. The FBI is investigating Bannon.
My sources tell me they're now looking into his relationship with Miles Kwok.
All right. I want to do five more minutes before our next guest comes on because I want to get into DACA and how you really read what the president is doing.
I go back to what he said, the media ignored. He said, no, we're going to fix it.
But the old DACA is not fair. But yeah, we'll do something for people that really prove they've been here and aren't criminals.
We'll be back the second hour, infowars.com. Please spread that link.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Brainforce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brainforce Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
You can run on for a long time.
President Trump has slammed sneaky Feinstein for possibly illegal testimony release.
Yeah, all their criminal leaking, comies in trouble, dealers in trouble.
The wheels have come off.
I'll ask Roger Stone about that in a moment because this just broke from the great people at Breitbart and Drudge and Breitbart that helped watch the whole thing.
And now back in the hands of good people, hopefully.
Fusion GPS admits they used John McCain to pass anti-Trump dossier to Obama-era intel agencies.
So we're going to get Roger's take on that in a moment, but Roger, finishing up, DACA.
I'm going to wait and see what the president does. It's good to have people in at the table.
It's good to say, I don't hate immigrants.
If you've been here, you know, since you were a kid, you can show it.
You're going to, we're going to vet you. You can be a citizen.
But if you've been deported 20 times, 30 times, some 40 times, and, you know, you're a 40-something-year-old criminal, you're gone.
And if you try to come here illegally, you're gone now.
But, I mean, he's making a deal and he's cut back the illegal immigration 70%.
Ann Coulter and others are running around like chickens with their heads cut off, be holier than now.
If I see Trump flip-flopping like Afghanistan and stuff, I'll talk about it.
But I haven't seen this shit. I see him actually trying to not let them paint him as a Nazi and keep the promises he said during the campaign.
Well, Alex, I couldn't agree more.
You know, my phone was ringing off the hook last night from troubled Trumpers and I say, look, don't rush to judgment.
Let's see what happens. Right now we're in negotiation.
The president's saying a lot of things, but watch what they do, not what they say.
I'm willing to give the president the benefit of the doubt.
He's a sympathetic individual.
He has empathy for people who are brought here, not by their own volition, who would like the promise of America,
who came here as children, who aren't criminals, who have jobs or are going to school, who are, you know, productive members of society.
So don't rush to judgment. Let the president work a deal.
We need border security. We need that wall.
There's going to be some horse trading here, but I put my faith in Donald Trump.
Let's not put the cart ahead of the horse.
He's not a dictator.
You know, the budget conservative said he's screwing us just to get headlines and get clicks.
They can do that all day. We don't do it. We have integrity.
Well, he's screwing us on taxes. It's a screw. He's not going to do it.
And then he did it.
I can't believe how much he actually got of what we wanted because he's not a dictator.
Now, look, I only wish that the president got the kind of loyalty from Steve Bannon that he's gotten from you, Alex or Paul Manafort,
who Bannon savagely had talked yesterday, but who has, despite his massive legal problems of being, you know, targeted,
swatting rates, millions in legal bills, he's been...
Has remained, has remained completely loyal to the president.
Think about it. They say Manafort, all your problems can go away.
All you've got to do is lie. Roll on Donald Trump.
Say, yes, I was trafficking with the Russians and Trump knew everything. It would be a lie.
And he refuses. He remains steadfastly loyal to the president.
And by the way, you talk to him almost every day.
You've been business partners for decades, one of the most successful firms in D.C.
We're going to break. I heard about a minute and I'll let you go, but how is he holding up?
Because the man is done absolutely nothing but be a patriot for Western civilization.
Well, I can tell you this. He's 100% percent behind the president.
He is outraged by this attack on him by Steve Bannon.
He's an Italian American. They can threaten him with everything they want.
He's not going to bear false witness against Donald Trump.
He would go to prison first, but at the same time, he's confident that these charges against him are bogus,
that they're trumped up. He's brought a sweeping lawsuit against Mueller that he's very confident about.
So he remains upbeat and positive. He's in a fight for his life,
but he will never abandon the president of the United States.
I mean, I know a lot of what you talked to him about. You can't talk about his lawyers and stuff.
I mean, how's his spirits?
Well, considering that he is under house arrest, he essentially can't leave his apartment in Alexandria, Virginia.
They refuse to let him travel, no travel for Christmas and ability to see much of his family.
He's holding up amazingly well, and Alex, he's a big fan of info wars.
He follows exactly what we do here every day.
Well, we're a fan of what you're doing, and you were so on target on Clock and Bannon.
I apologize, Roger, because you were right behind the scenes and you wanted to go after Bannon.
I said, let's not do it. And I feel guilty, but thank you for being right. You're amazing. Thank you, Roger.
We'll be back.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12. Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live in the second hour broadcasting worldwide on this Wednesday,
already the 10th day of January 2018.
Dr. Mark Fiber is an amazing individual, a lot of great economic predictions and laurels under his belt.
He's Mark Fiber, editor and publisher of the Gloom Boom and Doom Report.
That's gloomboomdoom.com and I'm not going to go over all of his long bio or books or reports.
I don't want to get right into what's happening in the global economy.
We were trying to get him on for weeks on other big issues and on this recovery and the Democrats trying to sabotage it in the EU and migration.
But now you've got China as reportedly thinking of halting U.S. Treasury purchases.
That's worrying markets right now.
The markets are down some, but still well above 25,000 on the Dow Jones.
So what does he make of all of this?
What is his overall breakdown on Trump lowering our taxes to what the Chinese communists have?
And now they're going to lower to zero as companies become state run.
Just amazing things.
So I could ask a lot of questions, but I want him to cover the waterfront from the Gloom Boom Doom Report.
Thank you so much for joining us, Dr.
Well, my pleasure, Alex.
What should we tackle first?
So much is going on.
Yes, well, we can talk about the global economy, which is kind of strengthening somewhat.
But as you know, a lot of the strength is due to government deficits and to money printing.
In other words, the expansion of balance sheets of central banks and of course of credit growth, which is very strong.
So it's kind of a mixed recovery.
It's been very good for assets.
Asset prices since 2009 have not only recovered, but they've gone and made new highs.
Bonds, stocks, dollar was strong until a year ago.
Commodities have also done quite well over the last 12 months.
So real estate has equally gone up around the world.
We had really an exceptional kind of asset recovery, asset bubble, I would say.
And that has led to stronger economic growth that looks reasonably good on the surface.
But if you dig deeper, it's of course unstable economic growth.
And that's exactly where I was going next.
Can this Trump populist nationalist rally that's spreading across the world, can it pull the world markets up into a true global recovery?
Or is it like a sugar high and a sugar high that I want?
Because at least it's a bubble keeping us from a total collapse or depression that might actually create some new industry and jobs in the United States.
The United States is kind of one of the better houses in a bad neighborhood and we're entering into a trade war.
It looks like an economic war with the communist Chinese.
If you look to where we were going, it was bad.
And so yes, it's another bubble we're riding with Trump.
But isn't that all we've got as bubbles?
I mean, is that what you're getting at?
Yes, I think we've got a lot of bubbles and I need to correct you.
I don't think that you can call the Chinese communists any longer.
It's a one-party system, the communist party, but it's anything but communist.
It's ultra-capitalistic with lots of very wealthy people having been created both through state subsidies and privileges, as well as through private initiative.
So, I mean, we've had in China, I'd say almost a robber-parent capitalism in the last few years and that has propelled the economy forward.
We have less regulation than in the US.
We have less socialism than in Europe.
And that has been very favorable for the economy.
Well, I totally agree with you that China is an authoritarian one-party kleptocracy where the upper party members and members of the Politburo and Central Committee are billionaires,
and then they are killing Buddhists and Christians for practicing their religion secretly.
It's a ultra-corrupt, evil elite, hardworking good people under them.
It's a true travesty and I never see our media even criticizing communist China anymore.
Do you agree with a lot of economists that China is in a much more precarious position than even we are with their state-run system trying to prop up 10% growth rates that our bubble is underpinned with some problems,
but that their bubble is even much more dangerous?
Well, I think we had huge credit growth in China. In fact, according to the Bank of International Settlement, no country ever had the kind of credit growth China had over the last five to eight years in terms of percentage increase.
However, and I need to point this out, whereas in the Western world, credit growth flows into transfer payments, in other words, it goes into people's pockets from one pocket into the other in China.
A lot of infrastructure has been built with this credit growth, and this infrastructure benefits actually economic growth in the long run.
If you look at, say, infrastructure in China, in Shanghai, Beijing, and so forth, and other cities, and you compare it to the infrastructure in the U.S.
With few exceptions, the U.S. has actually very poor infrastructure.
It's rotting. And you see that, you see the globalists moving from the U.S. to China, building them up, saying, they're the future.
And then Trump, it looks like, is trying to imitate China, but not with authoritarianism, just letting us have jobs, trying to build up infrastructure.
And I've seen Lloyd Blank fine making fun of him in tweets, saying, China's better, you'll never stop us.
I mean, it looks like there's a lot of, I guess you could say China files in the global elite, and they're betting on China, and that's one reason they hate Trump so much, is he's trying to bet on America?
Yes. I mean, I wouldn't write off America, but we have to see very clearly.
In 1715, in other words, approximately 250 years ago, China and India accounted for approximately 60% of the global economy.
And then came the industrial revolution in Europe, and the huge progress we have achieved through inventions and innovations, and the application of these innovations to industry
and commerce in Europe and in the U.S. And as a result of that, the percentage of India and China of the global economy declined to less than 5% in the 1950s.
Partly also due to failed political decisions. Partly communism in China and in India.
And then the West gave them the Promethean fire of the Renaissance, and now we're being double-crossed.
And now what has happened in the last, say, 20, 30 years is that the Western countries experience a relative decline, and there's nothing you can do against this relative decline.
You can try to age well. I'm in a relative decline. I'm not as strong as I was when I was 20 years old.
I can't do sports as well as when I was 25 years old. So I'm in a relative decline, but I can try to age well as you, as well as you.
So we have to try to do that. And as Western societies, in my opinion, we have actually accelerated our decline with failed policies by essentially socialist minds.
Well, let's talk about that. And the socialists say they want to kill the West. It is a self-loathing. It is the culture, and it will destroy the prosperity of the very SJWs calling for its collapse.
Dr. Mark Fauber, the editor and publisher of the Gloom Boom Doom Report, with us with one more segment of where this collapse is going.
And then we'll be in the hands of the murderous one-party system.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
877-886-3653, goberky.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health, and support the InfoWars.
Introducing Cellforce by InfoWarslife. Cellforce focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines.
Cellforce helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul, because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cellforce are some of the most powerful available on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cellforce from InfoWarslife. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
The Daily Mail, one of the most popular newspapers in the UK, has a lot of hard-hitting news. They also have a swimsuit section of girls and bikinis or whatever.
I like it. It's one of my favorite online papers. They've been banned on Virgin Atlantic train stations and trains because the head of it says that it's xenophobic to even cover immigration issues.
He got called racist and evil for even talking about the demographics and the Islamists being brought into Europe and how the West is committing suicide.
But then Peter Sutherland, who just died by the way yesterday, the head of the EU program and the founder of the modern EU, he headed up the migration operation now.
And he said, we're going to get rid of Western civilization. So there's a vitriol against it when the technology and the system of it will work in other cultures.
And if everybody just wants to die and not have kids, then let people come into the high-tech space-based system and then humanity can just move forward.
Because we've certainly seen the West before it really was modern, living in squalor as well.
But there is a war against it by authoritarians who want to break away civilization and don't want the general public to have access to free market and success.
And that's the technocracy Google talks about, and that's why they hate Mark Fawber. So super respected CNN, MSNBC, CNBC, everything you can imagine.
Suddenly Prasad Anangrata, because he dares talk about the reality of it's not just the death of the West.
As you said, it's the accelerated death. Why are Western elites fetishizing Dr. Fawber the death of the West?
Well, I also wonder why. But we have to see one thing very clearly. Say, if you look at the last 20, 30 years,
wealthy people, in other words, the asset holders have become immensely rich as a result of money printing and credit draws.
And the average household, the typical household in the US, the typical household in Western countries in Europe has had essentially a declining standard of living.
I would actually say that most boomers, the people like myself, born just after the war, their children will die poor,
then we will die, and they will earn less money. And this is statistically proven that in real terms, inflation is just if they earn less.
Most young people cannot afford to buy a house, cannot afford to buy an apartment, unless they have parents who will buy it for them.
But otherwise, on their own, they can't do that.
And as you've said, is this not social engineering where they have set it up, Russia is trying to change this, to not have families.
They've engineered it to not just deindustrialize but depopulate the West. And then once you've depopulated it, then you've got Third World.
That is not a good prognosis. So why has everything been set up to have crony capitalism to transfer wealth to the Jeff Bezos of the world while he runs around as anti-family jihad?
Well, there are many explanations for that.
But I'd say our entitlement society and the socialist thought that everybody should be precisely equal when in fact some people are born a little bit more intelligent
and some people are born with some more money than others. I mean, it may be sad to say so, but we're just not all exactly equal.
Some people can go to Harvard and most people cannot.
And so we have in the Western world this tendency to move and equalize everything.
That I will never understand that we have fought against communism and socialism for years, for maybe the last hundred years.
And now we introduce it through the back door.
That's right.
And I think this is a huge failure of democracy.
And I'm not sure that democracy will survive in the long run.
This democracy is an experiment. For the last 5000 years of history, we had essentially all kinds of systems.
But for the last 200 years, we have had this movement towards democracy and it's only just recent that everybody can vote.
And now they're using democracy to vote out democracy with new permanent elite classes based on their race or what color they are.
They're trying to replace something that they see they're threatened by, but really it's the system that brought them in.
Yes, precisely. It's like an animal farm where some pigs are more equal than others.
Some animals are more equal than others.
And for me, it's very difficult to understand this frame of mind that we just actually accelerate our relative decline,
but anyway, we had different civilizations, we had the Persian civilization, we had the Egyptian civilization,
we had the Greeks, the Romans, we had the Spanish Empire, the British Empire, we had the supremacy of America.
But none of those committed suicide consciously, we have an elite committed suicide because they know what they're doing.
As you said, they take the pie and they take 30% of the money and they collectivize it to domesticate the mass of the people.
Then less than 1% transfers to crony capitalism, most of the wealth up here, and they're in control.
But these people are destroying the engine of their own success, even though it's been transferred to the breakaway civilization,
which is waging war against the Nouveau Reich and the very engines of wealth,
pulling up the ladder of success to create a permanent elite class and a giant underclass.
This is the conscious movement of civilization into neo-futilism. Is it not, Dr. Fawber?
Yes, that's a good expression, neo-futilism. Actually, it's a very bad feudalism because in most of the feudals,
they had actually some education where as today's elite infrequently has no education whatsoever.
What do you think of Trump just in closing? Do you think he's a good guy? What advice would you give him?
Well, as you know, it's a very difficult thing to clean the swamp of Washington because there's so many parties
and there's so many organizations just to get the documentation that you need from the FBI or CIA,
they resist actually telling you what they have been doing. And so, yes, he's doing a great job relative to what he can do.
You understand, in China, Xi Jinping has the power. He can say, I'm going to do this and that will be done, nothing else.
But Trump and any Western leader doesn't have that power. There are people behind the scene that pull the strings and so forth.
And so, he's much more constrained than, say, a Chinese leader or, let's say, Vladimir Putin.
You're absolutely right. And then there's so much treachery because we've been so wealthy and so spoiled,
there's all these spoiled rats that won't get behind something good because they're not a dictatorship,
but get behind it to make it happen for everybody. No, they all want to say they're better, they're better and just run around and engage in fratricide.
Dr. Mark Fawber, very impressive historical information and market info. Thank you so much for joining us again at GloomBoomDoom.com.
Thank you, sir. Thank you. Newswars.com. Stay with us.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
It's sold as a 15-billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50-billion probiotic for a 30-day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics today. That's infowarslife.com.
You're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto-ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto-ship feature at infowarslife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto-ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out-of-stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com
Boston, Texas. Broadcasting in a wide. It's Alex Jones.
That's just some of the news and information that's breaking.
Wolf admits that he didn't interview any White House cabinet officials.
It had been denied previously by John McCain that he had passed on the anti-Trump dossier.
Now it's confirmed they're not admitting it. They're just a pack of wires.
It really is incredible. I want to get your take on this and so much more.
Also, we've seen record earthquakes the last year and a half, volcanoes reawakening, exploding, erupting all over the world.
They say the pole is moving. They completely shift.
Oh, I totally forgot too. Giant explosion over Russia that shook the ground and was a huge white orange fireball.
Nothing like anyone's ever seen in modern times, though there are all sorts of weird sky events going on.
So who knows? There is just so much craziness.
I have not been plugging really the last two days any products here on air because I've just been so focused on news.
But it is your purchase of the products that makes the broadcast possible.
And if you need water filtration, which everybody needs, you need high quality supplements.
You need all sorts of really good things for you and your family, books, videos, hundreds of different patriot apparel to make like-minded people and help spread the word.
It's all in InfowarsStore.com and you're the reason.
I mean, it's not just a platitude. It's totally true.
You are the reason, period, that Infowars is here and that we can have this great crew and have these broadcasts and change the world and break so many times news years, months, days, weeks.
You name it, before anyone else does.
Our latest product, by the way, that I've got the literature here on somewhere, is ImmuneWall.
It's very, very affordable at $29.95. It's 25% off out of the gates.
And we set out with beta-glucans, olive leaf and a bunch of other key compounds that are absolutely documented.
We can even make claims about what this does to bolster your immune system and make you healthier, especially if you're going to be traveling or you're under stress or it's in the winter months.
This is something everybody should be taking. Well-mune is patented and documented in all the hundreds of studies.
Then you've got the ancient stuff there as well, the organic olive leaf extract is what the Roman soldiers would take whenever they started getting sick, just chopped full of all those key enzymes and vitamin C and so much more.
Then it's got all the concentrated, highest quality organic types of mushrooms that are documented for your body and then concentrated citrus peel, orange peel, lemon peel, organic orange peel.
It's all there, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm not going to sit here and hype this product up.
We have now over 70 products and they're all excellent and they're all game changers.
You need to really go read the third-party reviews from Power Reviews and others that we have linked.
Our average review on M4store.com, there's more than 40,000 reviews now, is 94%.
They even had media investigations with BuzzFeed and people calling them going, we want to see it, it must be fake.
They're like, no, it's really real.
So they've got campaigns that people go on there and try to vote stuff down. I mean, they are just so angry where they test our stuff and test it and test it in California labs that has stuff 90% higher or no, it's nine times higher than EU that has the next highest standards.
I mean, basically there's more lead in the air than in California that you can put in a supplement or any other product, unless you call it a food product.
And that's why what is 60 something of our products are all California standard.
But if you've got something that's got, I don't know, 10, 15 ingredients in it, it's also a large serving like caveman.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, any can of chicken noodle soup has probably five times the lead California says is allowed. The lawyers wrote it like that to make it impossible. It's a total joke.
So that's just an example of all the scams, all the things, all the bamboozling, all the garbage that's been engaged in with them trying to sabotage us in the news, trying to say we have terrible products.
It's just insane. And then we test and test and test more than anybody we know of because we know we're under a microscope, ladies and gentlemen.
Whether it's the sleep aid knockout you need, which is amazing. We just, I said, you know, melatonins on average $19 1995 a bottle.
And a lot of us are not even organic type.
And I said, I talked to the big organic producer companies that we have make it and I said, how much is money is really in that.
They said on average about maybe a dollar of melatonin and then the container costs 50 cents or so or less.
So I can put the same amount of melatonin in, just making a bigger capsule that's powdered to absorb it and then add L tryptophan, valerian root, lemon balm, chamomile and several other things.
And I checked the scientists, none of them interact badly. They're all from nature. They're all healthy. They're all have good, you know, good, good clean records.
And then you get a sleep unlike other systems.
I mean, Randall Wilhite, his name is on the Texas Family Code, the last four or five issues. And he writes the Texas Law of the Family Code.
He's one of the top family law lawyers in the country. He's been raised for a change.
There's a attach aid to camp before he left criminal law and went into family law.
But the point is, he's a smart guy, you know, that nothing smoke marijuana, you know, doesn't drink anything.
And real clean cut guy, UT professor, they want to be the dean of the UT law school, but he didn't do it.
The point is, he's a prestigious guy and Mr. Goody Tushes, you know, German American guy.
But, you know, genuinely like Ward Cleaver.
And he went, was on like three or four drugs and sleep studies and then UT, you know, brain studies because he couldn't sleep after years of going overnight and not sleeping.
His brain rewired himself and these drugs he was taking, he couldn't even get sleep. It was ruining his life.
I hadn't seen him in four or five months because he's been here at the office and I gave him a whole box of stuff and I'm going to quit plugging and get back to news.
But I've been plugging in days, so I might as well plug.
And, but these are the true stories and he, I go, yes, man, I got to really thank you.
I am sleeping eight hours through the night. I only have to take one knockout.
I've gone and, you know, showed, you know, UT science, this and everything else. This is insane.
Wow, it's incredible. I take a melatonin of stuff by itself and it didn't help. Wow, this is incredible.
And I said, yeah, I don't know. I just had the idea to mix everything known, you know, scientifically and in the live tells together to make you sleep.
And, you know, it's powerful. You know, some of us take two of them.
People take one of them. If I had a bunch of caffeine and I'm late, you know, I'll take one and you just have better sleep period when you take it.
And, you know, it's got what, like seven, six, seven dollars a product in it.
And then we sell it for $19.95 and we, you know, it's a hundred and something markup.
But why would anyone buy melatonin when this has got eight other ingredients in it?
And they're inexpensive, high quality ingredients and it's amazing.
So there's knockout. We got to sell a lot of it at $14.95. Regular price is, you know, $29.95.
Usually $19.95. It's $14.95 right now. It's 50% off.
And I just want you to experience, you know, it helps fund the info war, helps support free speech, but then you get a product like this that,
by the way, Randy says he wants to come in and do a testimonial about it because I said, yeah, you look like 10 years younger.
He said, oh yeah, it's just, it's just, I'm off all the sleep drugs.
He says, this is totally free.
He goes, do you know what it is in there?
And I said, it's the synergy of it, of the chamomile, the lemon balm, the altrupta fan, the valerian root, the melatonin and several other ingredients.
All just moderate dose. They're all the recommended dose and they just fuse together.
And whatever they do chemically in the brain that Mother Nature, God gave us Mother Nature is incredible.
So that's available infowarstore.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
But thank you for committing to get the great products, the books, the films, the t-shirts, you name it.
Because it takes selling a lot of stuff to be able to fund this. We're not like rating countries like George Soros and stealing billions and then, you know, funding race war.
It's just selling t-shirts, selling books, selling films and, you know, just hustling to be able to get high quality products out.
So you have a great response and reorder, reorder, reorder, reorder. It's called reap what you show.
In the history of info wars life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2, super male vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure and rest secured. You're funding the tip of the spear in the info wars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
Cardivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now. That's infowarslife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of InfoWars and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars. It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me, but it says Won't Tread on Me and it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning T-Shirt.
Trigger Warning T-Shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind, available exclusively at infowars.com.
Remember, it's pretty much illegal in Sweden and Germany and other areas. It was an alarmist's rape and kills a woman or stabs a lady, jogging with her dog.
It's a daily occurrence. To even report that it was a Muslim, there's a new story up on infowars.com.
Germany won't deport convicted jihadists because it's against his human rights.
Yeah, they're even starting to say they're allowed to rape people because it's cultural.
I saw a story out of Big Brother reality TV show that I didn't cover last night. It's up on infowars.com.
Sure, it's her in the stack, but I missed it.
Where a transgendered woman, and Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube, if you say that a man, that a woman that says she's a woman that has male genitals and doesn't have ovaries,
no, that's a man that they will ban you. Facebook calls us and says, take this down and we're banning you.
I mean, it's happened several times. It's crazy. We're gearing up a lawsuit because of it, and they've been put on notice.
You see the lawsuits against Google that my name's in and everything. I've been told I don't need to be a party doll.
These things are just going to sue and put me in there.
Singer rejects kiss from transgender. It's labeled transphobe.
It's basically rape on these social engineering shows. They wanted Paul Watson to go on there, and I said, do not do it and lower yourself to that.
And I said, do it if you want. You can still work here, but I think you're crazy.
He said, no, I agree, but they wanted him on this season, by the way. Go get Watson on about that. I forgot.
It's the number one show in England for like what a decade running in the UK.
There's like 20 million people watching each week and they have everybody in there and social pressure, guys to have sex with guys.
And then, you know, women, women, and then you're not cool if you don't.
They literally bully him to kiss and then I guess have sexual relations that are onto the covers with another guy that's got long hair and is an unattractive guy.
But remember, Google executives say in the lawsuit that I've in, that broke big national news yesterday or two days ago, broke two nights ago, it was about a day and a half ago,
that the executives walk in all dressed insane and go, I am a golden dragonette and I'm a beautiful ornate building.
Everyone agree and then these big circular amplitheaters, they go, you are golden dragon.
This is in the lawsuit and they have the files in the documents. You are golden dragon dragonette.
You are ornate beautiful building and they go, and then jump around.
Again, you cannot make this up.
You go, this is just total mental illness. No, it's from the Tabistock Institute.
They use our openness and our diversity against us to say.
Oh, use the word gay or you hate homosexuals and then it sounds reasonable and then 40 years later, don't use the word mother and father.
Someone might not have a mother and father and that helps them.
This is in the lawsuit.
Tucker Carlson reported on it too.
A yellow-scaled wingless dragonkin.
Is a dragonkin a female dragon or a baby dragon?
An expansive ornate building.
And it's literally, I'm a dog. I'm a cat. I fetish that I'm a four-year-old girl and it's an obese 400-pound man.
And then other men go, I like to have sexual kids and then they come and then this is on television.
And it's a big fat guy dressed up like a little girl going, I like men. I like him. I can have sex with men if I want.
They're all just throwing it in your face as a big sick joke and then beating you over the head with the media saying,
you're hateful if you don't let us teach your three-year-olds about this.
Joshua and elders, reach down, touch their genitals, rub them, help them.
Want to play the clip?
Remember that? This surgeon general, we shouldn't be shy about it.
Reach down, grab them and help them.
Like, I'll play that next hour.
Let's dig out a couple of times and we're defending it.
The right wing got pretty upset about me talking about something very normal, like masturbation,
but it's not you, the government, coming in and reaching down.
That's called pedophilia.
Yeah, there's Newsweek.
Remember the time Bill Clinton fired his surgeon general for encouraging masturbation?
And Newsweek's like, see, it's totally normal now.
In Sweden, they reach down the little girls.
The government comes in and they touch them all.
Bill Clinton likes me by the way when he's on J. Appstein's plane.
That's how she talks.
But white people don't know what it's like to be poor.
That's the issue we're told about.
What a creepy freakazoid.
But again, it's all a scientific plan.
And now it's, I'm a golden dragon.
And I identify as a six-year-old girl and I want to date your son who's six.
Well, no, you can't.
That's pedophilia.
Shut up.
I'm calling the police.
You're going to kiss me and have sex with me on TV.
You're a transphobic.
You're a woman if you say so.
He goes, you're a woman.
I'm under your control.
I will say you're a woman, but I'm not going to be with you.
Well, the next level is on television.
You've got to let them have sex with you.
You basically have to get raped.
Singer rejects kiss from transgender, gets labeled transphobe,
and hated across the media, all beating you over the head.
Tavistock Institute continuing.
You know, we talk about how Gallup and how all the rest of them sampled
between nine and 15 to 16 during the election.
They went crazy, 20 points on average.
CNN would have 30, 40, 50, 46 points was the highest ever,
where they oversampled 46% more Democrats
than Republican callers in their calling.
Oh, are you a Democrat?
Oh, you're Republican.
People calling the CNN line.
They participate in the fake poll and they have Hillary at 69%.
Just like the New York Times said, 98%, 97%.
She's unstoppable.
We have a scientific algorithm.
The real algorithm showed Trump was going to win.
And I told you it was coming with Oprah.
You could see this a mile away.
Rasmussen poll, shock.
Oprah, 48%, Trump, 38%.
Because you go read the Rasmussen poll.
They're pretty nice.
They only add, I haven't read the actual thing yet,
because I've read it hundreds of times.
It's always the same.
They do about nine to 10 points more over sampling for Democrats.
Can one of the crew go into that and actually read the methodology?
But again, they're famous for these.
It's not like I'm just here telling you this.
So Oprah versus Donald and the winner is Oprah.
I stick my tongue in Harvey Weinstein's ear, Winfrey.
Oprah, I've got $3 billion in a chip on my shoulder
and I'm part of the most elite eugenics group in the world.
And I fund Blackie population.
But I take myself real serious and I bring women to Harvey Weinstein.
But I'm going to lecture you how you're bad.
And how all men are bad, but Hollywood's good.
And have all these actors act all upset
and hang on to every ridiculous word because I'm phony.
And people are rejecting me.
So what are we going to do?
Why?
Oprah really won the election, did you know?
Trump tried to steal it, but she's really the president.
Yes, CNN said so.
Elizabeth Warren, too.
Oprah, oh, but Oprah's home, one of her dozens, has been affected by mudslides.
And she's posted a photo of her walking knee deep in it.
Here, let me just click on that.
For some reason, my clicker's not working now.
Maybe one of you guys can post it for me.
But there you go.
It's so loving.
During the next break, I'll actually go into the nomenclature of that.
I'll go into the methodology of it and we'll see.
But I mean, that's how they do it.
They say, oh, we consider that there's, you know, 10% more Democrats in America.
So we oversample for them.
And then we ask, are you a Democrat?
Well, why yes.
Well, do you like Trump or Oprah?
Oh, I like Oprah.
But you oversample.
And you beat people over the head.
And what's in the WikiLeaks?
It's the good old John Podesta's two years out from the election saying,
we've got to finance every major pollster,
get out ahead of this and push them to even higher oversampling.
He goes, 15 isn't enough.
15% more Democrat.
Oh, but look, there it is.
Oprah's home affected by California Mudd's lines.
Oh my gosh, that's the concerted effort.
Oh, she is just such an angel.
And it's just all, she's such a survivor.
She's such a good person.
She cares about everybody.
And this is now what's going on.
Simply amazing.
And notice when I talked about her being a black Nazi,
which being a part of the eugenics group,
I mean, that's what the Nazis were.
There were plenty of black Nazis in World War II.
You can actually look it up.
The media thought that sounded crazy as they ran with that.
But when I got into her, sticking her tongue in Weinstein
and women saying that he, you know,
she brought women to them and basically set them up
and that, you know, she's been involved as a child prostitute
and all the rest of the stuff.
And, you know, the fact that she doesn't want her lesbianism
to do nothing wrong with lesbianism, like, it's fine.
The point is just, you know, let's get it out front.
Let's be proud of it.
And nobody wanted to touch that.
Oh, you don't talk about that with the grand leader.
I mean, she's like the shadow president.
Now they're about to say, watch,
she's really like America's conscious.
It's the phenomenon, you know, after Trump won,
America stood up and she became the voice.
She's our mommy when she's not sticking her filthy tongue
in Harvey Weinstein's fetid, scaly, diseased ear.
Stay with us.
That's infowarstore.com.
Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind
and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today
at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Yeah, if you go back to the campaign,
the year and a half ago they were saying
Trump hates Hispanics, he hates Mexicans,
he says they're all criminals.
And we offered rewards to people on air
of anybody that could find us a clip of him saying that.
No, George Ramos and everybody said he said that.
He would give an hour long to our speeches
and they would take it out of context.
He said, if you've been deported, if you're a criminal,
if you can't prove that you haven't been living here
since you were a kid or that you haven't been living here
in a long time and have a job and a part of society
in school, we're deporting you.
And we're going to stop everybody else's pouring in
the way Obama is saying, again,
60-year-old men and women are children.
It's like in Europe they call these jihadis.
There's like another fetish thing on infowarstore.com
that we cover.
A German documentary on the kids channel for kids
showed a teenage girl, but like 14,
that dates her Arab boyfriend and everybody looked at it
and said that guy looks like he's 25
and it turned out he was.
And it's how cool it is on the kids' shows.
You know, get your Muslim boyfriend
and it's so great.
And it's just, this is what the government does.
They tell young girls, girls, go get a Muslim
who just came over, 80% military aged men
and even get on a plane with them.
Go back to the Middle East.
Or in many cases, you're never seen again, sweetheart.
And they always pick a sweet guy like,
we're so, we're Islamists and we're real sweet
and we're real Western.
And again, it's the priming, the pump.
They should have TV ads telling German women,
especially Eastern European women, man.
They are, you know, it's real poor.
They want to get out.
And these slick guys, baby, Jules, you're so beautiful.
Oh, you're going to come with me.
And if they're lucky, they end up in 50-guide gangbangs
shot in L.A.
Okay.
I mean, you want to get on a train to hell.
You go and you get on an airplane with an Islamic man
when you're 14, 15 years old.
You're 20, whatever.
You're crazy.
And it's one of the most known documented things out there.
And it's all about their love.
It's all about priming because the refugees aren't 15.
They're military age men and they are literally running TV ads
UN funded with rock star movie stars going,
I wear the Hajjib in German.
Oh, I love Islam.
And the issue is, we can show you those ads,
is that it's a German pop star saying,
wear a Hajjib, do this.
And it's just TV shows everywhere, saying young women,
the hot go-to and anti-racism conference, concert.
These women show up and it's mainly men.
And then 50 of them line up and gang rape them.
We got the videos.
Well, we don't show that.
We just show the women begging and clawing.
You can watch hours of them.
They come up for air like,
and it's just,
All right, that's enough.
Just get it off the screen.
I can't look at it. Here it is. See, look.
Me too, the Hajjib is beautiful.
Ah, enjoy the difference.
Ah, yes, enjoy.
Said the spider to the fly.
Yeah, don't bring people in if Europe has 1.3,
1.5 replacement rate from Asia.
Don't bring them in from Latin America.
Don't bring them in, don't encourage any of the Europeans
to have children.
Oh, that's a bad thing they're told.
Encourage North Africa and the Middle East.
Ah, ah, ah.
They advertise, come here.
We have women.
And then the imams, they have the,
when the men are weak, the women are ours.
We will go.
They are strong breeding stock.
We'll conquer the world with them.
It is the order of Allah to go to Germany
and take their women.
And then, Ergun came out last year and said,
we will burn down every European city
if you don't let us come in.
And your women are ours.
Ah, just hordes of, ah, ah, young Turks.
Ah, ah, ah, ah.
They'll kill all the Christians like we always do.
Ah.
And then it was like, liberal, ah, where the Hajjib, ah,
get on an airplane with him, go to Saudi Arabia,
go to Libya, go to Somalia.
And we're going to take you and show you on a slain block
to a sheik, and you'll never get out of the dungeon.
Introducing Cell Force by Infowars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production
by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency,
then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge
for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Infowars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
50,000 unstoppable watts.
Entrace and radio and liquor.
Entrace and radio and liquor.
Entrace and radio and liquor.
Entrace and radio and liquor.
Entrace and radio and liquor.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're back live.
This happened a few months ago, but we posted it because it hadn't gotten a lot of attention.
As much as it should, on infowars.com a few days ago.
And I didn't play the audio because it's kind of low, but we've edited it down to like five minutes.
You can watch the whole thing at privatesectorarms.com.
It's also on infowars.com.
The article's originally from Louder with Crowder.
A fat SJW walks into a gun store hilarity and says,
you know, I don't really think it's funny.
I mean, this person is whacked out, man.
They think an American flag's Nazi, a Gaston flag's Nazi.
They grab Bibles, they're throwing them all over the place, cracking the window, throwing them on the roof.
And this is a literal brainwashed victim.
And this is what SJWs are like.
We go out, our crew faces them, but they'll march up with guns and actually threaten us.
It's illegal to walk around with guns in most areas.
You don't do it, brandishing them.
So they're just allowed to do whatever they want.
And they're extremely dangerous because they really believe what they're being taught at college.
They tell them, you're important, you're powerful because you're going to fight Nazis.
They go home and play World of Warcraft and walks in and starts saying stuff about,
oh, you won't sell the, you know, the K word, one of the expletives for Jews.
And the left always just spews race garbage and everything.
I said, the mainstream media is broke back.
And the young Turks go, that's code for gay.
No, the original definition means broken, failed, dysfunctional.
But you guys take every word and then say we can't use it because your control freaks.
You're threatened by words.
Excuse me.
A fat SJW walks into a gun store and true sadness ensues.
It starts with Antifa Annie.
That's her name.
We think because California, they arrest you.
You even say the sex of somebody or don't say it.
We just say it.
And it's not just a Stephen King book.
So again, it starts with the Antifa Annie, mistaking a flag for Nazi flag.
It ends with Bibles being thrown the roof.
What's amazing is you got to go watch the full 10 and a half minute video because he is so polite.
He's so nice.
He never even tries to bait her.
I mean, I would have gotten mad.
You're like throwing Bibles around and calling me a Nazi and spewing expletives about Jews all day.
It's simply incredible.
So Don Teague was born in Washington and raises in the Philippines during the Marcos dictatorship as a missionary in the 80s and 90s.
He saw an early age.
Being a citizen was the right to bear arms was one of the greatest things about this country's freedom.
He began arms dealing in 97 created the private sector LLC in 2014 in July and the most left wing area of the capital city right near Evergreen College.
And you can tell us exactly where he's located as our name reflects the private sector LLC private sector arms for the sole purpose of facilitating the proliferation of small arms and tactics.
Among the law abiding, that's the opposite of the UN's deal.
So we're going to talk to him right now.
Again, he's in Washington state.
Thank you for joining us Don.
Do you think this is funny?
I'm not putting down Stephen Crowder.
He's a comic.
I think it's very disturbing.
Yeah, Alex.
No, I don't think that's very funny at all.
Unfortunately, it's pretty par for the course around here.
A lot of people act like that, a lot of people talk like that and drop all the words that everybody seems to be buzzing about these days.
But yeah, it was ridiculous.
She comes in, she starts asking me right off the bat using Nazi terms.
I'm assuming that she thought I was a Nazi.
And so she wanted to trap me in my prejudice by being like, hell no, I'd never sell to those people.
But yeah, I didn't even know what she was talking about at the time, but she educated me real quick.
And I'm not just saying this to be mean.
These people all act like central casting from a Hollywood movie where a nut house loses power and the doors get open and 10,000 lunatics get loose.
They all literally act like bridge dwellers.
Yeah, I've, you know, like I said, we see it a lot, but not to that level.
I mean, I didn't really think she would take it that far.
I guess I probably gave her a little bit too much rope to hang herself with.
But, you know, there wasn't a whole lot of damage other than I think mainly for everybody just kind of now validating that yes, in fact, people are out there like that.
You feel that way. They are saying those things.
They are coming up, getting in your face.
They're trying to bait you into doing something that they can then justify whatever kind of violence they want to inflict upon you.
Why should you choose to do that in a gun shop?
I have no idea.
And of course, ever in college, what you're by Olympia, right?
Right.
And so in memory serves, isn't that where the white teachers were held hostage?
And then they just said no whites allowed for a weekend or whatever.
And then the school defended that and said all whites must leave.
And then, and then professors that said this is insane and racist who are liberals, they were suspended, right?
Correct. Correct. They were.
So do we know if this mind control victim probably came from that college or where?
Yeah, I don't know for sure. She said something about that she was 30.
We found out later that in fact she was probably only 22, 23 years old.
She might have been going to college there or maybe, you know, and this comes from a guy who was homeschooled most of my life.
Maybe she was homeschooled and maybe it was not done appropriately in some basement somewhere.
I have no idea.
Well, exactly. There's a bad side of homeschooling with the left is sometimes right wing folks expanding on that.
I don't know if you ever saw the video of the, we call him goblin man attacking me with hot coffee.
They thought I staged that.
I mean, I would walk down the streets of Seattle and my wife and family said, look, stop going out alone.
They stayed in the hotel.
I was attacked every minute or so.
People throwing stuff, dumping coffee, screaming at me, screaming Nazi.
I mean, have you ever seen that footage?
I'm looking at it right now.
And yeah, that's that's crazy, man.
Yeah, I don't go downtown Seattle for that very reason.
No, I totally would believe that would be something that would happen.
It happens downtown Olympia all the time when people are trying to make a point in front of City Hall.
They do that to the police.
So yeah, of course, you're very, you know, people know what you look like.
You stand for all kinds of things that people don't don't appreciate or would like to shut you up about.
So tell us about the compendium of this or the track.
I mean, you live there a while.
I mean, what's the track of this?
You know, getting bad, I mean, and how bad do you think it's going to get?
They seem to be radicalizing, getting more delusional, more insane where they think the American flag is Nazi.
Right.
It's just misinformation or I guess they just say, OK, insert.
If I don't know anything about it, I'm going to insert whatever I can to justify my my outburst.
But yeah, it is getting worse.
I mean, this is the second time something like that has happened to us.
The first time was literally a year and a day earlier.
It was the day after Trump was elected and we had somebody spray paint FU about 12 times in two different colors all over our storefront.
They can really glue the doors, the locks, the hinges, both the front and the back.
That's anti fuck.
That's what they do.
Yeah.
And this guy was dressed the same tall, heavy set, all black, you know, shit wearing boo.
I guess keep us from doing business or something.
But it wasn't anything of a can of WD-40 couldn't work out.
We had the Communist attack publicly a cat shelter that was on a vacant lot because they said that white women ran it.
White liberals, by the way.
So they had a cat sanctuary.
They've been trying to shut down the blue cat cafe here in Austin.
And the news says it's a good thing.
The news goes out in the grease and says, oh, yes, these are white people.
I'm not kidding.
And vandalize the cat thing because that I mean, it's like as long as it says J.W., you just do it.
I think that's I think the media has empowered these people.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
Not only are they getting a whole bunch of press.
It's just like when anything else does anything stupid, people like to watch it a lot.
In fact, I, I really thought that there was somebody out there trying to take video of her doing what she was doing the way she was talking.
It didn't make any sense that somebody would be that dense.
Let's talk about only come back exactly just like ISIS does it for recruitment.
Let's talk about that and play some of the it coming into the store when we come back.
This is the real it folks.
Heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
The difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Buy in bulk, get a 12, 36 or 48 months supply or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
And fill the rest without the crash.
Brainforce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brainforce Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Fight in the Good Fight is trying to empower humanity.
There's nothing more liberal than being able to defend yourself and grow your own crops and raise your children as you see fit and worship God and not worship God.
Live and let live.
And the globalists have used our open society against us.
That's why George Soros calls his group the Open Society.
And they have got an army of antifa that they have at the Golden Globes and that they build up as these heavenly people that come up to my reporters in Austin with trigger fingers on their assault rifles to use their term.
And they say, are you scared? Because we're not letting you on to this park by the Capitol to speak. And Ellen Shroyer is by himself and I want a tough guy. He goes, yeah, they go, oh, you're shaking, your hands shaking when they're all bumping into him and hitting him and they got their guns.
They go, you scared? And he goes, yeah, I'm scared.
There are a bunch of thugs with guns bumping into me.
They had clubs hitting him on the sides.
They do off camera.
And again, these people are monsters. What was happening is he was scared because he was about to beat your brains out.
And don't think you little antifa turds, there weren't police snipers trained on you.
The point is, it's out of control.
And the slugs are all the weakest people you can imagine, but they're empowered by the media and the government.
And the police who don't even like them have been told, leave them alone, almost everywhere.
So I used to buy and I left this garbage even 10 years ago that the left, you know, what was called antifa, really,
well, I was told about antifascists longer ago than that by Steve Mason.
He warned me about him.
And I was like, what?
He's like, oh, yeah, the so-called anti-racist groups.
They're really racist and they're communist, red brigade, and they're in Austin.
And I'm like, okay, he's a documentary filmmaker, good friend of mine.
But I still, until I experienced them coming out in full force, and I remember, you know, Breitbart had articles.
Brandon Darby wrote articles about how they were trying to fire bomb stuff.
And I said, oh, that's a setup.
No, I was wrong.
And I apologize for that.
Brandon Darby was right about what they do.
So I apologized to Brandon Darby for articles not written by me, but by others that I then bought into.
So that's a correction years later.
And thank God they're in prison.
They deserve to be.
So speaking to Don Teague, privatesectorarms.com, privatesectorarms.com is the website for his site.
We're going to play some of this video here in a moment.
You talk about other attacks and things.
What is the climate?
How bad do you think it's going to get there after your gun shop got attacked by the person grabbing the Bibles that you were giving away free and throwing them into the glass and on the roof?
Yeah, well, we're kind of, we're up on a hill here and most of the activity happens downtown.
And as it turns out, a lot of people around here that protest are very lazy at protesting.
So they end up going downtown.
They start up here, they march down towards City Hall.
They make their deal down there.
They break a few things.
I guess one of the banks got smashed really bad downtown here a few months back.
They arrested the guy.
He was all masked up.
They threw him on the ground.
They handcuffed him.
Then they pulled the mask off and Judge let him go as the story goes because they did not identify him during the time that he actually committed the act only after they had already arrested him.
So there was no way to properly identify him.
So they ended up throwing it out.
So yeah, I mean, the police around here, they're definitely getting told to be hands off.
And I hope it doesn't ever come to this, but it just might get to the point where something happens that will might be a tragedy and a lot of people get hurt.
And we hope that doesn't happen.
The police around here, though, don't get me wrong.
These guys are great guys.
They do their best with what they have.
And I'm sure a lot of them personally feel a lot different than how the city is having them act.
And of course they are required to do their job accordingly.
But I bet if you or I who are more libertarian and Christian conservatives, if we went to gun shop and threw Bibles up against the window and cracked it and threw them on the roof and told people they were Nazis, we'd get arrested for disorderly conduct.
But I guess you didn't really push for that, did you?
Yeah, no, I wanted to, you know, I wanted them to tell me what the what the crime was here.
You know, I wanted to find out, I mean, is there a misdemeanor, what's going on?
They pretty much just told me, yeah, she didn't commit any crime.
I guarantee you, I guarantee you, if those were Karan's, she'd be in jail right now.
Oh, it'd be a hate crime.
Yeah, it would be ridiculous.
But of course, if you look at the video, you notice that they didn't even know those were my Bibles.
They thought those were her Bibles.
So when they showed up, what they thought they were against was literally a religious gender fluid act of something that hadn't quite done anybody.
No, no, no.
She said, I want to burn these Bibles.
She came to destroy your religious freedom.
She literally is a book burning anti-fascist when that's what the fascists do is burn books.
Right, right.
And of course, I told her, yeah, you could do whatever you want, read it, burn it.
I was obviously being sarcastic.
I didn't actually expect her to be like, well, actually, I would burn it.
Well, that's what the Nazis did.
So kind of strange.
She's coming in.
She's using, you know, she's using the horrible language.
And then she's burning, wanting to burn books, asking me if it's strictly Christian.
You know, the whole first part of that old New Testament, the whole first part of that is the Torah.
So here she says she loves Jews, but she says the K word.
I think she might've got offended because when she walked through the door, the first thing she said was,
I'll bet you don't even sell to K.
And what I thought she said was, I'll bet you don't even sell the dykes.
Well, I do actually.
We have a huge transgender community in the area.
President of Pink Pistols is one of our number one fans around here.
So in fact, we do.
So my response to that was, hell yeah, I sell the dykes.
Well, then she basically corrected me on what it was that she had said and then walked around,
pointed out a few other things, asked me if I even obey the law, some stuff like that you saw.
She grabbed a plastic gun, a rubber ducky in here that was for training.
She pointed it at me, pulled the trigger.
She looked really depressed that it didn't go bang.
So I kind of rubbed the handle on my gun and I told her, you know, that's a fake, right?
And she's like, well, that doesn't do me any good then.
And so she kind of threw it on the ground.
I asked her to put it back.
And then that's when I went ahead and started filming it.
We're going to come back in a moment and play.
Amazing.
We're going to come back in a moment and play some of this, but let's start playing some of it now.
When she comes in to the facility and her, she's calling him a Nazi and saying, why do you have Nazi flags?
Here it is.
Nothing.
Nothing to call me that's illegal.
No, it's not legal.
Of course not.
I'm a law-abiding citizen, aren't you?
We're all law-abiding in our own ways.
Let's see here.
Really, you don't do anything illegal?
Nope.
Do you do anything illegal?
Why don't you come in here and ask me that?
That's kind of messed up.
Well, I'm just assuming.
Why are you being the agro though?
I'm not being agro.
I'm just being like inquisitive.
Right.
The first thing you did is you came in and asked me if I sell the ****.
I don't even know what that is.
You don't even know what **** that is.
What is it?
Dudes.
Dudes?
Yeah.
There's a price if you don't.
Well, I would sell the juice.
Sure.
Really?
That's culturally funny.
You don't like juice much?
No, I love juice.
I just don't like it.
We're bleeping the K-word and all that because they'll say we did it.
Why would you be surprised that I don't know?
Well, it's just because of the ****.
Right, but I just told you that that was a Nazi.
I don't get it then, actually.
It's not a Nazi.
I don't know what it is.
Still, I mean, it's, you know...
You are familiar with the Nazis, though.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, definitely.
Right.
Sure.
Definitely.
Right.
So it's very publicized what actually stands for them.
Interesting.
Those are free.
You can take one of those if you want.
Free Bibles?
Sure.
Are these...
You can read it, burn it, do whatever you want with it.
Really?
Yeah.
That's actually nice of you because I would burn it.
Okay.
But I mean, actually are these...
All right, folks.
We'll be back with the craziness going on outside Evergreen College in Olympia.
Washington.
We're truly the inmates are free running wild like day of the dead.
And they think we're all Nazis and they're out to get us.
They're just lunatics.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's info wars life dot com.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to info wars life dot com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12.
That's info wars life dot com.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
their most potent forms including uricoma longifolia originally from Malaysia, makaroo from Peru,
horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into
the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into the brain and body function with secret 12.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It was eight years ago that Obama had been in office about a year and a half and we got documents from federal marshals and then when I showed those documents on air and covered them about two days later state police officer in California sent me the information.
I know how to look at these documents and when I read over these new ones that are so huge, I said either somebody super smart took all the main statements of these groups and things they've done and things they've said they're doing.
Because they have the same tactics nationwide and worldwide, overthrowing countries, George Soros funds them, he brags about it, Ukraine you name it, that somebody took this and put their agenda into it to bring attention to it.
But as you said we were talking earlier, I've got Harrison Smith and one of our great researchers and videographers.
If these documents are real posted to 4chan, who breaks more news, real news than the New York Times and the Washington Post combined, if this is real, then this is the smoking gun because we know they're funding it.
Soros brags the overthrows countries, crashes things.
Antifa was in the New York Times on November 1st saying starting November 4th it begins, drive from from office, you go to refusefascism.org they say we're going to be violent up front, we're allowed to because you're all Nazis if you're a capitalist, you deserve it.
Kill the cops, you name it, I mean this is what they push, they've now been listed as a terrorist organization. So these documents are in line with what they already admit.
And we'll get Roger Stone writing shut down with us, former head of the Trump campaign, take but just walk through where these come from, what the backstory is purportedly on these.
And we're going to document camp for TV viewers, Don Salazar is writing a blurb about this with the documents to go up on infowars.com and newswars.com, but out of the gates, the material in the Russian dossier is all been proven completely fake, and it was fake on its front from the beginning.
When you read these documents, it's real stuff, real plans, things they said before just put together and reportedly a nondisclosure document and contract.
So please, as we swing the document cam over, this is Friends of Democracy, a group admittedly run by George Soros' aide apparent Alexander Soros.
You've got the floor here for the rest of the segment and we'll come back with Roger and break this down. Tell us exactly what we're looking at here.
Sure. Well, like you said, you know, we can theorize and we can have sort of the point by point timeline what happens, but until we have the actual documents, I mean, this is, if these are true, this is the smoking gun.
And we really, right now we have researchers trying to figure out whether or not these are authentic. They seem authentic to me. The only real problem with it is that they are almost too good to be true.
It almost says exactly what we would expect them to say, and it's almost like two... We have them on CNN and MSNBC saying we're going to be violent, we're allowed to attack you and kill you, we're coming, we're going to kill the president.
I mean, they're saying all this in public. Absolutely. And at the time, so these documents have to do with the 2015 Baltimore riots, the Black Lives Matter riots that were inspired by...
Which we know was funded by the Justice Department.
Yes. Well, yeah, we know that a lot of people are putting funds into all these riots that, of course, started with Ferguson and spread throughout all of these things.
So this goes back to 2015. And where this comes from is there is a user on 4chan. 4chan is a totally anonymous website.
Sure. It's like a place for WikiLeaks.
Yeah. It's like WikiLeaks. There's obviously a lot of fake stuff posted there, probably, but this seems pretty real.
And so a user says that his brother basically was a loser, a loner, barely had a job, and yet recently, in the last couple years, he'd taken to traveling around the United States.
So this guy who leaked it said he was a little suspicious.
Which they admit Soros is funding a group of about a thousand that they fly around.
Well, he just gave $18 billion. I mean, what you could do with that money is ridiculous.
So obviously, there's tons of funds to fly people around to program these people, train these people.
So I'm saying what you read in here is what they're doing to continue.
Right. And so this leaker says he went looking through his brother's stuff, basically looking for proof of where his brother was getting his money.
He thought maybe it was going to be drugs. He was looking for sort of proof that his brother was maybe involved in something he shouldn't be involved in.
Well, he found these documents. And so these documents he took a picture of with his cell phone and then posted them to 4chan.
And it's an action document from the Friends of Democracy, which is a pack by George Soros' son that its mission statement is to get money out of politics.
So that's funny enough. But this is action BWI 041815.
BWI is the airport code for Baltimore, 0418 is April 18th, which is 15, 2015, which is the date that the riots started.
And this says that the Action Oversight Committee of the Friends of Democracy has determined that on this Saturday,
operators will implement Action 041315 in part to seize as much momentum as possible from current civil unrest in the Baltimore area.
Friendly officials in various administrative agencies for Baltimore have told us to expect large law enforcement response to our operations.
So it talks about friendly.
But then they selectively did stand down in Baltimore and let anti-fine attack.
Oh, it literally says that. It says, Agit Orgs. They have this militaristic and Orwellian way of describing everything.
So Agit Orgs, which I guess is agitation organizers, at each act point have a specific...
That's all Agit Prop. That's all Soviet.
It sounds very Soviet. And they have specific departure times and must travel on designated routes.
These routes have been guaranteed by friendly Baltimore officials and law enforcement as safe for ops and oxops.
So this entire thing is coordinated.
The safe zones are coordinated. Just like we saw in Charlottesville, they were all coordinated with the police.
Not yet.
Which later confirmed when I said the media attacked that they were ordered to stand down.
In order to funnel rioters against each other to cause violence. Yeah, this hasn't stopped.
I mean, this was in 2015. It's only probably gotten worse than that.
I believe these documents are real.
They seem extremely real. And they have signatures at the bottom that all seem like they come from different hands.
I mean, it would be hard to fake all of these signatures.
Is that his brother's signature?
We don't know.
Let's continue.
Yeah, we haven't been able to identify that. So not only do they have friendly law enforcement in there,
they actually are communicating with them during the riot.
And this is called level seven.
Soros is set up as a private intelligence op.
That's why the last James Bond movie they admit is based on him and his quantum group, which is his real group.
Yeah.
And so these two are the most important ones.
It's post-action objectives.
And this is where it almost seems like it's too good to be true. The primary objectives.
Because if this is true, it's smoking gun of organized crime terrorism.
100%. Ideal objective outcome. Civil unrest that leads to the deployment of martial law-like policies for Baltimore creating a feedback loop.
Literally, they're saying it here.
Take it nationwide.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, it's a detonator.
Well, and they want to cause violence against the police to inspire police response to inspire more conflict with police.
More with local government for federal takeover, which Lynch was announcing a strong cities initiative and announcing the U.N. to federalize cities under civil emergency mainstream niche.
And at the same time, the Open Societies Foundation was sending people in secret to lobby the government for federal oversight or federal control of local police.
So literally, they're making the problem with one hand and offering the solution with the other.
The solution is, of course, more control, more federalization, centralization.
And these documents are going live on infowars.com as we speak.
We're going to come back at Roger Stone's take on this and get into the heart of these documents with one of our great researchers, videographers.
It's so great to have Harrison Smith here with us.
I really am always pushing him to get more on air.
We're going to start a whole new show soon with the great crew here.
Zach back there and other folks are really smart.
So we're going to get everybody on air.
We're going to get Dari on air.
We're going to get Allie on air.
We're going to get everybody.
We're going to get Matt on air.
Everybody's going to be on air.
We'll be right back. Stay with us.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Rainforest Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Rainforest Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Rainforest Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
Rainforest Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
Rainforest Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formula working with some scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And Harrison Smith and Roger Stone, who was dead on about Bannon at least eight months ago.
He went from why is Bannon doing nothing, why is Bannon helping him?
Why is he bringing in deep staters to eight months ago?
We got to come out against him.
We got to do it.
He's an operator.
He's getting 25th Amendment ready.
I'm told he's bringing in all these bad people.
He's the leaker.
Roger, I think you're wrong.
And Roger respected me enough to be sort of working with us to not do go on this crusade, which was correct.
But maybe Bannon wouldn't have revealed himself.
Maybe they would have pulled the book.
That's all their subject.
He's going to bring that up.
The point is we break next year's news today, as we say.
So Roger Stone, I'm normally hosting this hour.
Pretty similar one, 20 hours today live.
So Roger live more hours than ever once.
We're breaking this incredible news.
It just went live on infowars.com.
I'm told it on Salazar has posted it with the documents.
Roger, you just heard about these documents.
We're trying to authenticate them.
But everything in them has been public statements by Antifa, by the globalists of their plan.
And this appears if real to be a serious smoking gun tying it all together with the funding that we know they're involved in.
What do you make of this?
Well, first of all, Alex, my congratulations to Harrison Smith and Rob Dew for getting the entire document.
We first learned of this and reported it yesterday on the war room.
But we had only obtained three pages of what appears to be a blueprint for revolution, a game plan for the violent overthrow of the American system.
Now, Harrison, I believe, has turned up the entire document and it is the veritable smoking gun.
In the meantime, we've had the opportunity to show this document to some of our sources in US Army Intelligence and they tell us they believe they are authentic.
Now, don't hold your breath if you don't see coverage of this stunning development on CNN in tonight's news.
No, I think that's unlikely.
What we do, what we do have here, though, is is an extraordinary expose of exactly what George Soros has in mind for America and why it's time for the US Justice Department to recognize Soros for what he is, Alex.
Not some benign old philanthropist, but a criminal who is using violence and financing violence to overturn our system of democracy.
Our Republican, and to be clear, everything in this document, other than the signatures and things, is things they've done word for word and their plans and actually what they've said.
And then Soros is admittedly with his son, his son admittedly does run these groups, is honchoing it, is doing this, and has overthrown other governments with it.
And they've said on the news that they're going to use anti-funds, CNN says they're legitimate.
So, again, somebody either wrote a big article about what they've admittedly done, put it in document form, skills I've never seen, or it's completely authentic.
But either way, it is very damning.
Harrison, let's go through more of the document at the time we have here.
Sure, yeah, speaking of the violence, this is, so supposedly in this packet, there are 26 pages, or at least at the bottom of these pages, it'll say one out of 22, one out of 26.
So, we have six documents, which is the total amount that is on line right now, and they're actually hard to find, and the fact that they've been scrubbed pretty much as soon as they're put up is one of the reasons that I think they're authentic.
Speaking of violence, this is page nine, and it's escalation level three or four. It says, quote, the decision to escalate to three or four is based upon assessment from the committee, along with information from law enforcement and Baltimore officials.
Again, this means that law enforcement and Baltimore officials-
And they admittedly had to stand down.
Yeah, they did. The mayor, I believe, admitted it.
She said Obama told her to.
Yeah, I didn't know that.
Pull that up. Yeah, I don't know.
Okay, and so-
Justice Department told her.
So that means that, I mean, this was a protest against the police, that the police are actively organizing and manipulating while it's actually happening. That's what this is saying.
And so what it says is that escalation level three and four, that basically means attacking buildings and destroying storefronts and that sort of thing.
But it says that we've coordinated with several local businesses and their insurance agencies to ensure the recovery of their assets and repair of their infrastructure in the event that either is harmed during the demonstration.
So the layers of collusion that are going on.
It's all synthetic in a leftist city.
Not just, I mean, literally, it's like play acting.
They're like, yeah, there's the story.
And that's why they admittedly, for other areas, admittedly hire action role players and actors to do it, and then they simulate it.
Well, and again, this document breaks down actually the chain of command where they have the adjut orgs, and then they have the operators.
And then they have the auxiliary operators.
And then they say, you know, oh, you're allowed to use weapons, which they call props.
You're allowed to use those as long as other demonstrators have done it first.
So they're edging and they have a law enforcement threat continuum.
And they're pushing the people who really are there because, you know, people that went to these riots, a lot of them, that emotion was real.
They really were going to protest, but they're being manipulated and puppeteered and encouraged in a certain way.
So the outcome of the controllers is reached.
They're basically being made to enslave themselves in a lot of ways.
And here's another interesting.
So this is either real or someone who has intimate knowledge of their actual attack profile has this.
Right.
If this was fake, it would just be impressive that they were able to fake this.
I'm not bragging, but I mean, I'm an expert on the anti-fascist and the Black Lives Matter in the globalist going back to Seattle covering it there.
This has a more, this is the maximum knowledge of them.
This has got to be real.
Or again, someone who has been inside made it.
Right.
And so here's another interesting thing.
This says that we are expecting possible injuries, if not from today's action, then very likely during action BWI 042515.
On the 25th of April, if you look at the Wikipedia, it says like 18th, protest begins, 25th, violence escalates.
And again, they say in the New York Times, the nightmare must end.
The Trump-Pence regime must go.
November 4th, it begins.
Be there.
Join with thousands who gather in cities and towns across the country.
Move it a protest to continue every day, every night, growing until we become millions determined to stop until this regime is driven from power.
And then it goes through it on the plan, calling for violence on the website.
Right.
You know, that's a $100,000 ad.
You can't do that.
You know what shocked me?
Stuff on the site is word for word from that.
Well, and it talks about the agitation of local civilian population, the escalation of civil unrest, the provocation of hostile, they say hostile law enforcement, which hostile probably just means-
Once they don't control, people that might actually stand up.
We were in D.C. for the inauguration.
The cops were later admitted.
In order to stand down, the antifa was able to beat up the Black Lives Matter.
Families just trying to get in, even press just trying to get in.
They manly targeted women for some reason, trying to get men to fight back, knowing men will fight if you go after a woman.
And then they admitted we're targeting women to do this.
And it took me hours to get in.
Then they said no one was there.
This is simply astonishing.
Okay.
And so here we see some of the outline of the funding, how they're paid, when they're paid.
You have this sticky note that supposedly is from this guy who the documents belong to.
It's maybe calculating his take, which seems to be $26,000 for one person for this one event, as well as travel, because he didn't live in the same city.
Well, if he appears from the document, he's a squad leader.
Right.
He's level 70.
The operator.
This may be to operate the whole node he's bringing in.
Yeah.
It seems like these documents are the operator level.
This is a platoon funding.
Right.
And there'd be people above him who are called Agent Orgs and people below him who he would probably control called Auxiliary Ops.
Who knows, you know, how much knowledge they actually have of what they're involved in.
But that shows, and it says, do not report this income to anybody.
They've handled it with the tax authorities and accounting firms.
I mean, the levels of collusion just don't end.
And then finally, they have this approved practices, which really, I mean, it just blatantly says, you know, closed fist may be used only below the neck and above the belt.
Kicking is not permitted unless provoked.
Props, they say.
Props, which just means weapons.
And I always wonder, why do they hit me low and why do they knock your food over?
It's all in there.
They're not following instructions.
Yeah, they're not doing anything, you know, for themselves.
You know, do not congregate with other ops or oxops in a group of more than two.
Do not make prolonged eye contact when in crowds.
Which is why they never talk and why they never, it's all a programmer.
It's all acting.
It's all play acting.
It's why the communists will never talk to you on camera because they're controlled.
Yep.
And it says they'll update you before aggressiveness should be increased in concert with the law enforcement and the officials.
Do not engage with the friendly.
This is a great one.
Allied law enforcement have been instructed to merely not engage but have not been told to assist.
Same thing that happened in Berkeley.
They're not helping the rioters, but they're not.
The gun stores attacked three times we just had on last hour.
The police won't help.
They won't help them and they're told not to.
He's kicking his car, attacking, throwing bibles that he gives away on top of the building.
Nothing is done.
Yeah.
And so this has, it just has the chain of command who's escalating it.
This protest against law enforcement is being orchestrated by law enforcement.
Let's come back with Roger because this is too important.
He wants to cover this.
Again, they admit the goal was to trigger a chain reaction of dominoes of martial law and then Obama could come in, but they failed.
America didn't buy it.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day.
Up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargists.
Secret 12. Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
And I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are.
We're coming back against it, so we need your support.
Alpha Power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into their most potent forms, including
uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo from Peru,
horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with Alpha Power.
Get Alpha Power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You know, we're sending out an SOS. George Soros is overthrown more than 10 countries he brags about the latest Ukraine.
He's overthrown financially more than 20.
He's a Nazi war criminal. He admittedly funds antifa, the Islamic groups in the U.S., all of it.
And they've got stuff saying overthrow the government, go after the cops, you know, all this stuff before last November.
And then you see these documents.
So Harrison, other key points, things we should recap.
We're talking about triggering martial law three years ago, back in 2015, three and a half years ago,
so that Obama could basically stay in office.
And it turned out that the Justice Department was funding it.
They were pushing it.
This is their goal to get America fighting with each other, but it didn't work.
I want to get Roger Stone's take on this, but finish up with the documents here.
They're now on infowars.com. Don got the article up, correct?
The blurb? We'll put that on screen, too.
infowars.com to see these. Go ahead.
Sure, yeah, just to go over again the timeline. Obviously, the Ferguson riots that happened as a result of the killing of Mike Brown, I believe,
you know, those snowballed and spread to different cities.
The people in Baltimore saw this happening and with the death of Freddie Gray, actually the arrest of Freddie Gray on the 12th,
they jumped on this opportunity and either enacted a plan that they had planned previously or planned at that point this entire insurrection that was taking place in Baltimore.
And it's so crazy. You could see the media scripting it, pushing it.
Starbucks saying, you know, tell whites they're bad when you come by coffee.
It was a total hysteria that Jeff Bezos was pushing all of it.
I mean, it's ridiculous.
Right. And there you see them destroying some of the storefronts and stuff that were probably preplanned positions.
They're probably being directed by these adjutors.
And again, it's very racist.
In many cases, they've caught them hiring black people but led by the whites and mask to come out and burn stuff to then create racial division.
Well, and it's a double-sided deal.
Oh, absolutely. Well, yeah, their ultimate goal is obviously division.
And I mean, they even say it.
It says escalation of civil unrest.
It says they want to create an environment where organic conflict can grow.
This is what they say.
Yeah, this is what they say their goal is.
And these protests were supposedly a reaction to police violence.
This is a protest against the police.
And yet in these documents, we have the police actually orchestrating and telling the protesters where to go.
And we know the police letter came out and said, we were told by the Justice Department to stand down.
Don't be mad at us.
Just like DC for the inauguration.
I want to just stop here.
It's over an hour and a half.
I haven't plugged.
I don't even plug anymore sometimes because the news is so hot.
It's a paradox.
When it's super hot, I just drop plugging and then we don't fund ourselves and we can't expand.
We need to hire more camera people.
We need to hire more riders.
We need more people like Harrison.
Harrison, you know, you've been here how long?
Almost a year.
A year in February.
And what?
I mean, have you seen this like what we had, like 20, 30 people since then?
It's been huge since I moved here.
It's almost an entirely new office here.
Because so far, I've not paid myself last year.
I am literally reviewing the final accounting, which is fine.
I'm putting everything into this and dealing with other attacks behind the scenes.
And I'm not bitching.
It's great.
We just, a lot of money means we can take the globalist on.
And you see the great people we're hiring, what we're doing and the effects we're having.
You've got videos you've put out with a million views, dozens with a half million views, just
having you here.
Oh, and all the people, it's amazing.
Infowarstore.com, immune wall, our latest high quality product to boost your immune system.
Naturally, it's amazing.
25% off.
We have ended the free shipping as I promised, but they didn't end it.
I'm not mad.
I just tell them to do it and we're sober when we haven't done it.
I guess I'd still up there and 50% off.
That's why I'm not even plugging the new speckles because they're not up.
I'm not mad.
They were a small organization.
But infowarstore.com, commit to support us.
Pray for us.
Spread the links.
Spread the articles.
Roger Stone, I mean, this is incredible that what's, again, everything in these documents
is what they've already admitted they're up to.
So it's just crazy.
Where do you see this going now as their Russian narrative implodes, as Trump being mentally ill
and plugs, as their operative banon that we literally discovered as a globalist operative
is ferreted out, but his stay behinds are still there.
I mean, this is incredible.
Look, Alex, we've always understood that this backdrop of violence is what is necessary
for the 25th Amendment takedown of our president.
These two strategies work hand in glove.
My intention now that I have satisfied myself through my own army intelligence sources,
that these documents are real, I'm going to seek comment tomorrow from the office of Maryland
Governor Larry Hogan.
I want to know whether local law enforcement in Baltimore acquiesced in this plan for
violence and to undermine the rule of law.
We are going to the governor's office tomorrow for his comment.
And I want to know what action the Maryland state government is going to take about these
clear revelations regarding corruption for the purposes of violence within the Baltimore
city government and the Baltimore city police department.
The whole thing is absolutely breathtaking.
You know, Alex, when I went to Hungary and Romania six months ago, officials in both places predicted
exactly this, almost word for word, they told me exactly how it worked and that this is
what Soros would do.
They've seen it in Europe and they said it's coming your way.
Make no mistake about the criminal nature of George Soros and what he has in mind.
Why is this guy not locked?
I mean, he's been convicted in a bunch of countries.
And his little evil gremlin son.
I mean, what is up?
You know, I think that there are some people, unfortunately, that have so much wealth that
they live in an aura of protection.
George Soros lives in New York City.
He could be detained very easily by the FBI, by the New York police department.
We have here absolute proof of involvement in crimes.
It is against the law to advocate the murder of the president of the United States.
It's against the law to pay someone else to advocate the murder of the president of the
United States or any federal official.
Yet, Mr. Soros has done that repeatedly, seemingly with a punity.
Well, that's right.
Everything in that document, whether it's real or not, is stuff they've all done.
And I'm just sick of it.
I mean, you know, it was very emboldened now when our reporters are out there walking up
on you scared with guns.
That's brandishing right there.
That's a felony, man.
I went to the police station, Owen and I went to the police station to try to file a report
about that.
And they basically told us there's nothing we can do about it.
In Austin, the local officer police said, oh, you got to take that to the FBI.
And these are the groups that are literally advocating when they launch their main operation.
That was just a beta test to literally go out when the revolution starts and shoot.
Each person is supposed to shoot five cops a night.
And I mean, if the cop unions put up with this, I don't say you deserve it.
God, man up, man.
We're standing up against these puds.
I'm tired of putting up with them.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I'm not even some cop worshiper.
They're good cops or bad cops.
But God Almighty, a bunch of communists want to kill you funded by some evil Nazi collaborator.
I'm done, man.
That was one of the things that when I watched the Baltimore riots in 2015, I, you know,
I've always been, you know, very, it's always been important to me to see police brutality
and to make, to make that more aware, make people more aware of that and all that sort
of stuff.
But during the Baltimore riots, I saw these agitators throwing rocks at the police and
stuff.
And I go, man, this is such a bad tactic.
I am suddenly on the side of the police in this situation.
It's insane.
Let's go ahead.
It was the leftist always priming us against the cops.
And then the government passes laws.
We blame the cops for what the laws are.
It's our fault.
Nine times out of 10.
It's not a cop worship.
It's a stop scapegoating.
It's our problem.
We let it happen.
Let's do something.
Owen Shroyer is about to take over with the war room and Roger Stone.
Owen Shroyer, you want to pop in and go ahead.
Yeah, I had to pop in when I heard you guys having this conversation because I got privy
to something today.
Now, if you watched one of our videos when we were covering the Kate Steinle March, there
was a gentleman.
That's when they, that's when they came with guns and wouldn't let you go to it.
Right.
Right.
So that same day, Alex, and as Harrison just mentioned, we brought this to the police's
attention that they were pointing guns at me, clearly breaking the law.
I've actually got the law.
If this happens again, I've got the law.
They say, aren't you scared?
You know, we got guns.
Yeah.
With his finger on the trigger, tapping his finger, I'll tap his.
Look at this.
That same day, that same day, a fellow who was walking side by side with me, he had a
handgun and he got arrested for having a handgun that day.
I remember.
So they arrested a guy who was a conservative for having a handgun, but somehow these individuals
who, who mashed their face and point rifles at me, get away, arrest free.
Because these are the brown shirts of the dirty city council with their bedwrecking
and their scams and all their insider garbage, and it's time to go to the bars.
It's time to go out.
It's time for women.
When these guys hit on you that are city officials to, you know, you're an operative
for America.
You're not commanded by anybody.
I infiltrated Bohemian Grove.
You name it.
Not run by some agency.
It's time for us to run operations against them.
Yeah.
It's like we need women to infiltrate the Democrats.
We just.
Well, but I gotta say this, Alex, my hats off to the guy who has the hammer and sickle on
his mask.
At least he's telling you exactly what he is, a communist that killed 200 million people.
I mean, it's like the Nazis were horrible.
They killed 30 million.
These people have killed hundreds of millions and we're supposed to kiss their big fat asses.
They are the ones fomenting revolution and it's time for the silent majority to demand
action.
They want war.
They want to kill us.
We're just going to info war there.
But Roger, are you going to be on the war room coming up?
Absolutely.
Looking forward to it.
It starts now.
Questions.
Come forward.
Last show.
Radio stations across the country starting to pick it up.
Folks, we're under attack.
We're not bitching.
We love this fight.
But every time you pray for us, buy a product, spread a link, it's just kind of like a video
game.
Get more pop.
And they just can't stand it because the more they beat us down, you keep building us
up.
It's just like, they blast my fist off and the other one grows and we're just smashing
them.
Thanks to all you guys and the great crew.
The war rooms coming up info wars.com forward slash show.
The new probiotic line developed exclusively by info wars life.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
Floor life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics.
So if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut
health and your wallet.
Floor life supports your body's core where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to info wars life.com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today.
That's infowarslife.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarsore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items
are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
