We play the songs that sound more like everyone else than anyone else.
Hitler took the guns, Stalin took the guns, Mao took the guns, that El Castro took the
guns, Hugo Chavez took the guns, 1776 will commence again if you try to take our firearms.
The Republic will rise again when you attempt to take our guns.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is Thursday, the 25th day of January 2018, hard to believe.
The first month of this year is almost gone.
We have amazing exclusive footage of the president arriving in Davos and a lot of other amazing
stuff coming up that our great reporter, Dan Lyman, is there shooting and reporting
on that's posted on infowars.com and more going up as we speak.
We have just the wheels coming off, the car blowing up, the walls closing in on the deep
state on the secret society, Clinton, crime cabal inside the Justice Department and the
FBI that's been ruling over this country since the mid-1990s as the Clintons committed
massive crimes in front of everybody as the public and journalists and patriots in the
government and people across the board realize the globalist are at war with the American
people through their shadow government, through their deep state.
Now that it's identified and that it's run by the Communist Chinese, the EU and others,
there's no putting it back together again.
We have crossed the point of no return, the event horizon.
Here's what Lou Dobbs had to say last night.
Good evening, everybody.
It may be time to declare war outright against the deep state and clear out the rot in the
upper levels of the FBI and the Justice Department.
Yes, I said the rot.
The FBI and the DOJ have broken the public trust by destroying evidence, defying oversight
and actively trying to bring down the Trump presidency.
Tonight, there are new concerns that anti-Trump FBI officials formed even a secret society
at the FBI to subvert the president after his election.
That's according to two Republican lawmakers who've seen some of the thousands of texts
between the FBI's Peter Strzok and Lisa Page.
And we have the full then 10-minute segment where he annihilates them posted on infowars.com
an article we wrote about the report on Fox Business last night.
You asked my opinion, some of the best, most hard-hitting information is on Fox Business
and Lou Dobbs is a total patriot, wouldn't even know about the globalist in mainstream
media if it wasn't for him and many others.
But I just have to thank Lou Dobbs for his courage.
It is time to declare war because they've already declared war on us and now they're
cornered rats.
As I keep saying, we've reached the most dangerous point right now because the walls are closing
in.
This story hits close to home.
It's a miscalculator with legal reaction.
Now also tonight, the walls are closing in on those responsible for this massive corruption,
abuse of power at the top levels of government in what we are now calling state-sponsored
sabotage.
Now with this flood of damning news exposing all this malfeasance, the special counsel
Robert Mueller and his spokespeople in the media are now working overtime.
They want to create as many distractions as possible and discredit anybody that's telling
the truth like us here on the Fox News channel for daring to report on the truth.
Now to be perfectly clear for those that don't pay attention and want to advance lies and
false narratives.
We are not and never have been and never will be talking about rank and file members of
the FBI, the DOJ and the intelligence community.
That's right.
We'll be right back.
And the reason that's critical is they keep saying, oh, you hate all the FBI or by the
federal government.
It's mainly FBI agents, former and current that are speaking out against this and exposing
it.
So this is a criminal Clinton cabal, globalist cabal hooked in with all these foreign powers
that had been taking control of America and it's being rooted out.
That's what the whole Trump presidency is about.
And you heard it here first.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Food is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals.
Let a meal go to waste, use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
The video is also being posted as we speak to InfoWars.com.
Our HD footage, that I think is better than the other footage I've seen, a lot of it exclusive
of Marine One, all three of them, because they used two of them as decoys with anti-missile
systems on board, landing up at the plateau beneath the mountain in Davos, Switzerland.
And then of course the president getting out and then traveling into Davos.
That happened obviously earlier today because they are what's eight hours ahead of us there
in Switzerland.
I guess eight hours ahead of Texas time, seven hours ahead of New York time, Eastern time.
There's an amazing new graph and new spreadsheet that goes into more detail about the deep state
secret society insurance policy group that the folks at the Epoch Times have put together.
They're the mainly Buddhist run world newspaper that exposes communist China harvesting their
organs and selling them.
And so that's one big reason they keep exposing other communist Chinese basically run this
country on the last 20 years until Trump showed up.
And so the communist Chinese are being evicted out of running Harvard, UT, you name it, that
was in the Washington Post last week, Hollywood, you name it, the communist Chinese intelligence.
And this basically breaks down how the insurance policy set everybody up in stunning detail.
So I'm going to be tweeting this out at real Alex Jones very, very soon.
And coming up at the bottom of the hour, I'm going to go through it piece by piece.
But how the whole operation through Hillary Clinton ran through fusing GPS through the
Justice Department, through the FBI, through political operatives, who they then pointed
their fingers at, and then into who they tried to set up and who they tried to destroy with
Obama coming in.
This is very well done, double teaming, giving governmental power in between the political
operatives of Hillary, Hollywood, Republican allies, the Democratic Party, between Obama
and the intelligence agencies in a pincer attack with John Brennan, the CIA and others,
one of the Robert Mueller, Comey and others, Loretta Lynch, all working in tandem, as well
as Jay Johnson, to engage in one of the biggest criminal conspiracies the world has ever seen
that has now been blown absolutely, completely, and totally wide open.
Now, there is a FISA memo that chronicles the last two and a half years activity that
was posted to the Director of National Intelligence website and got almost no attention.
William Benny, former technical head of the NSA, was contacted and said, this is the main
body, the 98, a nine page memo that Nunes has the secret parts of, and that is going
to be in a larger summary and report he's going to put out, but there's four pages
he's alluding to that is the blacked out areas of the document that is still classified,
the whole document was classified, and that it shows the perjury of Justice Department,
foreign current FBI and others on what they've testified to versus what's in the document.
That then connects into the secret society, it connects into the insurance policy, it connects
into the offsite secret meetings, it connects into the erased text messages, and they have
text messages where they said we're now going to all erase our text messages, but that got
picked up in the dragnets, so they've been caught, and right now, because we have people
that have courage like Devin Nunes and Trey Gowdy and Jim Jordan and others, because of
this the whole house of cards is coming down, so first the media said there is no memo,
and they came out and said, here's the headline, did Devin Nunes invent his own smoking gun?
We already have the smoking guns with the head, deputy head of the FBI, meeting in secret
to organize the insurance policy, we already have them saying we can't let Trump get in
when he was president-elect, we've got to stop him, we have the whole chain of events
from when he was a candidate to the nominee to the president-elect, and they just didn't
know what to do with themselves, and so now they lied to Congress, Comey lied, Mueller
lied, McCabe lied, they all lied over and over again, so their insurance policy, the
whole they dug for American voters to kill our will and the restoration of our republic,
at least getting control of our country back in the hands of the states and the Congress
and the president and the courts, that's all this is, is a second American revolution
against the new modern form of globalist colonialism taking our country back, and they don't know
what to do, and that's why we're at the critical juncture right now, because the walls are
closing in, as Sean Hannity said last night, as I've been saying for the last few weeks,
they're cornered rats, and the best way to say it is the walls are closing in, I describe
it as water, like in a movie, you're trapped in a submerged boat or something, and the
water is coming in, it's an upside down capsized boat, or it's one of those old movies where
you're in the Egyptian temple, and all of a sudden the sand starts pouring in, and a
big stone blocks the door, that is exactly the analogies I've used, and Hannity's boiled
it down excellently, the walls are closing in, so what are they going to do?
Now the walls are closing in, now that we know there's a war on America, a war on sovereignty,
the New York Times has gone from saying globalism doesn't exist, Ron Paul's insane, Trump's
insane, Jones is insane, Drudge is insane, to okay, there's a fox in the globalist henhouse
in Davos, and our world government's falling apart, and now the Indian president just joined
Trump saying globalism's done, that clip's coming up, and now more and more governments
are saying we're not handing our power over to you anymore, this is the collapse of the
New World Order, doesn't mean some utopias on the other side, doesn't mean everything's
going to be perfect, but the arrogance of the mega corporations who thought they would
create private corporate governments that are authoritarian, transfer all our power
to them, and exempt themselves from all the regulations and taxes that they foist on us,
this is the beginning of the world awakening to that fraud, and the fortunes of Google,
Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, especially Apple, all of it is based on this rigged system,
set up by the globalist, by the Rockefellers, and really expressed by the Clintons through
George W. through Obama, and it has destroyed the nation state, it has destroyed wealth,
it has savage societies, and now, in office only 340 days, no, 370 days, 370 days, only
in office 370 days, President Trump is in Davos, just as we told you he was going to
do, going in and saying, you're going to listen to me or leave, you're lucky I'm here, I'm
here to talk about a future for your companies, not screwing people over, and all of a sudden
they're all saying, we like Trump, we like what he's done the last year, he's right,
we all got even richer, but see, they don't want to just get richer, they want to run
it and control it all, so suddenly Lloyd Blank fine and Bezos, and all of them are rolling
over and showing their bellies right now, because the United States of America isn't
under their full control, but believe me, they will stab the President in the back as
soon as they can, they'll stab us in the back, it's the nature of these scumbags that would
want to make everybody else poor, an ally with the communist Chinese, so that they could
take control of our world, think about that, allied with the worst authoritarian regimes
in the world, and Trump's already outflanked China with his India move, and his South Korea
move, he's already outflanked the EU with his support of Brexit and everything else,
it's already happening, because their system is authoritarian, tenuous and based on lies,
it will be easy to destroy it and build something much better, because it's parasitic, but first
we've got to beat Hollywood, the mainstream media stay behind networks that are trying
to kick off a civil war in this country, and trying to bully the resistance with all these
fake sex assault charges, we've got to make it through this final minefield.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there, loss of energy, blood
sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these
that can alert you that something is wrong, hear how heart and body extract is making
a difference in thousands of people's lives across America, order your two months supply
today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com, heart and
body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance, become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses, individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families, choose
from 3 health sharing programs, holistic treatment may be eligible for sharing, see guidelines,
discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy, go to libertyoncall.org that's
libertyoncall.org.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family, since 2005 thousands have depended on Berkey purified water, the
Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653 goberkey.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free
press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
At InfowarsLife.com.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose, itchy
watery eyes and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in public trials, in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block.
Available now at InfowarsLife.com or by calling toll free.
Triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
So, the mainstream corporate enemy media has already collapsed.
They're all bankrupt.
Every single one of them from the New York Times, the Washington Post, they're all propped
up by kingpins like Bezos and Carlos Slim to the richest men in the world.
And some of the messages came out from the union negotiation with the Washington Post,
where the employees are having their promise pay increases and things taken away.
And Bezos' representative actually told them, sit down and shut up.
That was in the news yesterday.
You're lucky to even have a job.
You're taking the promises away.
See how that works?
And they don't care.
They're in their lion 24-7, proud to destroy this country as much as they can.
And when they're done and Bezos is won, if he's successful, you'll get rid of all of them
because Bezos is all about using people up and throwing them in the gutter.
There it is.
WAPO staffers fighting for better wages, told to sit down, shut up and be grateful for Bezos.
Yeah, it said that they were getting $8 increases a year.
Now he says they're not going to get pay increases and other people are going to have their pay
cut if you actually go read what it says.
So that headline's not even strong enough.
But again, that's just a side issue.
Under Trump, hundreds of companies have given $1,000 to $5,000 bonuses to even their lowest
level employees.
And the average family's gotten a $13,000 tax decrease.
And the stock market's at $26,000.
And there's millions of new jobs.
And we've got the highest increases in wages ever recorded.
And the lowest black unemployment ever recorded.
But CNN, The Washington Post and everybody, they have endless articles telling you, oh,
well, black unemployment is the lowest ever, but here's what's behind it.
Or wages are up, but here's what's behind it.
It's not Trump, it's Obama.
That's right.
Obama did it all.
Obama got Apple to move back.
Obama called thousands of companies.
No, Trump got the tax cuts.
Trump got the corporate tax cut.
So that's their talking points.
First off, they'll never be prosperity.
You'll never get above 3%.
And then they said, OK, it is going to probably go to 7% or 8%, 9% in the next couple of years.
You're right.
It's about 3.3% right now.
OK.
It's Obama, he did it.
Obama did it.
So there you go, ladies and gentlemen.
And getting back to the memo, and I want to open the phones up, just as this department
makes last ditch effort to block release of FISA memo, Peter Schiff and all the usual
suspects running the fraud at the congressional level, Hamont said, it's a conspiracy theory.
There's nothing there.
Devin Nunes made it up, those are the quotes, that was about two weeks ago, about all these
documents.
Then they said, OK, it's real, but you can't understand it, so we shouldn't release it.
And now they're saying, don't release it, period.
But the Democrats are going to release their own memo.
It's not quotes and texts and documents and secret societies and all this other garbage.
No, no, ladies and gentlemen, it's just their opinion.
Meanwhile, MSNBC, FBI secret society, is a dangerous conspiracy theory, even though
it's FBI agents telling Congress this and text messages, talking about secret meetings
and insurance policies, all that's confirmed.
But don't worry, it's a conspiracy theory.
And then let's have an old neocon on there to tell everybody that everything is actually
OK.
So just department makes last ditch effort to block release of the FISA memo.
That's up on infowars.com.
And here's the big one, Comey Rosenstein McCabe, all named in FISA memo, according to First
Leak.
Now again, that's the first leak being reported by the Daily Beast, because mainstream media
is giving that attention saying it's the first leak.
You know, we've gotten leaks.
Jack Pasobak's gotten leaks.
Roger Stone has talked to four members of Congress, some of them that you see on television.
And as of last night, he still wasn't ready to say what they told him, and he asked me
not to say yet.
But he does just tell me all this incredible stuff, just so I know how good his sources
are.
And then 99% of the time, we wait too long and we get scooped.
That didn't really happen in this Daily Beast.
It's just reporting what we've always known.
Much of what Nunez talks about when he says the secret FISA court memo is the FISA court
99 page memo that gives you the dates of when they were spying, the FISA court saying this
is illegal over and over again.
So the Daily Beast spends it, Devin Nunez's anti FBI memo named James Comey, Rod Rosenstein
and Andrew McCabe.
Because they're the ones involved back before Trump was even in office during the campaign.
And when he was president-elect, they're the ones running the FISA operation.
They're the ones taking the Fusion GPS baloney package in.
They're the ones.
That's why that document's important is because it shows the blueprint.
And yes, there's secret parts we haven't released that are the blocked out parts, but they play
semantical games.
Just like the talking point is, Devin Nunez has nothing.
There is nothing.
He made it up.
Alex Jones made it all up.
It's all fake.
It's all fake.
Hillary won.
She's Madam President.
Like, where is my Madam President?
I guess they've hung it back on the wall by my office.
This is how they play these games.
Oh, and of course, I'm sure we all believe this, CBS News.
Those of FBI issued phones had a glitch that failed to save text.
Total made up crap.
That particular Samsung Galaxy phone hardcodes the text.
Oh, but they're saying that's what glitched, but you still have to manually erase them.
And everybody knows that.
So oh my goodness, the FBI says we wouldn't do that.
And again, the New York Times said 99% chance Hillary was going to win, Madam President.
So they never engage in fake news.
No, they only tell us the truth.
Again, did Nunez invent his own smoking gun?
That's the talking point when we have the smoking guns.
We have the fraudulent warrants they got, which the court says in the memo, you guys
aren't following the law doing this until the president orders them to do it.
And that's what's blacked out.
And that's what Daily Beast isn't telling you is Barack Obama's name is in these documents.
POTUS, president of the United States.
And that's what no one is supposed to ever say.
They have the talking point now for over a year and a half that President Obama has never
been involved in any political action against Trump.
President Obama has never been involved with the FISA court against anybody who's a U.S.
citizen.
President Obama is above reproach.
And what did Nunez and what did all the other congressional Republicans that have the courage
to tell the truth tell you is going to happen, what did Congress from Gates say?
They've all said what's in the memo exposes Obama running it and will destroy his legacy
as Mr. Goodie Two Shoes.
Mr. Goodie Two Shoes, he persecuted the press.
He persecuted whistleblowers like no one we've ever seen.
So that's what's really in the memo is that Obama ran this and used illegal fake info
to get a fake warrant to surveil his political enemies.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant but not fearful, faketv.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, let me speak for hours just on the files I
have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this, this is the ultimate
immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year, but immune wall is incredible
and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here, the mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate, a citrus peel blend, I mean this is the next level.
It's now available ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think is beyond seasonal, beta-glucan,
olive leaf, and more, immune wall, infowarstore.com, infowarslime.com, or triple A, 2533139.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long.
Go ahead.
Yeah, I just have to say something, man.
It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging.
It just gets old, man.
I'm going to shut you down right now, okay?
We're taking calls about your nomination.
Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
I mean, what's it going to take us being shut down?
Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what, Alex?
I put him on pause again.
Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're
under attack, we need your help.
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank.
I need your help, Frank.
Go to infowarstore.com right now and help fund the info.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank.
Free press needs your help, Frank.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show because there is a war on for your mind.
Folks, we have a ton of economic news, political news, a ton of tectonic news dealing with
volcanoes and earthquakes massively increasing, especially on the US East Coast with top seismologists
believing that the really big one could hit any day.
We've already seen 8.2s off the coast of Alaska.
We've already seen Mount St. Helens coming back to life like it hasn't done since it
erupted in the early 1980s.
So we're going to be looking at all of that as well.
But I want to open the phones up on this Thursday edition to take a ton of your calls specifically
on the secret Nunez memo that, again, he talks about the four pages in the memo that is from
the classified FISA court memo.
Those we've been told by high-level sources, including the former head of operations of
the NSA, is the blacked out portions that are in that document.
And the media uses this distraction process to say this is not the secret part Nunez has.
We made that clear.
This is the document that's been hiding in plain view that no one's covered that shows
the illegal surveillance and the FISA court at least twice coming to Obama and saying,
this is illegal.
What are you doing?
And it's got the names blacked out of Comey, of McCabe, of Loretta Lynch, of all the usual
suspects.
And that's what members of Congress have said.
They've said this is going to embarrass Obama big time.
This is going to hurt his legacy as Mr. Goody-Tushes.
He's not Mr. Goody-Tushes.
Incredible persecutor of the press and whistleblowers and you name it.
So now after they said, oh, there is no memo, now Peter Schiff and now the Democrats and
now the operatives in the Justice Department have changed their tune and they say, we do
not want this released.
Justice Department makes the last ditch effort to block release of FISA memo saying it will
damage national security.
And of course, there's other information, tons of other information.
We get so focused on this memo, you've got thousands and thousands of texts that members
of those committees, the intelligence committees, the armed services committees, the judicial
committees are able to see and it is a love fest.
They've already released.
We're meeting in secret.
We're creating insurance policies.
We hate this guy.
We can't let him get an office.
You got to meet with McCabe and all that's been confirmed.
And now more and more and more and more comes out and oh, now 50,000 texts or whatever have
come up missing and oh, it's just a glitch in the phone.
This is a giant cabal inside our government that covered for the crimes of the Clintons,
that covered for the crimes of Obama, that covered for the crimes of the people around
Bush.
It's all the same group.
They all vacation together.
This is the good old boy secret society that Trump isn't part of.
He's not part of that good old boy group.
And they now understand that that whole thing is being destroyed.
So they're now in a very, very dangerous position.
They're in a dangerous position and they're willing to do anything right now to try to
stop Trump, try to stop the reassurgence of Americanism, showing that we had artificial
economic restraints on us to hold us down, that within one year we've already seen dramatic
improvement.
They're being destroyed by prosperity.
Just like I said on inauguration day, I said Trump must deliver.
His name is bound to our success.
His dynasty is bound to us, even if he was a sociopath.
If he wants true historical victory and power, he would be the man to turn America around
and to lead other countries out of globalist bondage and it's happening.
Macron says the EU is on the verge of collapse if there was a referendum today, it would
fall.
Well, most nations never had a referendum to enter the EU.
They were brought in just like NAFTA and GATT, just like WTO, just like the TPP, the Transpacific
Partnership, into these global trade combines that are binding world governance in their
own words.
And the Indian leader, who's been a guy working with Trump, he's playing both sides, saying
I like globalism, I want to work with a globalist, but you know, it's losing its luster.
Trump is right.
Well, globalism is the globalist system of world technotronic, technocracy government.
Global and global connections is just part of the next development of the human species.
They just want to package the inevitability of the move into that world system to make
it undemocratic and command and control from the beginning.
So this is a huge time to be alive.
I want to give you the toll-free number to join us to talk specifically about Davos,
what's happening there with Trump, what you think is going to come out in the memo, when
you think it's going to come out.
I was told that they are looking to release the secret portions of the memo and their
report Monday or Tuesday of next week.
But because it looks like the Justice Department is so rogue and that Trump doesn't control
but only maybe the first layer that they may trust him in junctions or something or some
type of congressional battle to block it, and the Democrats are rushing to put out their
own fake memo that they admits just hyperbole and opinion.
And so they may release it tonight or tomorrow.
I've been talking to a lot of people that are talking to these congressmen and some
of them women, and I'm just going to leave it at that, you know, we probably should just
get Roger Stone on Dan Lyman from Switzerland and FullWars.com reporters on at the middle
of the next hour.
We should probably just shoot to get Roger on the start of the next hour if he can.
Or when Tyler Nixon's in studio or one of our legal analyst, Roger, can come on at 1.30,
because I want to see if he'll go ahead and talk about what his source has told him.
Because I understand why he doesn't want all of this out now because they don't want it
out now.
You know, I really don't want to sit here and sit on top of this while the mainstream
media tries to spin all of this.
So we'll see what unfolds.
I mean, some headlines say it's going to come out in the next two weeks.
It's all up in the air right now, but more and more it's looking like early next week.
And again, why is it so important?
It exposes the shadow government.
It exposes the deep state.
It exposes the cabals.
The secret societies that we know are the bane of any successful culture.
That's right, Sarah Carter is saying it could be released this week.
So we're going to continue to look at every angle of this, but this is a journey about
us restoring our republic, rediscovering our own system and taking control of our own destiny.
What's the process happening here?
And it's the process of breaking the unconstitutional covert ties where global government is codified
in legislative edict to be authoritarian, to be secret, and to be anti-human.
And when you realize that, you realize that the quandary that decent people have that
people, I don't want to run things and things aren't perfect and boy, things are a mess,
they're trying to make it worse.
They're trying to consolidate power.
They're trying to make you poor.
They're trying to poison you culturally and physically and spiritually.
They're very, very nasty people that want a population of dumbed down serfs they can
feed on.
And so we have a job to remove them because we know they're a clear and present danger.
We know they're bad.
By the way, I'm very excited that the listeners are excited about bodies, our newest nutraceutical
supplement, which for my research is the ultimate turmeric concentrate blend because it has
a bunch of other known super antioxidants, the turbo charge that studies show accelerates
its upload.
It's a big 60-day supply of some of the best turmeric out there in the world.
If you don't know what turmeric can do for you, just go look at the studies here.
Big brother and folks don't want us to obviously be able to even tell you or get into all that,
but turmeric is something that every man, woman, and child should be taking every single
day and the other compounds in bodies only make it stronger.
Infowarsstore.com, $50 or 50% off, that's not even $50, off out of the gates, 50% off
and it's $50 off on the Alexa Pure Breeze air filtration systems and that's going to
end in the next few days as well.
Climb to the top of the food chain with Alpha Power by Infowars Life.
For those who want to increase testosterone and energy levels, most men know that testosterone
levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of about 1-2% per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss.
Alpha Power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Watch your alpha male potential with Alpha Power, get Alpha Power now at 50% off and
secure your bottle today.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well for starters, don't just sit there and take it, fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called Black Pepper Fruit Extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include Vitamin B12 and Neurological Tonic and Cognitive Enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal, Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
Infowars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge
your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Our super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com.
That's InfowarsStore.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion, visit InfowarsLife.com to secure your chemister.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at InfowarsLife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InfowarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, Super Male Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're finding the tip of
the spear in the Infowars.
That's InfowarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center and the heart of the Resistance.
I'm Alex Jones, your host, thank you for joining us, two little corrections here.
I should probably give the phone number out so people can call in when I said the phones
were open 20 minutes ago, 877-789-ALAX, 877-789-2539 is the number to call in specifically on
the secret memo, why the Democrats are so scared.
The Congress folks that have told us that it will really expose Obama, it's a very
sinister individual, how long is it going to take till they bring this out?
Because I'm really worried that the cornered rats, as the walls are closing in, as Sean
Hannity said last night, are going to really get even more aggressive.
And you see Hollywood and the media saying kill the President, kill his supporters, attack
his supporters, burn things down, bring down the government, shut down the government,
they are really upset, this cabal, that it hijacked the nation.
And they really thought we would accept the evil political corpse of Hillary Clinton running
our lives.
But everything they touch turns to absolute failure.
877-789-ALAX.
And the other correction, I don't have a teleprompter in here and I go from memory and I know it's
Adam Schiff is the leader of the Democratic leader in the House of the Judiciary Committee
and his counterpart is Nunez, the chairman, and he is going after the truth and first
saying it isn't real and then saying it is real, don't release it, you're too stupid
to understand it.
So I'm going in Peter Schiff who is a great economist and researcher and was on with us
last week or maybe it was Monday, so it's Adam Schiff, not Peter Schiff, so thanks
for the crew pointing that out.
Someday I guess I'm going to have to get like all the other talk shows and have my notes
and just follow them, but I just go literally from a memory and research and we are getting
this graphic posted on info wars.com as we speak and we are going to tweet it at real
Alex Jones, it's hard to find on the epoch time website, it is their map of the insurance
policy and the Clinton slash Obama secret society that had basically hijacked the government.
So that is going to be coming up in the next hour as well.
The toll free number again is 877-789 Alex and I don't normally screen your calls, it's
a free for all, but we are screening them in that I want to specifically talk about
this topic and or Trump in Davos because we were told he was going to screw us on DACA,
didn't do it, but people that I know they're conservatives are still mad at him because
they decided that that was happening and they won't admit they got conned by neocon media.
That's the same thing here, he's going there to try to recruit companies back to the US,
he's going there as a nationalist to cut unilateral deals to help the United States but also help
the companies and or countries they're from so it's a two way street so you build up both
economies.
How do I know that?
Trump told us his philosophy, he's been following through and he is as constant as the North
Star and so I told you a week ago what he did with Davos, now it's already happened today.
I'm here to cheerlead for America, I'm here to talk about nation states and how we need
to control our own governments and have our people in charge and the value of human workers
and not replacing them with robots and I'm here to talk about how this global order is
unelected in the authoritarian and if you don't like it get out of the room, I've got the
quotes here.
They said you want a bitch, you want to complain as a CEO, you want to act like you're going
to protest me being here, you're lucky I'm here and if you don't like it get out, if
you don't like it don't go hear me when I speak, leave the room like everybody else
does, you want to hear this speaker, that speaker, fine, leave the room.
It's called free speech, I'm the head of the United States, I'm coming, I'm speaking to
you.
Dramatic HD footage from Dan Lyman, our reporter who's doing an amazing job writing articles,
writing reports and also joining us live, Chow and Davos, those who don't want to listen
to Trump can leave, yes that's his spokesperson that's there with him, as I just told you
that is what the president said and boy they've desperately tried to get, oh the Muslim Union
that they put the Islamist mayor in London, they voted to say Trump's not welcome in England.
Just think about the mindset and how these people are operating but I want to get to
some of these clips real fast because they're so important because it signifies something
earth shattering, earth shaking, it'll change the world if you grasp it, if I grasp it,
if we all continue to grasp it, as I've been saying for at least 15 years, globalism's
criminal, it's unelected, it's authoritarian, it's anti-human, it's exempt from taxes and
regulations and it operates by stealth and if we just have a public debate about it,
keep exposing the IMF, the World Bank, the WTO, the TPP, all these groups that they're
unelected transferring power to world government corporations and that they're giving us a
bad deal as well, the nation states will turn against it and we will remove ourselves from
this system before it ever gets off the ground.
I said it's when they finally admit it's a global government and try to set up the
world currency and the world tax and the world control and they try to lower the borders
completely that the world will turn against them.
That's common sense and so I hammered it and I hammered it with you the listeners and many
other great people that understood history like the New American magazine and like Ron
Paul and others knowing that we were making inroads with the public mind worldwide and
that when they announced the world government, people would go, wait a minute, I've seen
Nightline, I've seen Dateline, I've seen CBS, I've seen CNN, I've seen CNBC, I've seen
the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, for 30 years say there's no world government,
there's no global cabal, for 50 years the CFR isn't taking your sovereignty for 40 years.
The Trilateral Commission is secret but don't worry about it.
And we hammered it and hammered it and if you talked about it, you got black bald, you
got kicked off talk radio, you got publishers will shut you down but now the fact that Bilderberg
and all these things are the very same couple hundred billionaires who meet at Davos and
meet at Bilderberg and meet at these events and their people are in key positions everywhere
and they're setting up a system of total control and if we just kept hammering it, the truth
would come out, they'd have to debate us face to face about their authoritarian activities
and they would lose.
We have now reached the point where they're having to debate us and going, listen, we need
globalism, we need world government.
We don't want a fractured world, well it's not fractured when we just simply don't let
you screw us over and you exploit the workers and you lower wages and so their authoritarian
nightmare is coming to an amazing crashing confrontation.
They're not defeated yet but the very nature of a world transnational secret tax exempt
group with diplomatic immunity running everything, they're never going to sell that and they're
going to use third world populations in reverse colonialism to come in and drive down wages
and be brainwashed into neo-leftist, anti-western, anti-European racist and now the left in
major publications like The Economist says, we miscalculated demographics, we've got to
get even more non-whites in and we'll defeat the West.
And it's not really defeat the white thing, it's defeat nation states that can stand up
for itself that had wealth that were first world that aren't a big third world population,
you can dictate the terms of surrender to.
They want us poor neo-futalistic fascism and I've had top economists on, you name it and
they go, that's the best term I ever heard, that's exactly what it is, that is what it
is.
Yes, I've coined many of the terms today that are now used in the fight against the enemy,
not because I'm that smart, it's neo-futalistic fascism, using socialism at the grassroots
level of control.
I didn't get to those clips, I'm going to come back, start going to calls, then I'm
going to get to all the clips, Lou Dobbs says, we must declare war on the deep state, Sean
Hannity gets it right, he says the walls are closing in on the globalist, on the secret
societies, they're panicking, this is so important because the fact that everything we talk about
is being mainlined now means they can never, no amount of censorship, no amount will ever
put the genie back in the bottle.
We have passed an incredible point of no return, an amazing milestone that is historical and
that is incredible and that we should all hit our knees and thank God for the providence
that's taking place and then be a little positive about you.
I was brushing my teeth this morning, I just thought I got to get on air and thank the
listeners and viewers, I mean not just thanking them because they're great patriots and fighting
hard but man, you are the heart, you are the blood, you are the core, you are the spark,
you are, you are it, you are the very most engaged point blank patriots in the world,
you are the reason we're here.
Use your potential and take your body back with super male vitality, we're breaking the
conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body, grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
Proper B-vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, up,
up, up, up, optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B-vitamins we need
every day, up, up, up, up, optimum levels, B-vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B-12 for optimal absorption, up, up,
up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B-vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B-vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B-vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system,
up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B-12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
All right folks, we are into the second hour.
I'm going to start going to your phone calls right now.
The article has gone live on newswars.com and infowars.com.
Real collusion, graphic illustrates Dem's ties to phony Russian dossier and how they
formed their own secret society.
Obama deep state behind secret Trump coup attempt, Mueller witch hunt.
It's the most amazing graphic of many graphics we've seen.
They're excellent, exposing the insurance policy and it's all in their own words, their
own admissions, how they have Trump and the American people in a pincer attack between
Obama when he was still in office, Hillary, the Democratic Party, Republican allies, the
corporate media and so much more.
So this powerful graphic is on infowars.com right now.
It's very important to tweak that out.
It's very important to basically let people know this is what the Nunez secret FISA four
pages out of the original FISA investigation.
We're going to put out a 99 page memo that says we were told to do illegal things.
The court did.
And that's the memo that the media goes, all that memo is already out, Jones.
Nobody look at that.
By the way, you can't look at WikiLeaks if you're not seeing in.
If you do, you're going to jail.
Como said that.
Well, now they just go, listen, don't look at any of that.
Look, those text messages you're hearing, that's fake.
There was no meeting with McCabe.
Now they go, okay, they're real text messages.
We met with McCabe and all the others got erased.
They're caught red handed folks and they're trying different distraction games with people,
but it's not working.
So I'm asking the questions of listeners.
What's going to happen as these cornered rats begin to realize that nothing they've done
has worked, nothing they've done has gotten them out of the trouble they're in.
So I'm going to go to break and come right back, go to Brendan, Mark, John, Candace,
Josh, Jason, and many, many others on the other side of this short segment.
And then I'm going to read the article because it's excellent article and show some of the
documents and tweets that are embedded in it from zero hedge.com that's on info wars.com.
According to first leak, and again, this really isn't the first leak, they're daily beast
is saying they have the first leak.
Everything you've been seeing with text messages that Congress is putting out are leaks.
Everything that Jim Jordan's been saying a week before and the next week it comes out
is a leak.
He's got him testifying in front of him going, I kind of feel like this might have been what
happened.
And then they won't answer his questions, Ron Rosenstein or McCabe or any of them because
they know they've got all the classified garbage of what they've done.
So if you know how to read between the lines, you know what's in there.
It's a bombshell four page memo.
The first started making waves last week and a half after it was made available for the
full House representatives for viewing.
That's the full memo with over 60 GOP lawmakers calling for its release.
The Hill sources on both sides of the aisle tell the daily beast that it's only a matter
of time before the general public is allowed to view the document.
Oh, thank you, daily beast.
That's like telling me the sun came up this morning, which is likely to stoke already
inflamed tensions between GOP lawmakers and the individuals named in the league.
And then it gets into what's in there.
McCabe, Comey, Rosenstein.
We already know through the Clinton cabal.
It's Rosenstein told Trump, hey, let's get McCabe.
He really likes you.
He's the guy that was running the cabal for Comey and Mueller.
He's the stay behind network.
They're like, oh, sir, he's against what happened.
He's your man.
All right, Mr. McCabe, you're the head of the FBI, just get confirmed by the Congress.
You're my nominee.
Mr. President, they've really screwed you over.
Just turn around for me so I can pull this dagger out and stab you in the back immediately.
Yeah.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com.
But instead of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced
personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works.
And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and
the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there.
And it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com, what I can do for your family.
And again, I want to thank you all for your support, you are funding the Information
War in 2018.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
All right, we're going to your phone calls right now.
We're talking about the secret FISA memo that is secret excerpted parts out of reportedly
multiple memos and the proof that Obama was directing illegal spying against the Trump
campaign, president-elect, and right up until the time that the president was sworn in.
And we saw incredible hubris by Brennan, by Clapper, by Schumer, and others saying, oh,
the intelligence agencies are going to get you.
You're never going to make it into office, or you're going to be out very, very soon.
And they've been all over TV saying, we're going to remove him in the next few months
outside of impeachment, and Wolf Blitzer says to Brennan and to Clapper, well, how?
And they go, oh, extrajudicial.
And then Phil Mudd goes on air two days later and says, the government's going to kill this
guy, President Trump.
And then, of course, he saw Scalise shot in the attempt to take out the Republican Freedom
Caucus leadership.
So these guys aren't playing around.
And I told you back when all that happened last year, this is the stay behind networks
at the FBI, at the CIA, at the NSA, at the Justice Department, and other agencies.
They were saying this in the Washington Post, New York Times, hold on, he'll be gone in
a few months.
Don't follow orders.
It's your duty to be mutinous, sabotage.
I mean, they were in the news.
And so they got more shrill saying, we're going to kill you.
You're going to be out by November.
You're going to be out by December because they knew their stay behind networks were
on burner phones by then.
They were meeting secretly already for six, seven, eight months.
Once the president had gotten into office, they were scared.
They were being watched now.
Oh, yes.
And so they had to send McCabe out to go, that piece of crap will be gone in a few weeks.
We're going to kill him.
And have him all go on TV and say, he's dead.
He'll be gone.
I told you that was desperate, desperate disinfo to get their criminals to continue to man
the post.
And we now have the emails.
We now have the text messages as Congress has them, they're going to release them.
These five congressmen, every time they say they've got this, they release it a week later.
And now they're saying, we've got FBI agents that blew the whistle to us.
Of course, that probably happened a year ago or more.
We've got all the documents.
We've got all the emails.
We've got everything that this whole house of cards is coming down that they're scared,
that they're using burner phones, that they're hiding out.
You don't think Congress wanted to bring all this out if they didn't have to, right?
You think they wanted to really damage the FBI this much?
You think they really wanted to bring it to this point?
You think Trump wanted that?
This isn't good for the stock market.
It's not good for the economy.
It's good.
It'd be good if Hillary goes to prison.
Some people need to go to prison, but this is going to be huge now because they pushed
it all the way.
And so now they're just watching the Democrats continue to perjure themselves, and they brought
in McCabe, and they brought in Comey, and they brought in all these people, and they
all perjured themselves, and they've got them all dead to rights.
And the congressman would look right at Rosenstein, who wouldn't answer questions, but he perjured
himself, and say, I kind of feel like this is how it happened, and then of course, it's
exactly how it happened.
I kind of feel like Rosenstein, this is how it might have happened, and Rosenstein sat
there and squirmed around in his chair and wouldn't answer anything but with bizarre
sideways activities, talking out of both sides of his mouth because they don't know what
to do.
And the $4 trillion question is also your answer.
Program A was to stop the nomination and then steal the election or stop the president
from being seated.
Program B was the whole fake Russiagate and try to get some dirt.
That didn't work.
So now plan C is obstruction, and then that kind of moves on into 25th Amendment, you're
a lunatic, but that's gone nowhere.
So plan D is kill the president, which they've already been kind of trying to get to happen
behind the scenes and trying to kill the congressman to send a message, and I mean, I'll give
it to them.
There's some really evil people.
They've already done a lot.
I'm surprised they're walking around right now.
I'll tell you, if I was the president, I guess I'd do what he's done.
He's given them a long game, letting them hang themselves, but it's dangerous because
you know they got people in the White House.
You know they got people in the Secret Service.
So folks should be praying for the president.
This is beyond a thriller, beyond a movie, beyond anything.
This is sudden death over time for this country right now with these people, because let me
tell you, if they're able to kill the president or able to get him out of there, they have
said they're going out for everybody.
And that's going to cause a civil war right there.
I mean, they've had their butts handed to them on every crime they've committed, every
dirty trick they've played, every scam they've run, every fraud they've engaged in, everything
they've pulled so far has blown up.
So I'll ask you again, what are they going to pull now?
Because now they're cornered like a bank robber that the cops run in, so he grabs the kid
and says, I got an hostage, I'll blow his head off, I'll blow his head off, and that's
Comey, and that's Mueller, and that's all of them, and oh, and then there's this, I forgot
this, guys, get the audio.
I didn't see her on the list, it's CNN's got it, it's all over, it's audio, Trump says
he will go under oath with Comey.
He says, oh, I'll love to meet with him the next two to three weeks, and I love to go
under oath, but you know Hillary didn't go under oath when she met with Comey, no, no,
Comey already gave her a letter absolving her, saying you're not under criminal investigation,
but we're going to go to the media and say you are in the next six months, but it's
all fake, and you're going to get to meet with Strock and everybody, and it's not a
real investigation.
She wasn't under oath, and Tar Mac meetings with Bill Clinton, the Attorney General on
and on and on, so Trump says, oh, I'll meet with him, and I'll go under oath, and I've
said this a hundred times, Mr. President, the only way this is going to work, and you're
all literally, he's always a couple of steps ahead of me, so I'm guessing this is what
he's going to do.
Have live cameras in there, bring that Mularin, that arrogant SOB, and set down that monster
in front of you and say, all right, you got five minutes, buddy boy, and then I'm going
to do the talking, and then lay into him with his whole history in uranium one and the criminal
activity and McCabe and everything, and it will be the giant nail in their fraud you've
ever seen in your life.
It will be beyond devastating, and I said that a week ago, and a little bird told me
that Trump is intending to just say, come on in, it's under oath, and he's going to
sit right there with Mular in the ultimate stair down.
I should have led the show with this, there's just so much news.
The ultimate showdown, and then he's going to chew him out and say, in case you don't
know, former director, this person, this person, this email, this document, what do you say
about that?
What do you say about Hillary meeting the secret?
What do you say about all that?
What do you say about not being under oath?
What do you say about, you guys saying you weren't surveilling us, but you were?
Because when Mular sits down in front of the president the next three weeks, it's after
they've timed all this out with the freedom caucus.
When he, I'll be surprised if Mular even goes, because you talk about walking into the Dragon's
Den, the Lion's Den, I mean, you are walking in there, buddy, here's the president.
I'm looking forward to it, actually.
You have a date set?
Here's the story, just so you understand, there's been no collusion whatsoever, there's
no obstruction whatsoever, and I'm looking forward to it.
I do worry when I look at all of the things that you people don't report about with what's
happening, if you take a look at the five months worth of missing texts, that's a lot
of missing texts, and as I said yesterday, that's prime time.
So you just sort of look at that and say what's going on.
You do look at certain texts where they talk about insurance policies or insurance, where
they say the kinds of things they're saying, you gotta be concerned, but I would love to
do that, and I'd like to do it as soon as possible.
What will you do, Mr. President?
Do you have a date set?
Do you have a date set?
So here's the story.
Do you have a date set?
Do you have a date set?
I don't know, I guess they're talking about two or three weeks, but I would love to do
it.
And of course, you know, again, I have to say, subject to my lawyers and all of that, but
I would love to do it.
Do you do it under oath, Mr. President?
We'll be right back, and I'm going to your call, but then he finishes up, he says,
oh yeah, I'll go under oath, but, but, but Hillary didn't.
Here's a special message for those of you who owe the IRS at least 10,000 or more in
back taxes.
The IRS has special programs in place that could eliminate or reduce your tax debt by
thousands of dollars.
Call the federal tax management helpline that has been set up for you, 800-503-8625.
Stop the wage garnishments, levies, and tax liens now.
Once you've qualified and enrolled, the IRS will stop all the collection activities
against you.
Those unique programs have been allocated to help the economy and significantly reduce
or eliminate your tax burden.
The IRS is currently accepting reduced settlements and other favorable programs.
You may qualify for substantial savings, so get the help you need.
If you owe more than 10,000 in taxes, call for free information and to see if you qualify.
Write down the number now for the federal tax management hotline, 800-503-8625.
That's 800-503-8625.
Non-attorney paid spokesperson.
Could your house go into foreclosure?
Are you behind on your mortgage payments?
Does it seem like the bank has no interest in helping you save your home and you feel
like you have nowhere to turn for help?
Then we have good news for you.
Foreclosure protection services can help save your home as they specialize in foreclosure
assistance.
That's all they do.
If you're behind on your mortgage payments, being threatened with foreclosure, have been
denied a loan modification or been the victim of a predatory loan, it's critical that you
call foreclosure protection services now at 800-667-9035.
Their network of attorneys and their agents are available to speak to you now.
If you're behind on your mortgage payments, foreclosure protection services can help
stop the foreclosure process.
Call today before it's too late.
New laws are in effect and may save your home.
Call foreclosure protection services now at 800-667-9035, 800-667-9035.
That's 800-667-9035.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
As a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big, normal
toothpaste fans.
The Super Blue is awesome.
Thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more, and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us
healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's bigger problems going on, and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Introducing Cell Force by InfoWars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much
like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing
reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from InfoWars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones, The Cure to Fake News, coming to you live from Austin, Texas.
Let's finish up with the president since I was starting to get into the audio of him
in the Oval Office yesterday.
I'll meet with Mueller and I'll go under oath, unlike Hillary Clinton did, but it was worse
than that.
They told her, you're not under investigation, but we're going to say you are.
We're going to stage it.
You won't be under oath.
That came out.
They gave her a memo saying, you're not under investigation, we're not coming after you.
You're not under oath before she'd do it.
Oh, but Mueller wants him under oath, so imagine if Trump brings him in live video cameras
and says, okay, you asked your questions, and I'm going to ask mine, and then use it
to destroy him, to turn the tables.
Within three weeks when this meeting supposedly is going to come up subject to lawyers, that
gives the president an ounce, it's all going to be out there, the memos, everything, they'll
be lucky if they're not indicted by them.
Let's go ahead and play this clip and then I'm going to your calls.
Mr. President.
You mean like Hillary did and under oath?
Who said that?
I said that.
Did you do it under oath?
Oh, you said it.
You did say a lot.
Did Hillary do it under oath?
I have no idea.
I'm not asking.
I think you have an idea.
Don't you have an idea?
Wait, wait, wait.
Do you not have an idea?
Do you really not have an idea?
I'll give you an idea.
She didn't do it under oath.
I would do it under oath.
But I would do it under oath.
Listen, I would do it, and you know she didn't do it under oath, right?
If you didn't do it under oath, if you didn't know about Hillary, then you're not much
of a reporter.
You're going to do under oath.
Say it.
To reach a higher standard, you would do it under oath.
Oh, I would do it under oath.
Absolutely.
Do you trust the FBI?
Do you trust the FBI?
I'm not going to say.
I mean, I am very disturbed, as is the general, as is everybody else that is intelligent.
When you look at five months, this is the great Rosemary Woods, right, with a step,
right?
This is a large-scale version.
18 minutes.
That was 18 minutes.
This is five months.
They say it's 50,000 texts, and it's prime time.
That's disturbing.
Say hello to each other.
Good bye, everybody.
Should McCabe go?
Well, McCabe got more than $500,000 from, essentially, Hillary Clinton, and is he investigating
Hillary Clinton?
So should he go?
Do you remember?
Did anybody here, many of my speeches where I talked about McCabe, he was the star of
my speech.
This isn't now.
And I said, a man who was more or less in charge of her, the wife's got $500,000 from
Terry.
But Terry is Hillary.
And yeah, I mean...
Do you regret having him as your acting FBI director then?
You know what?
I keep out of it.
You'd find that hard to believe.
I keep out of it.
That's the way it fell.
He's been there.
It's one of those things.
But he was the star of many of my speeches, because he got from $500,000 to $700,000, whatever
the number was.
Got that money for the wife.
And you know, in Virginia, in Virginia, very interesting way, in Virginia, you don't have
to spend the money.
So I never checked as to whether or not they spent the money on the campaign.
How much of the money did he spend on the campaign, you know?
How much was it?
Wait.
How much of the money was spent?
Did you ask who he voted for?
You know.
I know.
How much...
Did you ask McCabe who he voted for?
Did you ask him that?
I don't think so.
No.
You don't think yet?
No, I don't think I did.
You did not.
I don't know what's the big deal with that, because I would ask you who you, who did you
vote for?
I don't think it's a big deal.
But I don't remember that.
You know, I saw that this morning, I don't remember asking him that question.
Is it possible you do?
Is it possible?
I don't remember asking him the question.
You don't remember.
I think it's also a very unimportant question, but I don't remember asking him that.
Now, that's bombshell audio, and imagine what else CNN decided to not give you, okay?
That's what they allowed you to hear.
By the time it was on CNN last night, I was watching Wolf Blitzer, just to tune in for
like 10 minutes, and I go, that sounds edited.
That's why I went and searched out the audio last night, because he was like going, I'll
go under oath.
It's prime time.
You know what?
That doesn't make sense.
They were literally editing stuff.
He says one minute in with another minute to make him sound crazy.
Now, CNN's website at least had a limited edit, three-minute audio chunk we just played.
But see, at every level, they're manipulating, they're lying, and then look at this headline.
They made it, oh, Trump will go under oath.
You know, like he's a criminal, when in the real news there is that the president's pointing
out that McCabe got $500,000 from Hillary, which is on record, and then, of course, he
got the head of the operation at the Justice Department transferring millions of dollars
to his wife at Fusion GPS, I mean, this is crazy.
Okay, enough of that.
I'm going to your calls now.
I just forgotten about that bombshell, and it was very, very important to actually hear
from the president before he got on an airplane and flew to Switzerland, where he's fighting
for U.S. interest right now.
Jason, Black Thumper, Kevin, Dan, Candace, Mitch, John, Mark, Brendan, we need to go to
all your calls here.
I'll probably get to one or two in this little segment, but let's go ahead and go to Black
Thumper calling from Washington.
Go ahead, Black Thumper.
Hey, it's Black Thumper, Alex, great to be on with you.
I just wanted to say that as damning as this memo that's about to come out may be, I really
don't have much faith in Jeff Sessions to actually do something about it.
He's going to sleep at the wheel the entire Trump administration and hasn't done anything.
Hasn't done anything to go after Hillary or any of the major crimes that were committed.
By the way, Black Thumper is kind of a new Disney movie, like Little Black Rabbit, that'd
be cute.
I apologize that the monitor so far away in the bright light look like Thumper.
It is Trumper.
Look, everybody's pointed that out thousands of times about Sessions, and he's got to
be compromised.
Everybody agrees.
Why in the world would he go along with McCabe to be the new FBI director, Rosenstein, this
whole rogue group?
It's clear that he's been intimidated, but who is doing a good job is the Inspector
General of the Justice Department, and that's where the only sunshine's been coming from.
What do you think's going on?
Yeah.
All right, your phone's breaking up.
I appreciate your call.
Let's go ahead and go to Jason in Florida.
Jason, you're on the air.
Welcome.
Hey, Alex.
Love you.
Love you, Joe.
Thank you.
Go ahead.
Hey, I wonder if you saw the latest post by QAnon.
I guess it was two, three days ago.
He said something to the effect that the missing text may have something to do with an assassination
plot.
I've got one more point, too.
I've been in there at 4chan probably the last two, three months, and there's a lot of criticism
of you on there.
Most of the centers around the Israel haters, of course, and I just thought maybe if you
could spend a little more time debunking the Israel runs of the world BS, you might be
able to rope some of these guys in that are on there that's pretty fanatical, and I don't
know if some of them are even that serious about it.
They might just be disinformation.
Yeah.
Look, exactly.
Most of that's bots in sock puppets in Southern Poverty Law Center and ADL people.
I mean, they admit half the folks at one of those clan rallies or whatever, ADL or Southern
Poverty Law Center, or anti-fub sheep dip groups.
I just ignore all that made up stuff.
They're corrupt groups in every society, in every group.
I promote free market capitalism and Western civilization, and that's why the globalists
hate me and use a pincere attack of left-wing and right-wing attacks, but as for your point
about QAnon, our story was on DrudgeReport.com yesterday, actually dealing with the reports
that that is.
Some of what is in the secret text that Congress has that we've not seen, some of these thousands
and thousands of texts that is that plan report, missing FBI text messages include threats
of violence against Trump.
This is Dangerous Territory.
Thank you, Jason.
Great points.
I'm going bam, bam, bam, through your calls on the other side, then live from Switzerland,
Dan Lyman, and much more.
We'll be back.
It's a no-brainer.
A big, burky water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
The original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Burky, and now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Burky or BigBurkyWaterFilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hawaii was a wake-up call.
Don't be caught without a disaster shelter.
Atlas makes an all-disaster shelter that will protect your family from fallout, tornadoes,
and hurricanes for only $99.99. That also includes the NBC air filtration system, solid
steel construction with an airtight, bulletproof door.
That's right for $99.99 and up.
Call 1-855-4-Bunker or go to IWantThatShelter.com, Atlas Survival Shelters, the world leader
in fallout shelters.
Not a group you develop living defense for us, it took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's
harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff you said that there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right, well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarsore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Customers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you're watching on television, you can see our HD footage shot
today on the plateau right beneath the mountain there in Davos, the town of Davos, Switzerland
with their own Dan Lyman shooting Marine One coming in for a landing, the president getting
out, military on the roofs with sniper rifles, Dan Lyman's coming up.
In the next segment, we'll continue with your calls right in to the next hour as well and
I'm going back to your calls as we speak right now.
You can see a very clear, beautiful sunny day there in Davos, a little bit better than
it was with all the global warming, the record snow that I guess just stopped falling yesterday,
but it's gotten nice and sunny for the presidents to arrive and again, am I gloating?
Am I very thankful for Trump?
Yeah, we don't have Hillary Clinton.
The globalists are pulling their hair around.
We're exposing deep state criminal cabals that protected the Clinton crime network.
Yeah, they want to make everybody secretly support the president, you know, those of
us that do, they want to make us secretly do it so they can run around terrorizing everybody
and intimidating everybody.
So the more they attack, the more they bully, the more I support the president.
All right, let's go right back to your phone calls here.
Let's talk to Brendan in New Jersey.
Brendan, thank you so much for calling today.
Hey Alex, how are we going today?
Good, brothers.
Thanks for calling.
Yeah, I just wanted to call and talk about the memo.
The other day when you, I think it was Monday or something, when you had that, when you
leaked the full 99 page memo, I probably took about a good 20, 30 minutes out of my day.
Go ahead and read that.
I only read about halfway through it and now I also heard you report on certain news
networks or certain congressmen are saying that, you know, the public isn't educated
enough to understand what's in the memo.
I don't have high school diploma.
I don't have any type of degree at all.
Reading through that memo, man, are you right dead on?
It definitely doesn't uncover who did what, but definitely uncover some shadiness where
defy the courts are saying, hey, you know, there's certain things you can't be doing
and people are just turning away blind eye and by God, I really hope something comes
out of it because, you know, Trump's doing a wonderful job in office.
You know, you can't, you can't take shots at him where you want, but what he's doing
for the economy, what he's doing for the country itself is incredible, incredible, man.
I just love every second of it.
You know, the, the surgeon coming back in the economy, you can just, you just feel walking
around, you know, you go to a shopping center, it feels like we're coming back to life.
Absolutely.
God bless you and I appreciate your call.
This is just out.
DOJ says the release of the memo would be reckless and dangerous.
They're already saying don't release it this morning.
This is new and they're announcing representative King says memo will be voted on Monday.
What did I say first hour for my sources?
They said it looked like there'd be a vote on Monday.
That's what I got from my congressional source and I've got to get, I've got to get Roger
Stone on today.
He wasn't scheduled today, but he's, he's got a meeting.
I'm trying to get him to cancel to come on and get into the news he has on this front.
But to be specific, we came on and said he's got a compitium of info from secret Pfizer
memo and other things to expose Obama's involvement, McCabe's involvement, the holy legal thing.
And that's not come out in the news.
Then Benny goes, I just got a call.
They're saying the secret parts are the excise parts of this memo, but this is the general
memo and he said, look at page 15, look at page 19, like the caller said by the time
he, you know, got 20 pages in, it's, it's, it's Pfizer court saying, Hey, this is illegal.
What you're doing and you're doing, this is illegal with the warrant doesn't say you can
do this.
And the way you got the warrants bad, that's the point.
It was illegally done.
So we know what's in the memo.
It just further dams them with all the text messages and all the coverups and the secret
society and the insurance policy and everything.
So what do they do?
They go noon as doesn't have anything.
That was Monday.
Then on Tuesday, Adam shift goes, okay, but it's too complex for you to understand it.
And now on Wednesday, they say, don't release it on Thursday.
It's, it's damaging.
It's deadly.
It's horrible.
No, no, no.
Don't, don't release it.
Whatever you do.
No, no, no.
And that's what I was told from my sources and I'm talking Fox news sources.
I'm talking congressional sources.
They've been told Monday, probably that's what I said at the start of the show today.
So there you go.
And there's an article just came out.
Who is that out from?
That's out of that.
I WB.
Okay.
So we'll look at those statements and, and, and that video report and check into that.
That's the same information that we're getting and it's open and shut folks because they
testified before Congress, the opposite of what is in the memo and what is in the excise
memo and the, and the declassified portion is 90% of it or more, but 90% of the non blacked
out area says it was basically illegal.
So the FISA court was saying what Obama did for Hillary was illegal.
That's pretty bombshell.
I mean that's in this memo.
They go, Oh, that's not in Alex or that's not the secret part.
Everybody don't look at that.
He's fake news and half the right-winger libertarian media jumped on board because it's fun.
You know, Oh, Alex must be our competition.
Let's tear him down.
Let's say he's full of crap and William Bennett, he just ran the NSA.
He's like the top whistleblower ever screw him.
He just got swat teamed over at all.
You don't, he doesn't know anything.
Okay.
Whatever floats the boat.
All I know is that's what Benny got told and he meets with Pompeo at the CIA.
I'm going to stop right there.
We're told that that's where the pieces come from in this memo.
He says that is the secret FISA memo.
Well that's the big report that's got the whole file of what Obama did to Trump in it.
So the excise black parts are the part that's in it.
But again, they do this Jedi mind trick.
Oh, that's been out for a while.
Just shut up, Jones.
Okay.
Fine.
Watch and see what comes out in the memo.
And then Nunes is going to have a glossary reportedly.
Like I said a few days ago, we were told by congressional sources, they got it ready.
This is what they put out to Congress to show folks what's going on.
And now they've given the Democrats time to produce a new memo that they're going to counter
this one with.
But this is going to be documents and snapshots.
And then this person did this and that person did that and they control this person with
their own admissions and then them perjuring themselves before Congress.
But I mean, I tell you, I've noticed the bigger the news, the more it isn't a big deal.
If I put some room around, it'd be the top story.
But if I've got bonafide document that admits they illegally surveilled Trump during the
campaign and when he was president-elect, no one even talks about it or cares.
And it's the memo.
Who's up next here?
I love taking these calls.
Let's talk to Josh and Colorado Springs where the Defense Department shadow government's
located.
Go ahead, Josh.
Thanks for taking my call, Alex.
This memo stuff sounds like something out of a Marvel Comics Hydra.
You know?
It does.
But anyways, these people seem to be backed into a corner.
They're running out of room.
People are paying attention.
I think they're going to use some sort of secret technology.
I think they're going to try and do a magician.
They're going to distract everybody with one hand.
Well, it was a Secretary of Defense, Cohen, that said in 1997 in April to Army Times and
a press conference that governments have tectonic weapons.
I mean, what do you think they might set off on an earthquake or something?
I'm thinking possibly more lines, maybe like a Tesla directed energy or maybe a bio weapon,
something where they could use their eugenics control population.
I mean, these people are dead.
They use the anthrax scare to cover up the criminal involvement in 9-11.
You're absolutely right.
In fact, I think you're right.
A biological false flag would be a great way to keep the deep state in place.
Yeah, and think about what Kim Jong-un just used to kill a stepbrother, that chemical
act, that stuff was designed by us.
So who knows what they could use.
We've made both of the stuff.
Josh, do you have more to add?
No, that's all.
Thank you, sir.
God bless you.
That's amazing.
We'll go take you to Switzerland and straight ahead.
Introducing FloraLife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
FloraLife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
FloraLife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining, and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
FloraLife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of FloraLife probiotics today.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long.
Go ahead.
Well, I just have to say something, man, it seems like every time I turn on your broadcast,
you're bragging.
It just gets old, man.
I'm going to shut you down right now, okay?
We're taking calls about your nomination.
Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
I mean, what's it going to take?
Us being shut down?
Is that what you want, Frank?
Yeah, you know what, Alex?
I put him on pause again.
Hey, Frank!
Do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're under attack,
we need your help?
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank!
I need your help, Frank!
Go to InfoWarsLife.com right now and help fund the InfoWars.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank!
Free press needs your help, Frank!
I'm so excited.
The new product at InfoWarsLife.com, in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers, non-GMO, made
right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase of the operation.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours, this is on the
files I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year, but
the immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate a citrus peel blend, I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think is beyond seasonal.
Click, look, and olive leaf and more, immune wall, M4WareStore.com, M4WareLive.com or triple
eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones, back live, coming to you from the ATX, Austin, Texas.
On screen, you see a Fox News camera inside the World Economic Forum as President Trump
meets with world business leaders, and we've got the HD footage of your TV viewer that Dan
Lyman shot earlier today as President Trump with three Marine-1 helicopters, Blackhawks,
arrived there in Davos to put in another 18-hour workday.
Works about 15 hours a day when he's regularly back in the U.S. 18 hours a day, according
to sources.
And just as I have been telling you, the four-page memo is only redacted parts of the FISA memo,
and I'm told there could be several as well, but that part of the memo we have is the part
that's in there.
And we've talked to Congressman, and Matt, one of the producers said, oh, yeah, Congressman
Gates of Florida was on CNN today with Como and said, listen, it's not just the four-page
stuff out of the FISA memo.
That's what's damning because it shows Clinton running it with Obama.
It's all the supporting documentation we're going to put out, and that's what I've been
saying since last week, is that it's not just a four-page memo.
They're just talking about super-damning stuff in the four-page memo, okay?
That is out of the larger, previously classified report that the FISA court put out saying
we found wrongdoing.
Here's what happened.
The court reported on what happened because it was criminal activity, ladies and gentlemen,
and that's what Nunes is getting at, and then the perjury about what the FBI and Justice
Department testified about, what they did at FISA.
That's why it's critical.
But there's all this other accompanying, as I said, breakdown of other accompanying document
just like you have a bibliography at the back of a book.
And I was saying that last segment because that's what our congressional sources said
and some at Fox News.
But Roderstone, you see him on Fox News, other people, he talks to those folks, they're his
friends.
They're getting the same stuff we're getting.
That's how he knew about, you know, so many of these firings or so many of these hireings
or that's how he knew about how they were planning to get rid of certain people was
from Fox News.
And then they try to spend the fact that, oh, he got it from the Russians, no.
You get news from the U.S. news sources.
You don't get it from the Russians, but they do this over and over and over again.
So I got a lot of other news other than the memo, I want to get into Davos, what Trump's
doing there, what's unfolding.
I'm going to get back your calls, Mark and John and Mitch and Candace and Kevin and
Dan.
Candace will be up next.
But for this segment and the next, the next 10, 15 minutes or so, Dan Lyman, infowars.com,
reporter is on the ground in Davos.
We haven't talked to him for 24 hours, so a lot has transcribed, you can follow his
amazing tweets and information, not just retweeted at real Alex Jones, but also on
his Twitter account that we'll put up on screen for TV viewers.
And again, if you're a radio listener, you want to see all the video, the things we're
talking about, infowars.com, forward slash show, and it's totally free, but please support
our local affiliates.
And I almost forgot, we're paying to have folks cover things in Switzerland, you name
it.
We're using a real hardcore news organization here that gives the whistleblowers a place
to get their information out.
So please, infowarsstore.com, we have our new bodies, ultimate turmeric formula way stronger
and purer than any other stuff on the market that we know of.
We've gone out to put out the very best.
It's 50% off out of the gates, $50 off the Alexa Pure Breeze air purification system,
four stage filter, ion filter, you name it, leading competitors are $400 to $500.
This is 200 bucks is a great deal, 149, it's unbelievably good.
It's got 4.9 stars by power reviews, 97% reviews.
Nobody gets that infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple eight two five three three one three
nine.
And again, you cannot find a media organization and believe me, I know I'm obnoxious, but
the guests, everything we do, that's more effective than infowars.
So thank you for your support.
You make the info war possible and I mean it, I salute you and thank you, but take advantage
of our new pollen block that people are just loving.
It's all natural.
Take advantage of the bodies, ultimate turmeric formula.
Take advantage of the specials at infowarsstore.com and make this information war continue to
be possible.
Thank you.
All right, Dan Lyman.
Wow, a lot's happened.
This HD footage in the background, while you give us a briefing, where do you want to start
on day one of Davos as President Trump arrives?
Good evening, Alex.
Good to be back with you.
It was definitely an interesting day with Trump's arrival.
The helipad was a lot more crowded than it has been on the other days, which is kind of
a slap in the face to the other leaders that have been showing up in the past days that
people I guess weren't as interested in was very crowded out there, but it was great to
see him come in.
It was magnificent to behold.
Man, the footage you've shot, you must be a professional photographer on top of all your
other skills.
What's the mood?
What are you hearing from locals?
The thing about Trump and the thing about what I'm hearing from people around here is
that I would say that even the people who don't like him are still fascinated by the
prospect that he's in town.
There's kind of an aura that he brings with him.
When I was trying to seek the best vantage point for the helipad, I happened to bump
into an Australian woman who does live in the area.
She was walking with me and she happened to know the lay of the land, so I was kind of
sticking with her.
She was very nice, and then eventually she asked me what I think about Trump.
I said, well, I'm an American, but I live here in Switzerland.
She said, oh, well, then that tells me everything I need to know.
I said, actually, it doesn't.
She was very surprised.
She just assumed I was one of these expats trying to get away from Trump's America, but
in reality, I'm one of his biggest supporters.
And we kind of went back and forth a little bit, and she called him extremely destructive.
And I kind of left it off there because I didn't want to get into it with her.
She was very nice, but I just don't understand how people can still call Trump destructive.
It blows my mind.
Plus, if you actually look at the real numbers, it's globalism that's destructive.
It's globalism that's authoritarian.
It's globalism that drives down wages.
It's globalism that impoverishes the third world.
It's globalism that's tax-exempt.
And so it's just always such an ignorant, nittying statement from pseudo-intellectuals
that might pick up a Rothschild-published Economist magazine once or twice a year, and
they just restate these talking points over and over again because Trump doesn't want
to give a bunch of multinational corporations complete carte blanche to overrun nation-states
and the voters.
Absolutely.
And to follow up with that, she did praise Australia and Switzerland for their little
bit set aside from the globalism in general, especially Switzerland being in the midst
of the EU.
But she said that's the strengths of these countries, that they're a little bit separated
from the globalist enclave.
And I was just thinking in my head, well, that's exactly what Trump wants for the United
States.
He doesn't want to do business with these countries and do bilateral agreements, it's
just that he doesn't want us interwoven into this globalist economic web that is clearly
taking so many first-world countries down to a second-world status.
You know, that's the funny thing.
Most Democrats I know that do have a business will not pay taxes, and the conservatives
all know, pay them religiously even though they don't like them, and it's the same thing.
Leftists will be trying to hide out in the middle of nowhere, and then they never liked
the policies of globalism, but then here comes Trump destroying it, and then they hate him,
and they're only doing it to virtue signal, you see.
Even though his ideas actually probably line up with theirs more than the Barack Obama,
they just feel good that they're bandwagoning with the media.
Don't they get mainstream media's a joke?
Groupthink is very powerful.
There's a collectivism, there's a powerful drug.
So I think that that still has a hold on a lot of people's minds, but as we spoke about
last night, there is definitely an awakening, and it's happening even at the highest levels,
even within Davos.
You have the defectors here and there, and this video that you're airing right now,
I watched that earlier today.
The awe that Trump puts everyone in, he silenced the room, someone called it that he had turned
Davos into Versailles, and it was an incredible reception that he received there, and I think
they all know they're in the presence of a lion, a true alpha male.
Just because he's going against the grain, they're a bunch of followers following something
set up by the Rothschilds and the Rockefellers at the end of World War II.
They tried to launch the same thing at the end of World War I, and it failed.
They're all just following along, putting their money and power into this thing to build
this big, unelected world government that no one's ever going to accept, Dan.
I think it's just easier for them.
They'd rather have someone else do these things for them and then either be employed
by them or just be in the hierarchy somehow above all the plebs and the peasants.
Even on the ride in, we're staring at feet of snow, and I overhear people talking about
global warming on the way in, and they're attributing it to that.
I find that shocking, but as I said, collectivism is a hell of a drug.
Well, it is.
I've got articles on nfullwars.com where a guy tweeted out there are only two genders,
and he got fired from his job, and people are calling for more.
I mean, there are only men and women.
Doesn't matter if you describe yourself as a golden dragon or a beautiful ornate building
or if I describe myself as Colonel Sanders.
It's just not true, but it's all about them making us accept what they want us to accept.
It's not about being nice to somebody.
It's about being in a cult.
We'll be back.
Stay with us.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from nfullwarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at nfullwarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well, nfullwarstore.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us, so we need your support.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalists' war on male
vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
Nfullwar's Life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at nfullwar'slife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas
Command Center and the heart of the resistance is Alex Jones.
So Dan Lyman is in Switzerland, he got Trump's arrival, all of it amazing.
Your calls are coming up in the next segment.
Mark, John, Mitch, Candice is up first, Kevin, Dan and many others as we look at the release
of the memo supposedly coming on Mondays, what I've been told, but we'll see.
You were describing how the press is saying he silenced the room, people were in awe,
it was like being at Versailles, which I mean, I guess the royal court of the Sun King
at Versailles because it's Macron calling himself the Sun King.
Looks like that's starting to happen with Trump without him saying it, Mr. Lyman.
In a way, it was just a video that I caught coming back on the train and it was just so
powerful that the caption had said something to the effect of this is true power.
Trump silence is a room full of media journalists and globalists and it's true.
I mean, these people, they don't shut up.
If I hear them talking constantly, they're always on the phone, they're talking to each
other and then when you see Trump coming in the room, it's just like every cell phone
is out, everyone's in awe, Trump brings that Trump aura, which translates so great to just
the American aura, the power, confidence through strength and peace as well and he just brought
that into the room and you could see that in that video in his entrance in general.
Then you see all the followers looking at the Maverick and Trump and they said the man
they said that they couldn't couldn't beat the establishment.
He couldn't beat the globalists.
They were all against them and now they they worship the ground that he walks on, whether
they want to admit it or not.
That happened yesterday.
Suddenly the heads of Davos said, we love Trump.
I had the headline here.
It was like, we love them.
It's been a great year.
They actually, the world economy is better.
Thank God for Trump and it's like suddenly they've all been attacking him.
And then now they all start saying, we love Trump.
We love Trump.
I mean, this just shows how Rockefellers and people were able to bully all these guys into
line.
Trump's not even bullying it.
He's just leading.
No question.
You had a, you probably covered it earlier in the show, but the Heritage Foundation is
saying that Trump's first year was better than Reagan's and, you know, we'll take that
all with a grain of salt.
But for, you know, the Heritage Foundation would definitely be, you know, Reagan is the
greatest man ever and for them to put Trump on a pedestal above him, it speaks volumes
even some of these never, never Trumpers are coming around and, you know, he's changing
the world at this, at this moment.
No, you're right.
The Heritage Foundation did not support Trump that, you know, they pitched this quote free
trade.
That means let China have huge tariffs on you with lower taxes and screw us and not have
a two way street.
And you're right.
They're all starting to get in line.
You know what I did find interesting and I wanted to ask you about it actually, John
Claude Junker, the head of the, of the EU basically, he canceled at the last second and he cites
a stomach flu as the reason for that.
Now, if you recall not too long ago, a few months ago, Junker was all out of warfare
against Trump and he said he would, he would back Texas it against the, if there was a
Texas exit, he was going to get behind that.
But of course he couldn't possibly back Brexit.
So I was going to ask you, do you think he bowed out because of out of cowardice or do
you think he really is sick?
Oh, no, Junker is, is, is literally the greatest heir of the Nazis.
His family was the first or second most rich, depending on the history books.
The main armories were Junker bombers, Junker munitions.
That was his grandfather.
His father was a top Nazi and Junker's family, paratrooped into Luxembourg, the richest country
in the world per capita, stole the country.
He said 13 months ago, we will crush Trump.
We control America.
We're going to show America economic war and you can pull that up.
In fact, the videos I shot about it were, you know, heir of the Nazi fortune pledges
to stop Trump and stop America.
And so he's an absolute joke.
Why should that piece of Nazi scum, anti-American globalist that opened Europe up to the Islamists?
I mean, he is the head of the unlucky to you.
He is the enemy.
So why would Hitler show up to face Churchill, basically?
Essentially, I do wonder if this was a moment of cowardice on his part or another moment
of Trump incurs divine providence where Junker goes down with the flu right when Trump comes
into town.
Wow.
This will be a day long remembered.
I love it.
God.
He watched Junker in the speeches he gives.
He is such an inbred mental deficient.
Your whole thing's going to hell.
We'll be back.
We've got huge news, by the way.
The biggest news.
I just got it.
They just found the text messages.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Info Wars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you
can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by Info Wars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
This is an amazing war on corruption, it's Alex Jones.
This is a tactic that's absolutely key that people absolutely must be aware of.
Just like Trump said, if you've been here 20, 30 years, you've got a degree, you're
working hard, you don't have a big criminal record, whatever, you have a misc vina or
something, then we're going to let you stay in the country.
That would be a fair dream act and I agree with that myself.
But then the media said he wants to kill all the Mexicans, hates them, blah, blah, blah,
wants to ban everybody, period.
And then when Trump doesn't do that, the right wing goes, oh my God, he was supposed to throw
everybody out who wasn't born here.
Well, it's the same thing with Davos.
I saw headlines everywhere in the London Guardian and the New York Times.
Trump sells out his base last week.
He's going to Davos.
He's going to kiss the hand of the elite.
He walks in, they fall on their faces.
The head of the thing, the dictator of the EU, unelected, yunker, doesn't show up.
The heir to the main Nazi fortune, his family was the first or second richest family in
Germany.
Again, the history books vary, but they're the top Nazis, okay?
I mean, they still control European countries that they just own through fraud.
So he doesn't show up and Donald Trump is guaranteed to betray his base.
Yeah.
I mean, this has been going on for a long time.
And then he doesn't betray and he kills TPP and delivers on the economy and they still
keep flipping out saying that he's going to sell us out.
I'm glad he went for a victory lap.
I'm glad he went to talk to the companies that want to move to the United States.
There it is.
Trump's ready to pull another fast one.
The President's trip to Davos has three serious issues and it goes on from there.
Oh yeah, he sure pulled a fast one with our economy coming roaring back and with veterans
getting double the amount of visits that they had just a year ago and the border is 70%
secure and the border wall starting to go in.
Yeah, sure pulled a fast one and now this big breaking news.
We're going to your calls with Dan Lyman, who's in Davos.
This is the Hill.
It's breaking.
I just tweeted it out at Real Alex Jones.
DOJ office says it has found the missing text messages of FBI officials.
Months of missing text messages between two FBI officials have been located.
According to a letter obtained by the Hill Justice Department Inspector General Michael
Horowitz told Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and John Ron Johnson of Wisconsin in a letter
of the messages spanning from December of 16 to 17, see nobody bought this, previously
thought missing that he's hit one button that was in the NSA due to technology glitch affecting
FBI phones have been found.
Really?
You think so?
By the way, Congress has all of it.
Trump has all of it.
The Office of the Inspector General has been investigating this matter and this week succeeded
in using forensic tools to recover text messages from FBI devices.
Oh, of course, yes, yes, it's always hard-coded.
From the Telecommunications Act of 96, all phones, all printers, all these communication
devices shave the material, and it's why they've got internal hard drives that things
just stop working in a few years because it fills up.
And that's the stuff I told you about a long, long time ago.
There it is.
Using text messages, anti-Trump FBI agents uncovered by DOJ.
They found them, infowars.com, now live.
We are in a minute-by-minute, play-by-play, Second American Revolution war with the Deep
State.
Lou Dobbs comes out and says, it's time to declare war on the Deep State.
The walls are closing in.
Sean Hannity, this isn't rhetoric you've been hearing from me.
We're in extraordinary times.
This is happening, literally, and I agree with an earlier caller.
I want to ask Dan Lyman, and then we're going to let him go and ask the callers this.
Then we've got Tyler Nixon coming in, who's a very interesting lawyer and political analyst,
really smart guy.
Just so out of you related to Richard Nixon, but we won't get into that part, good friends
with Roger Stone.
This is all happening, but I'm telling you, I think they'll release a bio-weapon like
the earlier caller said.
They did that after 9-11 when the Globals were involved with the Jihadis and wanted
to cover it up when stuff started coming out.
They did the anthrax to intimidate Congress into a bunch of stuff.
I'm really concerned, as I keep saying, that we not be too celebratory here because they're
going to strike back.
What do you think, Dan Lyman?
I think that there's no question anything is on the table at this point.
I'm honestly surprised things haven't gotten worse in the last year.
I thought that there would be more drastic measures taken, although I think that we did
see something strange go down in Las Vegas as we've covered in depth.
I don't know.
It's very interesting.
I'm so optimistic now at this point, now that we're a year in, but I know not to get
my hopes up too high because anything can happen at any given moment, especially with
the economy doing so well and the stock market doing so well.
You hear all financial advisors and traders, they say they've never seen a market like
this.
It's going on longer than they ever thought it would.
I wonder, is the Trump effect going to break this cycle that the globalists have this
chokehold they've had on the markets where there's a catastrophic event every eight years
or whatever, and then it sends the market into a spiral, hasn't happened this time around.
So I'm wondering what the dams are holding back right now, and it's probably pretty
ugly.
Well, I know this.
They haven't given up on me.
They are still throwing stuff at us that is directly from Hillary, directly from Soros.
I'll soon be able to reveal the details of it.
I mean, I've even got to go to DC in a couple of weeks.
I'm not supposed to get into this yet, so just believe me, when I do, we have caught
them red-handed, okay?
And you can argue I got a tiger by the tail or vice versa, but these are just crazy times.
Because I mean, I wasn't going to put up with their crap.
I put counter-surveillance on their people, spent a lot of money, and did a lot of stuff
and had a lot of help.
We'll just leave it at that, and let me tell you, these people are sick, and they're going
after everybody.
They're going after thousands of prominent people, and you see these congressmen up there?
They already tried to kill them.
So you think about that, folks.
They're trying to kill everybody right now.
So I mean, we kind of smile about this in Texas, and yeah, we're in a fight, yeah, it's
all crazy, but we're not like SJWs that are considering crying about it.
It's actually quite exciting.
I'm having a great time.
It's just, we're not in Kansas anymore, folks.
This is the real deal.
Let's go to Kansas in Tennessee.
Thanks for holding Kansas.
You're awesome.
You're on the air worldwide with a Dan Lyman from Switzerland.
Go ahead.
Hey, Alex and Dan.
How are you doing?
Good.
First, real quick, I would just like to ask a quick question before I get to my comment.
I know you were very busy, but have you and your crew had a chance to pick the winners
of the People's Choice Awards?
You know, I'm like a guy in a bunker giving orders on that, and I have said, these are
the winners.
They have been picked, and you know what, I'm going to announce them at the end of the
show next hour.
One way or the other is going to happen.
Okay, great.
I mean, also, I agree with the other caller that these people are just so cornered that
you know, I think that there's going to be a false flag attack for sure.
Well, that's what everybody's group collective mind is saying, and I think you're on target.
Keep going, Candice.
Yeah, I mean, I just, you know, their darkest secrets are getting exposed, so, you know,
they're just like a dog in a corner, and I just think they're going to pull something
major.
And they're such arrogant whenever you watch Comey or Mueller walk into Congress bugging
their eyes out like they're God, all these guys behind them, all these lawyers is going
like they're just the best people in the world when they're the those guys are the Clinton
scum or the trash of the earth.
They're like cancer inside the FBI, and they are so arrogant.
Imagine all that hubris is getting wiped away, Candice, right now.
Yeah, that's great.
They're just stinging, so it's good to see them be put in their place.
Absolutely.
But don't think they're the types that will blow themselves up to stop the recovery.
What do you think, Dan?
What's your gut tell you?
No question.
And I think that it's not even just the U.S. crisis at this point for them.
It's on the international scale.
So we should be prepared for anything anywhere, to be honest, not just in the United States.
That is the smartest thing I've heard all day, and I've heard a lot of really intelligent
statements.
You're right.
North Korea, we know the global's behind the scenes are winding up rocket man.
No question.
We definitely have to keep an eye on everything.
I mean, there's actually Turkey just invaded Syria last week.
That could kick back up again.
I have a Syrian bartender, actually, I'm sorry, a barber, not a bartender, a barber.
He's a Syrian Kurd, and he was asking me what I thought about the invasion of Syria by Erdogan,
and he even said Erdogan equals ISIS to him.
And so, I mean, we have to even keep an eye on that situation.
You have Trump's basically eradicated ISIS in the span of a year, just like you promised,
and all of a sudden, there's a new conflict in Syria, so let's keep an eye on that for
sure.
That's right.
And they are attacking U.S.-backed Kurds, and the whole war started there, and that's
in my stack.
I need to get to that.
Absolutely.
All right, look, you get back on the street, Dan Lyman from FullWars.com.
Great job with all the work you're doing, we'll be following everything you do.
Thank you so much.
We'll be back with more calls, more breaking news.
They found the text.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
And I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA Pack technology.
Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm
and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla, do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years, I've helped thousands and I can
help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or on my website, danpilla.com.
Blood disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier
I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305 or order
online hbxtract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbxtract.com.
you, my favorite new one is the don't tread on me but it says won't
tread on me, it's a big day glow snake, and then it's got the American flag info wars
dot com on the right arm.
I mean that's a great way to meet like minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech.
The newest one is Trigger Warning T-Shirt, Trigger Warning T-Shirt, which is the symbol
of a trigger with a yield sign in the infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
Infowars Wipe is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress, and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll 3-888-253-3139.
He never gives up, he's Alex Jones, broadcasting from deep in the heart of Texas, worldwide.
Roger Stone has got big inside intel on the vaunted secret FISA memo coming up in the
next segment.
We'll continue with your calls as well.
We've got a very clear picture of what's in it, and now if you look at Congressman Gates
and Congressman Jordan and Congressman Nunes and Congressman, or Chairman Nunes and Congressman
Gowdy and everybody else, and how panicked Adam Schiff is, the head of the judiciary
committee on the Democrat side in the House, you know what's in it.
And we've already know the pieces of the puzzle, so we're going to put them together coming
up.
And as I heard last night, Monday's the target date, well now that's being reported that
they're looking to have a vote on Monday, but they're not sure yet.
So that's coming up.
I want to go back to your calls.
But Kit Daniels, I haven't seen him smile on this big, well he smiles all the time,
but he's an happy guy.
But one of our great writers, Kit Daniels, came in here with this article, he said this
is like, Trump and Davos is like George Washington getting on a ship in the middle of the Revolutionary
War and going into King George III's court and just basically getting right in his face.
And that's what's happened.
And Trump is delivering on everything he said he would do yet again, and it's not a love
fest.
They're trying to destroy him with secret cabals because he's returning sovereignty
to the country.
I don't like how he's been bullied into escalating conflict with Russia.
I don't like that he's not going after the vaccines and all that kind of stuff.
I've got some big issues, but let me tell you, he's really our president.
This is wild.
Vox reporting, why Trump is going to Vavos, the world's biggest party for globalist elites
explained.
He was attending to both boast and confident and confront the crowd that disdains him.
Absolutely.
Trump is tending to both boast and confront the crowd that disdains him.
That is a report came out a few days ago and that is exactly what I'm saying and that is
exactly what we are now seeing.
So there you go, didn't go to Davos, didn't sell us out.
Very, very exciting.
Here's from the article that Kit Daniels wrote.
But now, thanks to Trump, Brexit and the ongoing migrant crisis, average Europeans are starting
to question why they're losing their cultures and identities to the EU.
And they look to Trump as the Howard Rourke style American cowboy who's undeterred rebellion
against a legion of doom inspires their own individual thoughts and opinions.
So there you go.
Right now, let's go back to your phone calls.
Who's been holding the longest here?
Mark in Iowa, thanks for holding it on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Hi, Alex.
Thank you for taking my call.
I want to thank God bless you, your crew and your family.
Thank you, sir.
You too.
Turn the radio on and get the truth.
Thank you.
Yes, sir.
Welcome.
I was wondering, well, thanks, I was wondering in a nutshell, if in 1776 our forefathers were
in a room put a pen to paper and coming up with the Declaration of Independence, in short,
it was because the government came and asked to govern.
Our forefathers wrote this down, said, if you'll govern this way, you can govern in
a nutshell, I guess.
So if now today we're finding out that every single three-letter agency of the federal
government, the DOJ, CDC, you name it, FDI, CIA, all of these entities, all of them, have
screwed over the American people, couldn't we, cancel our contract and fire them all?
And what is the government so worried about?
Why do they think we're newborns?
Well, sure, we've got a major broken social contract.
I'm trying to fix the country and restore the republic.
We're still going to have major problems and ongoing fights.
It's just the current, embedded, arrogant group of criminals that have gotten away with
anything you can imagine are now finding out they're not invincible.
But if we successfully remove these crooks, I intend to see more integrity come back in.
And if we don't see that, then we need to continue to hold their feet to the fire regardless.
Regardless.
That's what eternal vigilance is all about.
And I want to see the government shrunk in size.
I don't want to just see tax cuts.
I want to see deficits paid down.
I want to see a lot of things.
And Trump's just stabilizing things right now.
He's got to use a bubble so we don't stall out.
China's got bubbles much bigger than ours.
But I certainly hope that down the road, we then put pressure to stabilize the country.
Great.
Yeah, I agree.
I agree.
One more quick question, if you would, Alex.
I'm originally, I grew up in Illinois.
And in Illinois, if I had a birthday yesterday, I got caught driving today, I would go to
jail.
But I don't know beyond a shadow of a doubt these people are committing treason by sedition.
Why are they not picked up?
Because in Illinois, if I got caught driving on a one day license that has expired by just
one day, they hauled my car, tow it, that's $400-some-odd dollars, and I'd go to jail
for three years.
Now, I totally understand.
This is the issue people have with illegal aliens.
Illegal aliens, when they have wrecks and hit people, the judges just let them go.
That's it, met it on the news.
Citizens get the book thrown at them because citizens are seen as cash cows.
I don't care if you're white, black, Hispanic, Asian, old, young.
You get the book thrown at you.
Illegals don't, because the judges all over the country, including Republican districts,
just tell people, oh, leave them alone.
They're kind of the underclass.
They're the permanent worker class going back to when they were brought in to pick the fields
or whatever, and being used to drive down everybody else's wages.
I want to bring folks in and then raise the wages up, not use that model.
So ever since they've been brought in to some areas as migrant workers, before they were
made a permanent underclass of the Democrats, back when they were just seasonal farmers
that came through and they went back to Mexico, they had to be ignored and above the law then.
Because we weren't using them.
Well, they're still being used, but it's being used to undermine everything and is discriminatory
to citizens that have the book thrown at them.
I mean, I was talking to judges and people and others.
They let illegal aliens off for drunk driving, you name it.
Because again, our days have faded.
The former Austin police chief, now the Houston police chief, he's been in this studio and
said, Alex, if we arrest illegal aliens for stuff or whatever, then they won't trust us
when there's a crime and we're needed.
Okay, so basically for non-really serious aggravated felonies then, you're saying illegal aliens
are above the law.
And then it creates a vacuum where there's no law enforcement and no law and then criminals
come in and prey on those communities and they know they can prey on the Asian and Hispanic
communities that are homogeneous and contained.
And then that's where the majority of the crime is committed against those people and
then nothing's done.
And it creates criminal zones within the cities, within the counties and a permanent underclass.
So I absolutely agree with you, sir, your inspection stickers out, you get pulled over,
you get a ticket, maybe you get your car code and if you're a single mom with three kids
in the back of the car, the cops will be told, go ahead and write her tickets.
But if you're a person here illegally, that doesn't happen.
But if I'm in Mexico and I'm the foreigner, it's well known that a lot of the police are
corrupt and I've watched my dad, those people many times, give him a $20 bill, $100 bill
or whatever saying you were speeding, even though my dad wasn't speeding, he drives
like an old lady.
It's incredible.
I've saw it five, six times when I was a kid and I said, dad, I don't want to come down
here anymore.
So by the time I was about 12, he said, fine, stay with your grandparents when you go out
of town because they love southern Mexico and I like it too.
It's very pretty and a lot of cool stuff.
But the point is, is that I feel your brother and I know what you're talking about.
Now it's not even really like that.
The old corrupt cops, they're pretty much all gone.
This is paramilitary troops everywhere and super, super dangerous.
So we'll be, and of course that's where corruption leaves.
It just gets worse and worse.
All right.
I'm Alex Jones, Newswars.com.
My Pillow will get you into that deep REM sleep faster and you will stay there longer.
It's not about how much time we spend in bed, it's about how much of that quality sleep
we get.
I do all of my own manufacturing right here in the United States.
I have a 10 year warranty.
You can wash and dry my pillow and I give you a 60 day money back guarantee so you have
nothing to lose.
And here's my best opera ever.
You can buy one of my pillows and get one absolutely free.
Go to MyPillow.com or call 800-870-0305 and use promo code GCN.
That's MyPillow.com or 800-870-0305 with promo code GCN.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from InfoWarsLife.com but instead
of going over those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify
how strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount
of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and
gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at InfoWarsLife.com, what you can do for your family and again,
I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality InfoWars Biome Defense
Probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality, known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different
probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your Biome Defense in Ultra Strength or Regular Strength at InfoWarsLife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run of the public,
so please take advantage of it today.
Take your own health and support the InfoWars.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Brushing through the lives and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
Alright, I want to try to be calm here because this is so important and I tend to get too
excited as everybody knows.
Walk through what we know is already known about illegal spying on candidate Trump, President
Elect Trump, and then right at the time that he was actually inaugurated, plus surveillance
and harassment, lawsuits against myself, Roger Stone, you name it, by the Hillary law firm,
by the Soros groups, by Obama's law group that he set up to quote, battle Trump once
he was in office.
That's CNN, that's Politico, I mean this is all admitted.
But it's all coming to a head now as we learn the real collusion, the real secret societies,
the real stuff that was going on were a bunch of FBI agents and Justice Department people
inside of the Obama administration who've been appointed by the Clintons engaging in
this massive crime.
And now Chairman Devin Nunez and others are each week rolling out what's going to be released
the next week.
The collusion, the secret meetings, the insurance policies, the deputy director getting money
from Hillary directly.
It goes on and on and on and shifts gone from this isn't real to desperately saying don't
release it to we're putting our own memo out and I know Roger has given me a lot of intel
from folks that have seen the memo and it's basically what they've already said but more
damning text messages and more collusion and more secret meetings and of course this stuff
is all recoverable by the NSA but it's very embarrassing with all this illegal spying
to admit where they're really getting it but we knew this was coming when senators and
others started saying yesterday, oh don't worry we'll just get that out of the NSA database
missing text between anti-Trump FBI agents uncovered by the DOJ.
People didn't buy that, there was a glitch on the phones that made them all disappear
50,000.
DOJ office says it has found missing text messages of FBI officials they were able to
pull it off of the phones between Strach and his girlfriend Paige and so the rabbit hole
just gets deeper and crazier.
So Roger let's encapsulate what we're seeing the cornered rat scenario the walls closing
in the deep states war against America and the electric now exposed I think we've reached
the point of maximum danger with these people cornered as Trump dominates at Debo's how
are they going to strike back what's the intel you've got of what's in the memo how much
can you tell folks and how accurately from your research have I gotten stuff here.
Well Alex so let's try to summarize this because it's all coming at us so quickly it can be
somewhat confusing the hundred page FISA document that we put up at info wars essentially
was summarized in the four page memo the basic underlying information is essentially
the same and here's how it goes in essence the the dirty dossier the dossier which falsely
accused Donald Trump of dallying with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel room a complete and total
fabrication was used as the fake rationale to go to the FISA court and get permission
for the wholesale surveillance of Donald Trump and some of his closest associates including
yours truly the problem for the deep state is that when the FISA court initially denied
their requests they went ahead with the surveillance anyway so this entire investigation Mueller
the House and Senate Intelligence Committee investigations the FBI investigation into
so-called Russian collusion is all based on a willful fabrication and the reason you
see the rats scrambling today is because it is not credible that the entire frontline
of the Obama NSA the Obama Justice Department the Obama FBI did this without authority from
the highest possible level you notice that President Barack Obama lawyer up today why
because we are beginning to ask the obvious question what did the president know and
when did he know it the deep state was in such a tizzy to stop Donald Trump that they fabricated
the initial piece of evidence on which everything afterwards is based oh we have to spy on him
because he's in bed with the Russians that was a falsehood from the get-go and it is
on that thin read that all collapses the credit Alex in my opinion really goes to Matt Gates
congressman Ron DeSantis congressman Jim Jordan congressman Trey Gowdy while the country
club Republicans were all out at a cocktail party these four brave individuals stayed
the course and kept pounding for the truth and I've mentioned this quite a bit but but
you're absolutely right this morning I was just sitting back thinking about the American
people waking up about the real press we've got in this country our great crew all of
us together but I really sat back and I thought why is it different now it's not just that
Trump showed up on the scene or that nationalism is popping everywhere it's like the spirit
it's the times we're in historians always marked that you know there were times of tyranny
times of enlightenment times of awakening times of war times of peace I guess his proverb
says a time to live a time to die a time to sow a time to reap and right now we suddenly
have this wonderful crop of congressmen and women but but mainly men that are doing bold
things that a lot of congressmen have had their planes blow up you know you got killed
during the 70s and 80s we had some good people back then too a lot of them ended up you know
dying being assassinated and so this is a big big deal and of course you know we have
QAnon saying that he's hired counsel but but the word is they're all luring up and that's
in the mainstream news so we don't I don't go off what QAnon says you know a lot of what
QAnon says is he's really accurate stuff it is obviously some intelligent sources in the
government that are patriots but we can see them all luring up in in the real world Roger
can you speak to that a little bit more well also there are some ominous clouds on the
horizon as you know when Paul Manafort was indicted indicted with him was his longtime
associate Rick Gates Manafort and Gates are a pawn in Mueller's game they could get off
the hook easily if they would simply agree to bear false witness against the president
which they both resolutely refused to do but is it coincidental that Rick Gates spokesperson
was killed in his hotel room only two days ago as reported by CNN is this a warning shot
for those who would question the deep state that report I can tell you sent chills up my spine
upset my wife very substantially now we learn that some of the text messages that were missing
related to discussion of bumping off the president yes I just said it the a word assassination
I have said two things from the beginning here at info wars first of all that the FISA court
disclosures last November that 30,000 people had been illegally and unconstitutionally surveilled
was the key to this entire scandal and then secondly that the deep state had a four stage
program stage one the electoral college and a recount stop trump there it failed we now know
that general James Clapper a criminal a traitor a man now treating teaching ethics at Roanoke
college who should be in prison based on the fact that he perjured himself in front of the
congress about the existence of the metadata program actually was plotting to use a supreme
court justice to somehow delay Donald Trump's inauguration and his actual swearing in on
the bible that's how desperate these criminals were alex stay wait a minute wait a minute
stay right there I didn't know that that must be something new or something I missed wow
tell us about that when we come back because we know they were talking about delaying the
inauguration and and Clapper was involved uh it's the same guy that that caught line of
congress that's just insane this this started to make my head spin and then I've got a whole
another story I haven't gotten to wait till we cover that support good oral health with our one
of a kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste
blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor
made with peppermint oil or try our bubble gum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with
the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash
features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of
containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of
other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super
blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural
ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free
products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info war store dot com
that's info war store dot com frank in north carolina thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah i just
have to face up a man it seems like every time i turn on your broadcast your bracket it just gets
old man i'm gonna shut you down right now okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you
understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand i'm ringing
the alarm if that was happening to anybody else i'd be freaked out i mean what's it gonna take us
being shut down is that what you want frank you know what i was putting my pause again hey frank
do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under attack we need
your help as much begging as i do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this i'm not
going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards you understand i need your
help frank i need your help frank go to info war store dot com right now and help fund the info
do you understand i need your help frank free press needs your help frank
introducing fluorolife the new probiotic line developed exclusively by info war's life
after years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics are made the same fluorolife
probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly
into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics
so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic then you're cheating your gut health
and your wallet fluorolife supports your body's core where you need it most including digestion
regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you know that over 80 percent of your immune
system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall
health fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program head to info wars life dot com to pick
up your bottle of fluorolife probiotics today that's info wars life dot com over a year in the
making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that if you want proven studies
and documentation let me speak for hours this is on the files i have here of what this is proven
to do the ingredients in this this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year anytime
of the year but immune wall is incredible and folks other formulas that aren't even as good
are 70 80 it's a great deal at 39 immune wall beta glucans olive leaf and so much more it is
concentrated you need to go read what is in here the mushroom blend of the most expensive highest
quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend i mean this is the next level
it's now available ladies and gentlemen immune wall i think is beyond seasonal beta glucan olive
leaf and more immune wall info wars store dot com info wars life dot com or triple eight two five
three three one three nine you're listening to the alex jones show
all right this is the alex jones show and alex jones your host john rapaport's host of the fourth
hour i'll host some of that with him and then Owen shroyer and roger stone coming back in for
the war room three to six p.m you got david night of course so with the david night transmission
that is eight a.m central every weekday morning and i do the sunday broadcast four to six p.m as well
well i wanted to hit this but then now more news just broke first off three or four days ago they
started sending out tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of emails a couple of our crew got it
poll Watson got it saying russian bots run you during the election and a lot of people said
wait i didn't have my account till after and then they went and looked at their tweets it was them
so then we have all these peoples like like adam schiff and others of the house history committee
the head democrat telling twitter yes ban all these people they are basically russian agents
everybody backlashed and twitter actually sent out a public statement saying no we've looked
they're americans adam schiff knows that the boldness now of moving from roger stone alex
jones and matt drudge and tucker carlson and ran pauler agents of putin those are quotes remember
mccain on that senate floor you're an agent of putin ran paul and i guess the next step is we'll
get you at the baseball game next time i mean this is what they told themselves these are crazy people
and now they're saying hundreds of thousands of people of americans are see we're all evil
meanwhile this just broke at the hill newspaper g.o.p panics as signs point to eminent mewler block
buster the scores are the tax against the fbi by a growing number of house and senate republicans
demonstrate a high degree of fear the special counsel robert mewler swan mewler sass us should
up and then i guess there's a blurb there should applaud the choice of mewler to lead the russian
probe more will make block buster moves that's their weird typo jumbled insanity doesn't make sense
moves to the coming days and weeks that will define the fate of ongoing investigations
of the russian attack against america so they just state this hoax again
and then it says oh the republicans are doing this because they're desperate
no they're not desperate that we've caught them red-handed we have struck in in text messages
saying there's no evidence of any russian collusion what are we going to do roger this is just
insane when you look at all this i mean they're not giving up no alex i think that they're that
they're capable of great great violence we saw that in the uh in the attack on congressman's
khalise i myself in the wake of the murder of rick gates spokesman have taken on personal
security i know some on some occasions you have to use it i really did it for my wife's piece of
mind they aren't going to silence us we're not going to stop we're going to keep pushing for the
truth now suddenly adam schiff and diane feinstein those great liberals who normally like full
disclosure and transparency oh no the american people can't see this information it's it's too
complicated for them they won't understand it that's because it is a blueprint of treachery
that's because it is a roadmap of treason that's why they have violated as i said yesterday
on the one room show multiple federal laws including laws against sedition treason conspiracy
plotting to take down the government now muller and his cohorts are the ones who must face prison
in my opinion uh just first off for people watching on skype this is some really good
product placement uh tell me about uh the new athletics program you're involved in well i have
a yesterday i had a mean a lie who's a personal trainer who i've been associated with for 20 years
come on the war room show and talk about both caveman which he uh highly advocates in a program
with the high quality weight protein that we sell at info wars and and he has had enormous
success with this program i'm really trying to stick to it one body part of day cardio every
other day sticking to the info wars format and he came on give a little testimonial to our
products which he's a big big fan of and in the meantime he is providing some personal security
for me and my family i like that it's almost like like we're sedan who's saying we using two guys
behind you but well but with volatiles and machine guns i wish this was something to
laugh about alex but the number of death threats every time i do the alex jones show every time
i'm on fox news they just spike i was on with laura ingram last night on fox talking about
why it's a mistake for the president to give this interview to miller it's a perjury trap it's a set
up the death threats against me immediately spike it's really for my wife and my family's piece of
mind well that's awesome um roger you are something else uh getting back to all this other news here
do do do you think they have anything else up their sleeve any other fake bomb shells because
i mean they are getting torn to hell right now and this is their spin that the gop is panicking
alex here's the game plan for miller i've laid it out before but now i think both pieces of it
are obvious miller's going to indict the president's son-in-law on some phony trumped up charge of lying
to an fbi agent they're going to claim that he was the one who instructed general flinn a great
patriot a man who was unjustly and unfairly discharged in my opinion uh with uh setting up a
meeting with the russians well within the purview of general flinn's job part of his responsibilities
as the national security advisor in my opinion it's smart to be talking to the russians they have
thermonuclear weapons they can blow the entire world to hell we know i totally agree with you
let's shift gears quickly then what else are they going to do is they're cornered rats because
that's what everybody's spidey since it's concerned about a b uh look at trump in debos they're like
in awe and it looks like another big coup for america it's the one-two punch the indictment of
kushner followed by some effort to entrap the president uh who thinks he's going to an interview
to talk about russian collusion look i sympathize with the president i know why he's willing to
get this interview he knows in his heart he's done nothing wrong he knows in his heart that there was
no russian collusion what he doesn't understand is that miller and his pack of partisan hacks are
weasels uh and they're going to try to euker him box him into some obstruction of justice charge or
some perjury charge that's what they have coming those are the bomb shells that the hill is referring
to that's right and you told me before trump was even elected he said kushner's not a bad guy he's
a good guy but you know the uh business dealings real estate that the fbi couldn't die to ham sandwich
and kushner doesn't think he's anything wrong so he's been blabbering to everybody as well and
miller's gone and interviewed all these people now so they're going after kushner because he was nice
to them no i couldn't agree with you more alex there's no jared kushner's done nothing wrong
that i'm aware of other than try to help his father-in-law make america great again we disagree
politically but i do think his heart's in the right place and he strongly favors the success of
the trump administration what he doesn't understand is that miller is not a buy the book prosecutor
this is not an unbiased process this is a small nest of partisan rats that seek to box the president
so that they can remove him all they want to do is undo what they couldn't do in the election last
november by the way i do like the fact you have security there we have security as well i'm just
i'm just making the joke because he was a muscle guy behind you but seriously you can also hold up
your firearm roger because everybody knows your crack shot they've seen the videos and they know
that you're heavily armed so i think that's the real reason that you and your wife everybody are
safe plus uh this fellow here i wouldn't start anything with him either well it's look it's for
it's for our family's peace of mind now it's i i can't tell you how many death threats i get by
email by text in the mail we've informed local sheriff's office uh we could tell the fbi but
i have a feeling we'd be wasting our time all right brother great job we appreciate you we'll
check it with you again tomorrow we have a reporter in davos as well the amazing footage
reports coming back that's coming up as well i'll be hosting part of the fourth hour uh straight
ahead with the great john rapaport thank you roger stone we'll be back shortly on the war room
don't miss it that's in about an hour and five minutes from now before we go any further because
i've barely been plugging the last week because i'm so focused on the news thank you for making
info as possible thank you for allowing us to send these reporters around the world
to have people cover these big events we have the new product that i'm so excited about is the
ultimate turmeric formula bodies or bodies bodies whole body support amazing powerful
concentrated 400 plus milligrams of concentrated turmeric and all the great things it does in
every capsule along with a bunch of other amazing things that supercharge organic sage leaf
organic lemon balm leaf uh organic thyme leaf uh pepperine from black pepper and so much more
baswila but pronouncing that right this is an amazing formulation infowarstore.com it just came
out this week and it is 50 off so you can try it at that introductory prize you're probably
50 off for another year take advantage of that stay with us we'll be back hour number four
info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine we have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing this
is pollen blood in the 1960s researchers in france noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose
itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production they began studying the effects in published
trials in their published trials now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast
acting chewable tablet just two two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast
acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress
enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting pollen block available now
at info wars life.com or by calling toll three triple eight two five three three one three nine
top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new supercharged brain force plus
and fill the rust without the crash brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural
activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit
extract that gives you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological
tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of
mind it's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars.com studios it's alex jones and john rapaport's taken over in about
t minus six minutes or exactly six minutes from now i just want to say it again everybody that's
been listening for 20 years 15 years you know i was super negative super angry and after the
establishment and just discrediting the entire power structure because it was bad and it doesn't
mean we're still don't have a lot of problems but nationalism free market folks that aren't out to get
you that's what's entering the world again and the world is turning against globalism and a lot of
top people don't want to be part of this either so it's a very exciting time but i wanted to get in
this little segment into the hypocrisy of the media and just how dumb they think you are it's a total
conspiracy theory that the russian stole the election and controlled trump and controlled his
family and there was all this collusion and in years and years of investigation it's been going on
for two plus years nothing found and on the other side all the illegal wiretaps and all the spying
and all the lying and and all the deleting text and all the secret societies and all the insurance
policies and then joe scarborough goes on television and says just stop your conspiracy theories because
you are making america less safe that's what they get down to now and just nebulous conspiracy theories
when they're the ones putting out the conspiracy theories we told everybody samsung galaxy phones
of that type i even knew this when i heard it but then all the tech experts came out and said you
cannot erase them without burning them the governments have demanded the u.s government
mainly in telecommunication acts going back to 96 that they have encryption keys i'm not the tech
guy the point is they never really erased the data it's how it's organized it just rewrites it to say
you can now write over this but it's still there and so of course the justice department then
announced today oh we were able to get in the 50 000 emails because no one bought it they had to back
off okay it's a conspiracy theory to say it's erased because the fbi knows about everybody
going back the first thing was like 35 years ago they were scared of counterfeiting so they got the
printer companies to put secret codes in the ink so they could tell when you bought it and who you
were and all that and of course now that's known so let's go to scarborough man you talk about
conspiracy theories this guy is the biggest discredited joke in the galaxy here he is talking
about who is the informant to run johnson's the McCarthy accusation like accusation i mean
you know one of the worst things about this incidentally the fbi does make mistakes and there
aren't problems the fbi and you do want congressional oversight of our executive branch institutions
and this discredits sort of i think legitimate efforts to say wait a second let's take a look
at this or that at all this dirty pool that is being played by members of uh that that neocon
they have on his father was the head of the trotskyites and reported directly william
crystal to trotsky who Stalin had killed in mexico with an isax he is third in command
from trotsky and they said we got to take the republicans over if we're going to have communism
be successful and there it sits thought i'd just add that he's not going to tell you that uh go
ahead even the new york times though admits that very proud of it though that is that is the the
heir to trotsky let's continue that is being played by members of uh of the senate and the house
and the administration you're undercutting the foundation of this democracy okay that's enough
he gets into conspiracy very crap i want to add this her dad was the head architect of
wanting world war three with the russians who had bragged that he helped have genocide
by manipulating the situation uh in cambodia that killed 30 percent of the population
this is big to brazil's key i mean i could just keep hitting you and hitting you and hitting you
see when you know who these people are and then you got scar bro with the dead intern
and the autopsy they wouldn't do and you just are looking at a bunch of scum i mean it's just i
can go through every one of these people on tv man it's like north korea where you have a third
generation dictator these scumbags then their kids end up ruling over us i mean i guess meek
and scar bro we're gonna pop one out it'll be our new god and dance around america's grave
not all my watch scumbags we'll be back with john rapaport
climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by info wars life for those who want to
increase testosterone and energy levels most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline
starting around 30 at a rate of about one to two percent per year this drop can show signs such as
fatigue low energy low sex drive and muscle loss alpha power is packed with some of the most potent
and clinically tested ingredients on the market the secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient
ingredients that have been concentrated into their most potent forms including uricoma
longifolia originally from malaysia makaroo from peru horny goat wheat from china and tribulus from
india reach your alpha male potential with alpha power get alpha power now at 50 off and secure
your bottle today broadcasting live from the un stronghold austin texas you're listening to the
alex jones show john rapaport here in the fourth hour sitting in for alex at info wars
i was talking on a show earlier today and i just want to kind of finish up on a theme that i think is
in line with what alex was talking about and what's really going on here there's a little item called
achievement know that word achievement it's not taught anymore it's not elevated anymore in schools
the idea that great achievements can be made especially launched by an individual or
who can't have that but achievement in general has taken a very far backseat to the idea of
some kind of giant cheese glob of collectivism in our society oh we're all in this together and so
and so and it's all we're all the same and the thing and the glob and the floating around and oh yes
and and uh just you know be part of uh of the group and the collective and and just uh for the sake
of utopia that's coming right around the corner all of this preposterous crap has been floated now
now seriously floated now for the last 30 or 40 years and achievement where did that go
achievement the great achievements i came of age in new york city i used to stand out there at night
on rooftops go up to the top of the empire state building you look out new york city at night
what an incredible sensation that this has been built that this all was made
that this all came up out of the ground by human effort it wasn't lowered from a spaceship
somebody didn't just snap their fingers and it appeared it was created and designed and built
up to the sky
it just marches out to the horizon at night this fantastic sense of expansion achievement taking
wing and maybe you've seen the old photographs in black and white high steel workers sitting up there
on way above the ground on girders in the middle of the day eating their lunch casually
they built them they built them and when they came down finally for the end when it was all
done they looked up there and they said we built this we built this achievement
and now you have all kinds of globalist front groups little diabolical creatures
scurrying along that want to tear it all down tear it all down get rid of the whole thing
let's tear it all down because that'll be righteous that will be payback
for what for what what are you going to put in this place
people looking across the land for tubers and roots and living in trees is that what you want
is that going to be final social justice there are so many fantastic places around the world
when you see them and you look at them and you stand there and you realize how they have
been built by people created invented designed labored over constructed fantastic things you
go to the Frick Museum a little museum in New York City and you see two or three magnificent
paintings by Vermeer you go to the Metropolitan Museum you look at a few fantastic paintings
by Van Eyck you begin to get a sense of achievement achievement that takes wing
that is still at the heart and the root of what the future is all about if it's not about that
it's not about anything except destruction tearing it all down and of course that's what
what the arch globalists want to do that's where they want to go because then they can rebuild it
in their image that is the image of the machine where the humans are machines and the machines
are machines and everything is run like clockwork technically everything is on schedule
everything is on time everything is measured out by small drips and drafts people are in slots
people are units ciphers non-entities of no concern no regard except as ant colonies of the future
that is their version of achievement and for that they do not need people
they do not need people and they certainly don't need people to be inspired to want to achieve
you want to achieve if you can't see that or find it it's covered up and you need to
to get the draw out of the way and clear down to that river of creative energy that is achievement
that is the basis of freedom the reason for freedom to achieve in this world
the eerie canal ever hear of it in the early 19th century new york city which was the major
center of commerce certainly in the new world was blocked off from the interior of the country
where there were you know endless resources there was no possibility of trade you had mountains in
the way and you had pack animals and how were you going to build any kind of market free market
economy impossible but the governor of new york d whit clinton an individual who was all about
achievement said guess what we're going to build a 363 mile canal from albany new york
connecting to the great lakes and thereby into the interior of america so that we can ship
goods trade back and forth by water people thought he was completely crazy
clinton's folly clinton's ditch this was not with technology of present day this was
people grabbing the guts of the land and saying we are going to build with what we have
363 miles of canal from albany through mountains across mountains
to the great lakes and thereby opening up the whole interior of the united states
well you can't do that that's ridiculous all the little diabolical demons nipped at his heels
you know because that's all they can do they can't do anything themselves they can't create
anything all they can do is know away like little rats he paid no attention to that instead of
course we're going to do it and he did it and they did it all the people who worked on that did it
it was completed in 1825 this was the same d witt clinton who said
at a time when most of the people living in manhattan in new york city lived at the bottom
i'll tell you that story when we come back from the break it's quite fantastic john
matthewport here for infor
are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals are you happy doing laundry with
detergents are you happy paying high prices find your happiness with pure soap these all natural
earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48
months to plot or get items individually and still save big you're getting soap products
twice as good as what you're using now earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves
the best happiness is five star soap dot com why not put your money up the drain for a change
see them at five star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save
you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated
soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils see their full selection of soaps at five star soap
dot com that's fiv star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog fully cooked ready
to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy
some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life nasa pack
technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and
served life saving ready to eat bacon 10 year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon
dot com fully cooked bacon dot com hear that that's the sound of a house being trashed while a
gang of thieves ransacked the place and what they don't steal will be destroyed this year resolve
not to be the next victim of a break in go to fake tv dot com and discover a device that creates
the illusion someone inside is watching tv even when you're miles away security is a mindset and
fake tv should be part of your security solution be vigilant but not fearful fake tv dot com
introducing cell force by info wars life cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and
protection mitochondria produce over 95 percent of your energy they are your body's cellular engines
cell force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria much
like a cellular engine overhaul because when your mitochondria don't run at 100 percent efficiency
then they start producing reactive oxygen species top scientists agree that aging is most likely
caused by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species the antioxidants found
in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market the stronger the antioxidant
the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals boost
protect and adapt with cell force from info wars life head to info wars life dot com or call
one eight eight eight two five three thirty one thirty nine i want to plow into all of this
that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear
and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i don't
want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children
and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands
against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we
know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
news analysis reports it's the alex jones show and now your host john wrap up for
here in the fourth hour on info wars before i finish that story i want to tell you about
one of the products at info wars store alexa pure breeze air purifier is now $50 off with
free shipping only for a limited time houses are filled with dust bacteria allergens and so forth
with this purification system alexa pure breeze you can remove up to 99.97% of airborne toxins
and contaminants it's a game changer comparable units cost as much as 800 we're bringing it to
you for a special $50 off with free shipping look into this and know you're contributing to the
info war to get the truth out there about what's happening in our world and what the difference
is between a fake future and a real future for all of us products at info wars store
dot com the alexa pure breeze air purifier $50 off with free shipping for a limited time
so i was talking about d whit clinton before the break and how he masterminded and envisioned and
pushed forward this fantastic thing called the eerie canal in 1825 well he did something else in
new york if you've ever been to Manhattan you know it's a grid it's laid out as a grid the avenues
go north and south first avenue second avenue third avenue fourth so forth some with names most
with numbers and the streets across 14th street 15th 16th 17th 23rd etc etc all the way up to the
top of Manhattan well in the early days of Manhattan most people lived at the bottom and
when you look north what did you see hills valleys forests and so on and so forth how would you
build a city there a metropolitan city such as new york became d whit clinton said this is what
this is what we're going to do we're going to take the area the uninhabited area north of where
people are living and we're going to flatten it what yeah we're going to flatten it we're going to
carve away all those hills everything and we're going to make it flat and we're going to build a
giant city there now some people say oh my god that's horrible whatever whatever whatever but this
is how the magnificent achievement called new york city Manhattan developed that's how it was done
and again all the little scurrilous creatures were trying to nip at his heels and say this was
insane and you couldn't do it it couldn't be done he said it's going to be done and it was
and that's why Manhattan is pretty flat and that's why the city extended north of where it was
and that's how this magnificent achievement called new york city came to being achievement
the young do not hear this word the way it used to be heard it's not taught the way it used to be
taught this is what comes out of freedom real freedom and this is what terrifies the controllers
who want to make this planet into a machine in which the humans are machines achievement
your achievement my achievement every individual's achievement okay so you've heard a great deal now
about the secret house memo and what it contains and what it might contain and what happens if it's
released and so forth and so on well there's a secret another secret memo which i call for
purposes of discussion the secret medical memo this is a blockbuster but the funny thing about
it is is that it's not secret at all it's open information the information is already been
published in open journals it's there it accuses by implication one of the biggest agencies of the
federal government several actually of mass murder and yet nothing has happened the medical memo
story number two i'm going to read from my piece today why the fda should be charged with murder
if you work for a federal agency that was killing people at the rate of a hundred thousand a year
every year like clockwork and if you knew it wouldn't you feel compelled to say or do something about
it i think i can assure that 99.999% of the people listening to this program would say you bet
absolutely and yet the people who are committing these crimes do not feel that way at all they
are not like you or me they are different smoking guns on the memo open secrets in the literature
i don't usually make the citations on air but i'm going to just to show you that it's there
bmj british medical journal online june 7th 2012 author gene lenzer
refers to a report by the institution institute for safe medication practices quote it the report
calculated that in 2011 prescription drugs were associated with two to four million people in the
us experiencing quote serious disabling or fatal injuries including 128 000 deaths
prescription drugs associated with that in 2011 the report called this quote one of the most
significant perils to humans resulting from human activity and quote it's quite a smoking gun would
you say and the final dagger the report was compiled by outside researchers who went into the fda's
own database of serious adverse medical drug events otherwise known as death and destruction now
therefore you can't say that the fda the food and drug administration was unaware of all of
this of course they have been aware of all of this in fact they are the agency the only agency
in america that approve medical drugs for public use if you don't get their seal of approval you
can't sell your drugs in america they approve as safe and effective
128 000 deaths a year from the drugs they approve we'll have more after the break this is john
mafiport sitting in for alex in the fourth hour at infowars
the answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses
individual share amounts begin at 107 a month and 347 for families choose from three health
sharing programs holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount
programs available for dental vision and pharmacy go to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on
call dot org it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a
water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get
the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive
five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky
water filters dot com that's 187799 burky proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body
functioning at optimum levels up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the
recommended amount of b vitamins we need every day up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day
secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin b12 for optimal absorption up up optimal absorption
being deficient in b vitamins can cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy secret 12
up up up optimal absorption b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your
intercellular processes b vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the
brain and nervous system up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b12
intake head to info wars life dot com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12
that's info wars life dot com info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing
this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in france noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experience less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose
itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production they began studying the effects in public trials
in their public trials now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable
tablet just chew two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block
starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you
breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at info wars life dot com
or by calling till three triple eight two five three three one three nine frank in north carolina
thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah i just have to say something man it seems like every
time i turn on your broadcast your bragging it just gets old man i'm gonna shut you down right now
okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you understand they're having congressional
hearings trying to shut us down do you understand i'm ringing the alarm if that was happening to
anybody else i'd be freaked out i mean what's it gonna take us being shut down is that what you
want frank you know what i was gonna put him on pause again hey frank do you understand it's not
bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under attack we need your help as much begging
as i do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this i'm not gonna just stop growth
and let them start pushing us backwards you understand i need your help frank i need your
help frank go to info wars store dot com right now and help fund the info do you understand i
need your help frank free press needs your help frank you're listening to the alex jones show
you
live from austin texas and the heart of the resistance is alex jones on the gcm radio
so
john map report here in the fourth hour sitting in for alex the products at info wars store
dot com info wars life dot com to say they fund the info wars it's a very simple thing to understand
you get the products that you want for your health you support the operation that gets out the truth
that stands on the frontier
of the takeover against that takeover beyond that takeover by people who want to put you into
the collective on a physical level on a mental level on a spiritual level that's their war
the info war is about freedom it's about achievement it's about a better future for
real not the fake better future that's being sold to everybody by the controllers so whenever you
buy a product at info wars store dot com you support that that's what you're supporting
that's what it's all about so let me continue now with the secret medical memo which is not
secret at all because it's been out in the open all this time for some reason the mainstream press
just doesn't report on it wow what a shock huh and for some reason the federal government
doesn't do anything about it even though they're responsible for what a shock right
and isn't it interesting that the medical destruction that i'm talking about here
is part and parcel of a cartel the medical cartel that is one of the strongest if not
the strongest arm of that movement called globalism because if you are going and i never get tired of
saying this to take over a planet you need to find a way to weaken the enemy from within
to confuse disorient debilitate destroy weaken and that's what the effects of all of these
medical drugs that i'm talking about are in the secret medical memo so let's go to the next
citation dr barba starfield july 26 2000 journal of the american medical association she was at
the time a revered health public health expert at the johns hopkins school of public health
mainstream credentials up and down the line i like to quote these sources why i understand
that independent researchers peg medical destruction even higher than here quite a bit higher but
when i quote mainstream meticulous medical sources the government can no longer deny
and say well it's just people on the fringe no they're not they're people in the heart of the
establishment who blew the whistle dr barba starfield july 26 2000 journal of the american
medical association her conclusion in a review called is u.s health really the best in the world
that's the citation the medical system in the u.s fda approved pharmaceutical drugs kill
106 000 people a year in the u.s or a million people per decade that's called destruction
serious destruction
so what's supposed to happen in order to get the fda to do something or to get a sitting president
to simply say here are the crimes we are going to fire everybody there fumigate the buildings
and start over because this is an ongoing riko murder machine that's what it is
do people have to take the corpses of their families the hundred thousand a year and drag
them to the door of the fda and say you approved the drugs that are that killed my mother father
brother sister cousin child is that what it takes
maybe maybe now as i write in this piece if instead of these medical drugs killing people
suppose the hundred thousand deaths per year were led by ginkgo ginseng vitamin d niacin raw
milk what do you think would happen i'll tell you what would happen seals delta four swat team
snipers predator drones tanks and infantry would be lining up and hovering outside every
health food store nutritional supplement company in america that's what would happen
if instead of virtually zero deaths from any of those or any other nutritional supplements
we're talking about a hundred thousand at minimum a conservative estimate killed by fda approved
correctly prescribed medicines in america every year every year
okay you think that's all no there's more there's more there's more to the secret medical memo
and i'll give you the quotes first and then i'll give you the source
appropriately prescribed prescription drugs are the fourth leading cause of death
about 330 000 patients die each year from prescription drugs in the us and europe listening
europe i know we've got lots of listeners there they the drugs cause an epidemic of about 20 times
more that would be 6.6 million per year hospitalizations as well as falls road accidents and about
80 million per year medically minor problems such as pains discomforts and dysfunctions
that hobble productivity or the ability to care for others that's not minor
deaths from over medication errors and self medication would increase these figures
in other words and now i'm talking the 330 000 deaths per year the 6.6 million hospitalizations
per year and the 80 million medically minor problems per year all of this stems from correctly
prescribed medicines and these quotes come from the american sociological association
publication called footnotes in its november 2014 issue the article is the epidemic of sickness
and death from prescription drugs the author is donald w light donald w light is a professor
of medical and economic sociology a founding fellow of the center for bioethics at the
university of pennsylvania in 2013 he was a fellow at the edmund j sapra center for ethics at
harvard he is a low key visiting professor at stanford university and a fellow of the royal
society of medicine in other words this guy has mainstream credentials up and down the line as
far as you want to go and that's what he's saying those are the deaths and destruction
numbers of the medical cartel in the u.s and europe and he or any of the other sources i've
just quoted none of them are talking about vaccines they are just talking about medical drugs
more when we come back from the break john rapaport sitting in for alex
i'm so excited the new product at info wars life dot com in a glass bottle two months
servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red pill this is a heart and brain
pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's
beyond that quite frankly i just went off what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients
but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formula
and i came up with our own formula working with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right
here in america 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglinone to it which is
the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store dot com and your purchase fuzz the
operation you know i've got some talking points here about caveman from info wars life dot com
but instead of going on those talking points let me just give you what i've experienced personally
from all the wives tales in every culture we know that the bones have the essence
we know chicken noodle soup it's great for people that are sick again in every culture
this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is but the
amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is
in this is incredible ladies and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your arteries
and your veins whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and gentlemen is the
strongest most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing find out for yourself
today at info wars store dot com what you do for your family and again i want to thank you all for
your support you are funding the information war in 2018 you deserve a deep restful sleep with knock
out by info wars life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as
valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knock out packs a powerful
punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the
pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info
wars life dot com secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists
to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin
mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life
we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many
others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for
maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and
this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived
or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured
you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot com and vitamin
mineral fusion take action now before we sell out you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance you're listening to the alex
jones show and now your host john rapaport here we go in the last segment here john rapaport
sitting in for alex i want to just uh from the secret medical memo i just want to repeat a few
figures here this is the last citation that i gave you from donald light
they the drugs appropriately prescribed 330 000 patients die each year from prescription drugs
in the us and europe do the math what does that turn out to be per decade 330 000 per year
here sounds like uh three approaching three and a half million to you just move the decimal points
quote they the drugs also cause an epidemic of about 20 times more that would be about
6.6 million per year hospitalizations as well as falls road accidents and about 80 million per
year medically minor problems such as pain discomforts and dysfunctions that hobble productivity
or the ability to care for others that's like a roadmap to how do you destroy a country or a
continent let's see how can we do this well we can say it's medicine i mean we've already invested
billions in promotion pr and propaganda to assure the public that the medical people are only doing
good and doing better at doing good all the time that that's all that's happening in the medical
cartel so we can simply piggyback on that and we just say that we are building a better world well
in fact and here we would be listening in at the highest levels of conversation we are actually
infiltrating all of these countries and as you can see by these numbers wreaking havoc and
destruction and death and maiming and turmoil emotional loss and so on and so forth on a scale
that is just absolutely unbelievable under the noses of the public the press the government
so what have you everybody and it's being completely ignored and yet it's right out in the open
and we would even publish occasionally articles reviews that would indicate what the story is
is that just disappear and go away that's what's happening
that's what's happening that's what prompts some people to say the biggest secrets are out in the
open so the secret medical memo that i just revealed to you as i said is from open sources
right out there in the literature in the mainstream literature didn't have to go down into some
subterranean cavern with goblins and present some kind of a amulet to secret sign to get the
dusty volumes from past centuries medical journals sociological journal it's right out there right
there majority people look at that and they say well i know what i just read i think but of course
couldn't be true or i must have misread that or i don't even want to think about i what i just read
imagine a doctor reading this right you know he's in the brotherhood he's in the society
of Hippocrates from ancient times first do no harm and he reads this 300 thousand 330 thousand
deaths from approved correctly prescribed medical drugs in the u.s and europe every year
here and millions more maimings and destruction you know i didn't read he's gonna say i i i never
saw it never saw it never read it never heard of it that's how secret it can become you just hold
it up and say here it is and people go what happened i don't know let's you know
no what's on television no here it is
that's the secret medical memo now if you want something to do imagine what might happen
if by say next week a million more people than right now knew the facts that i just presented
to you if you participated in getting the information that i'm just giving you right here
out in the open and a million more people became aware of it and some fraction of those
million would pass that on to others and that ripple would keep on going and going and going
and going and then the next time it's brought up the same thing and more another million people
or so would become aware of it and of course some people say well it doesn't matter if they're oh yeah
it does matter it does matter don't be so cynical it does matter how do you think we got to where
we are now because people are waking up how do you think it happened that the major media are in
such chaos and disarray and so desperate do you think that was just a ploy on their part
let's pretend that we're completely insane for the next year or two you know there's a meeting
and cnn i've got a great idea says jeff zucker the head of cnn and we're all going to pretend
that we're insane and and then people will say these people are out of their minds i'm not going
to watch them anymore no no no no all this happens because people get out the information
and other people understand it and they go to true sources and they desert the fake sources
this is real this is not some dream an illusion this is happening now so i've just given you
you the secret info of the secret medical memo why not get it out there why not let people know
what's actually happening in the words of mainstream medical doctors researchers investigators
analysts those are the people i've been quoting here those are the people i've been quoting
why not get that information out i've been writing about it for a long time
it's there it's there the journal american medical association it's there in other journals
british medical journal let's have a field day with it let's expose this arm of the globalist
takeover for what it is the infiltration of societies in order to debilitate destroy and weaken
and confuse the people and some of you say well it's just an accident you see it's not on purpose
okay you want to say that but what happens if the medical professionals the medical leaders
the medical bureaucrats the medical chiefs in charge become aware of this accident and do nothing
about it not just for a day or week or a month or a year but decades they do nothing about it
what does that tell you they know it and they do nothing where did i start all this i said
suppose you were the head of this agency that was approving a safe and effective medical drugs
year after year after year that we're killing like clockwork hundred thousand thousand people
a year or a million people a decade and you became aware of it what would you do well you know what
you would do but the people who actually are in charge are aware and they have done nothing
and that tells you that they're guilty as charged and they continue to be a protection
racket for murder and destruction what else would you call it try to tap dance around this if you
can try to find a way to exonerate them excuse them you can't but to talk with you see you next
time john rappaport for info maximize your potential and take your body back with super
male vitality we're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male
vitality our ultimate non-gmo formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals in full wars life
wants to bring you the highest quality products our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality and energize your life
take control of your body grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info wars life.com
that's info wars life.com
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot
of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you
choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info wars store.com
number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so
easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month just go to info wars store.com
select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to
send you another order as you know i coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature
at info wars life.com this is a sure win 10 off on auto ship win win win at info wars life.com free
shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up
for auto ship you're listening to the alex jones show
