Waging War on Corruption, Alex Jones Well, the U.S. Senate is set to vote any time
now.
Of course, they're late on the government shutdown that we're now into what day four
of. And I've analyzed this. It's not hard to analyze. It's an absolute fact. It's the
Democrats that voted to shut the government down. It's the Democrats that are basically
globalist holding the country hostage, saying we have to acquiesce the border being completely
open or all evil, horrible racist. And that dovetails with the one thing that can get
me stuck at my computer or my television for four or five hours, not movies, not dramas,
not Netflix, binges. Don't do it. Other than on the treadmill or the elliptical that I
might watch an hour of a show. I spent hours yesterday and hours this morning. I didn't
have, but still it was very informative. Watching footage shot in Austin over the weekend, footage
shot in LA over the weekend and footage shot in New York. I was watching live fees. I was
watching archives of it. And then the crew uploaded like 50 videos or something yesterday
that they hadn't been able to get up. And I'm watching these. We're not cherry picking leftist
at the Women's March spitting on women. We're not cherry picking people running up to Millie
Weaver interface and farting on her grown men. This is hour after hour after hour of a lunatic
asylum. You don't go out to conservative rallies and get treated like this. I mean, the mentally
ill scumbag KKK doesn't act like this. These people are certifiably nuts. And it's beyond
Trump derangement syndrome. We also noticed hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cups
and we went up and videotaped them in both cities and it was all extreme soy latte.
These are men addicted to estrogen. It's bizarre. It's chemical. And again, people say, Oh,
well, some employers live products say may contain soy. That's because it's in factories
that have it. And they use some of the protein from that and rice on the conveyor belts so
that things don't stick as an anti clotting agent. And that's regular soy and it's microscopic.
What they put in the modern soy products is they take the whole soybean and the core of
its pure plant estrogen and they process that and then you get that you're not supposed
to eat that. You could eat some soy on your diet. Occasionally, you know, I'll get some
pure tofu and eat it in a stir fry or something. It's all part of a balance. We're meant to
eat some plant, some plant estrogen. That's normal. There's also testosterone and stuff
in meat and other hormones. So it all balances out, but not when these men are addicted to
it and they talk about how they're addicted to it and they're obsessed on it. So we're
going to play some of these videos coming up today as well. But also these people don't
look well. Black, white, Hispanic, it doesn't matter. They look like goblins. And we discovered
more horrific goblin creatures. The women act like goblins. The men act like goblins.
And it's getting worse. So that's all coming up. Also, I cut a little song this morning.
I'll be ready today to go with Conan O'Brien's big report that's on infowars.com. It's totally
blown up his face spectacularly. Conan O'Brien claims Haiti is beautiful after visiting Luxury
Tourist Resort. It's in between a mountain ridge and it's still dangerous. He went in
for a photo shoot, got in the water, nose keeps his head well above it though. Just guarantees
a couple of little turds floating by. And he then said it's wondrous and not a crap
hole. By the way, I talked to aid workers, you name it. My crew's been there doing aid.
I mean, the locals call it a, you know what hole, because people crap all over the ground.
Like Calcutta's a hole. Some areas of India are great. Some areas of Mexico are great.
Some of them are holes. Not this bad. But North Korea is a hell hole. But the virtue
signaling of Conan O'Brien has blown up spectacularly in his face. We're going to put his image
to video and shot in Haiti. It's going to be really powerful to get ready.
Introducing Cell Force by Infowars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular
engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria.
Much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100%
efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that
aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Infowars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We now take you live to the year 2018. January 22nd. On a Monday transmission, the United
States is locked in a bitter information-based civil war. Powerful global banks are attempting
to ban free speech and are forming paramilitary brigades to go out and intimidate citizens
that dare show up on the street. World government is in major decline, as world populations
discover that it is an unelected, secret, transhumanist, anti-human, eugenics-based
technocracy combine. I'm Alex Jones, your host. This is not science fiction. This is
not a drill. This is present space-time. Look at this headline. Europe moves ahead with
Internet censorship. Enforcement as more platforms join. Google, Facebook, Twitter are all announcing
that they will ban anyone criticizing Islam in any way or reporting crime. Next to Shang,
Shang mother and father will not be allowed. I'm not joking. It's being announced in the
streets. Someone may not have a mother and father. We're going to go into total cult
control. And then at your work or your business, you will be intimidated. You will be demoted.
You will be fired. You will use the words they say. You will conform. You will submit
to the hive mind or you will be thrown out on the street. Now, they're attempting this
authoritarian takeover in the middle of once-free societies. It's not going to go well if people
simply stand up and say no. So that's coming up. Of course, right now, we can give you
some of the ambient noise. They're in the Senate chamber. They are milling about starting
their new vote on the government shutdown. Today would be day number four. So again,
we'll pull that up for TV viewers and radio listeners. We'll put that on screen.
Republicans in Congress who are willing to have that conversation and vote for that legislation,
they didn't do that. And so now if the government shutdown is being held hostage over the DACA
demands, which will then lead to further immigration discussions, it's because of that inaction.
It used to be Republicans and Democrats. There were differences, but the differences were
how you prioritize the most important things, how what you saw as being. So again, you've
got C-SPAN itself. Now, even editorializes, instead of letting you hear the background
vote, you were being told, I guess how bad the Republicans are because they, they aren't
letting the globalist and the UN plan to completely erase borders take place. So we'll follow
that as that unfolds, as that vote begins, supposedly going to begin shortly. And again,
we're going to be playing some excerpts today, but there's no way to do it justice what the
crew did in New York, in Austin and in Los Angeles. We had crews out in all three major
leftist fester points. And we went out and we videotaped live and also in HD, which we've
now uploaded the HD versions of just vicious, hateful, bullying, thugs, spitting on women,
men squatting and farting on women, women giggling and laughing, all acting very immature. Almost
all the men don't have jobs and they walk behind the woman and they've replaced stereotypical
gender roles and women wear vest and command everyone and tell men and women do not talk
to them. They're not real than people dutifully don't talk to us unless it's the occasional
somewhat alpha male, which attacks women and spits on people. See, this guy right here
just spit on a woman. Here's the guy farting on Millie Weaver. And again, it's hard to play
all this because there's just so much background. If you stop, we're gonna murder you. If you,
your family, strip your children, just like ravenous demons, like vicious dogs behind
offenses. The total desire, we're gonna control language. Your kids belong to us. We're gonna
force themoculate you. We're gonna force feed you GMO. World government. And they're
all on video going, we want no borders, no borders. But they'll set up walls to try to
not let people in. They'll block you getting into your event. And a lot of people were
physically attacked when Antifa showed up in New York at the night for freedom event.
And then Bradley Manning showed up. Bradley Manning showed up, formerly Bradley Manning,
Chelsea Manning, and came in to the event that Cernovich and, oh, and Shroyer and all
these other great people were there. James O'Keefe, the list goes on and on, Stefan Malinu.
And there's just all video of it. Oh, hi, how you doing? Great to see you. Welcome. Oh,
yeah, you want to speak? Oh, no, you don't want to.
Chelsea Manning then sends out tweets. These are horrible homophobic bigot scum. And I
came to face these vicious people, these pieces of trash. Anyway, you go outside, Antifa's
throwing urine, attacking police, attacking men, women, children, just screaming, yelling,
trying to beat people up. This is just footage in New York, the women's march itself. And
again, there's our reporters just trying to cover it being spit on. But at nighttime,
it's just frothing crowds trying to attack. Oh, hi, Chelsea Manning. Come on in. Hey,
welcome. And then Chelsea tweets out, I went and I faced down those white supremacist homophobes
scum myself. Yeah, you're like Conan O'Brien. He flew into one of the little isolated areas
you've got to get to by barge in between the mountains. I don't folks that have been there.
It's still real dangerous. There's like two little resorts in Haiti where it isn't totally
deforested and there's not open sewage everywhere. And of course, we've sent money and helped
and Trump spent millions sending in a whole bunch of doctors to do thousands and thousands
of eye surgeries and things that could really help people. But that doesn't matter. If you
just stole 2 billion, 97% of the Haitian money like the Clintons did, then you'd be good.
Or if you're like the one foundation, I guess it's called one because he gives 1% to the
African and Caribbean charities, you know, because you show black people at a YouTube
concert on international television and say, send your money, whites, virtue signal and
they send the money to Bono who keeps it 99%. And then he virtue signals. But that's okay
to rob their money. We just send in plain loads of food and reporters that give 100%
of the money we've made directly to them, not because we're virtue signaling, but because
we're actually trying to illustrate what's going on. But see, that doesn't matter that
we land on grass airfields the day the hurricane left and someone died taking off in that exact
airfield that day. It doesn't matter that evil whiteies were there dying. If they would
have just gone and drank out of a coconut and, you know, and don't get too close to
black people, he's about 50 yards away, recorded to Conan, you know, because he, I think you
should get close to him, but he's a liberal friend. He doesn't get too close. And there
is about 50 yards away for his nice photo op in and out, the one spot you can get into.
No doubt arm guards on the beach. Boop, boop in and out, drink your coconut and say Haiti
is truly a beautiful country. Hashtag Conan Haiti. And it's all been taken over, putting
him in images on infowars.com where he actually would be if he was actually in Haiti, looking
at what's going on and go to our story on infowars.com. We can scroll through it and
see where Twitter sphere on the internet has gone. Absolutely crazy taking Conan O'Brien's
photo and photoshopping it into the supposed lovely scenes is just go, I guess go camera
shot right there. Yeah, we can show folks. There it is. And so people photoshopped him
into real themes there in Haiti. So I suggest everyone go and see that for yourself. And
that is exactly what Haiti really looks like. It is unbelievable. Now, as best I know, Sean
Penn, who wants to be our savior actually does give time and money to Haiti. We tried
to go to Katrina and his boat sank. He couldn't even make the boat work. Well, he goes there
and he walks around with a gun, by the way, with a Glock on his side. And I told you,
I've talked to Sean Penn before. The guys literally brain dead. I mean, he's probably
got about a 75 IQ. So he doesn't talk. Everybody just stands around and goes, Oh, you're so
smart. Hollywood goes, he's the genius. He's like, Oh, just totally stupid. Hey, but there's
some real footage for TV viewers. Is this where Conan O'Brien went? No, he just tells
you everything's fine in Haiti. Everything's good. How dare Trump actually try to help
Haiti. We just stole all their money. Then it'd be okay. This is Dan Pilla. Do you have
the IRS money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for
over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you to I wrote the book on IRS settlement
and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case. Call 834 no tax to finally
get free of IRS debt with the IRS's new programs. There's never been a better time to solve
your problem. Call 834 no tax. That's 800 34 no tax or my website, Dan Pilla dot com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families. Choose
from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See
guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org. Heart disease is on the rise. Clawed arteries, high blood pressure
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you. The symptoms are there. Loss
of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just
a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is
making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has
normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract
to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two-month supply
today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and
body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you
can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best
tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet. For more than a decade, my favorite coffee
has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their
unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans
in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic
coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without
the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this
is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas
Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going
to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout
by infowarslife. Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such
as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people
around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life, we need
to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout
packs. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show. Discover trends and global developments years
before they happen right here on the Alex Jones Show.
This is going to be an incredible week. Got Davos kicking off. We're going to have President
Trump there. We've got Mainstream Headlines Newsweek. Kill Trump with his own weapon. Protesters
march against President ahead of Davos. Kill Trump is the name of the march and there's
Newsweek promoting it. Davos 2018, Donald Trump delivers special address at World Economic
Forum despite protest. And they're using the right wing to attack Trump. Just like they
said, he was going to sell us out on DACA. He didn't, of course. They're saying, oh,
he's going to Davos. He's a globalist. No, his actions are killing globalism, returning
power to America, killing TPP, renegotiating NAFTA and GATT, not doing one-sided deals.
And you already see the economy roaring back. And that's what this government shutdown is
all about, was for the one-year anniversary of his election to not have it be the incredible
oxygen that's come back into the room, the big, deep breath of fresh air of hundreds
of billions of dollars paid to workers in bonuses and pay increases, the military getting
paid increases, 26,000 in the stock market, thousands of companies moving back, the massive
tax cuts, the corporations coming back, Apple coming back. Apple's announcing major moves
back here and high-paying jobs under U.S. regulations. It won't be suicide nets and
forced abortion and drugging the plant workers. It'll be actual Apple factories. Sure, it
won't be perfect, but it'll be high-pay comparatively. And the announcement they've made is $350 billion.
That was Tim Cook last week. Look, I got to stop right there. They just don't want a discussion
of this, as I said last Friday. And that's what Mulvaney, White House spokesman, says
Democrats shut down government to avoid talking about Trump's success. Instead, the Schumer
right now, they're about to vote the Senate. And they say, oh, tune in at 11, central.
And then they make you sit there and wait while Schumer and the Democrats, those old
evil racist mummies who use race-building control people, that use third-world labor
to drive down everybody's wages. I mean, the Democrats have three times the money of the
Republicans if you stack the wealth up. Just in the Congress, in the House and Senate,
look it up. They've done the math of billionaires. Did you know that 99 percent of billionaires
are quote, liberal worldwide? They're not liberal. They want global government to control
people and to get people dependent so that they don't know how to take care of themselves.
So this is what's happening. And as Mulvaney's pointed out, Trump isn't demanding a bunch
of stuff. He's ready to compromise. He isn't weaponizing things saying, you give me exactly
what I want because I have the trifecta, or I will do whatever I want. No. They had a
deal to legalize 800,000 people. That's what he said back in the campaign. You've lived
here for 20-something years. You don't have a criminal record. You were here when you
were a young person. We'll make it faster for you to be a citizen and we'll make it
faster for everybody. But the Democrats want it super hard to become a citizen so that
you're a permanent underclass day control. But it's blowing up in the Democrats' face
right now. So they're starting to say, okay, maybe we will end the shutdown because America
sees through it. And I see a lot of hope happening. Zucker was fired at CNN last Friday. And
as we told you four months ago, he would. Roger Stone had dinner. They're always accusing
Roger of having dinner with the Russians or made up crap. He had dinner with the people
and was told it's a done deal. He is gone by January of next year and he's gone. And
suddenly seeing in over the weekend on three different shows, this is coming up in the
next segment. They might just play it now. Said Russia Gate is over. Everybody's sick
of it. They're tired of it. It's not real. You talk to people out in the middle of the
country and they're tired of it. They see the economy coming back. There's a real sense
that it's really going to come back this time. Well, guess what? This whole country was built
on bubbles. China has bubbles five to ten times bigger than ours, with more government
money put in. We're just simply having a bubble for the people now. And that's a lot better
than a total implosion. And I started to look at everybody out there, promoting that
America is going to implode and that bubbles are bad, but they're all riding the Chinese
bubble and invested there. Oh, and I forgot to mention it. The Communist Chinese are all
over the news. Citing with the Democrats in our internal politics, saying the shutdown
shows America's economy is bad and we're not going to come back on and on and on. And they
lower their taxes to zero to counter Trump's tax cuts to 15 percent for corporations. And
they're involved paying off all our major universities. That was even in the Washington
Post last week and Twitter in internal videos admits they take orders from the Chinese government.
They have direct managers that take directives from the people's party over there, which
is an unelected group of dictators, an oligarchy. You can't make this up. China is in our business,
folks. They're in their own people's business. You're a Buddhist. They catch you practicing
that in your house. You're going to a work camp until somebody wants your organs and
you're going to be harvested. But that's liberal. The left would sit there and rip the livers
out of those Chinese women and just shove them in their fat mouths if they could. I'm
telling you, the left loves power. Raw evil. And they get every sycophantic, cowardly scumbag
who wants to have a piece of the power to get in there and screw everybody over till
the automated technocracies in place. And these idiots and all these underground Twitter
videos, Project Veritas, all go. We're putting an automation now and it'll be much easier.
You won't be there anymore, dumbass. It's going automated fool. So again, Trump's gonna be
in Davos in three days. We're going to be covering it all. I said I was going to send
a crew, but I just don't think I have the capital class, frankly. Don't hate, but the
people want to give us, you know, $20,000 to send a crew there. It's very expensive to
even get ends like $100,000. We'd be on the outskirts covering it. It'd be very important.
We should. I'm going to make the decision on the next few hours. Infowarsstore.com. When
we come back, I'm just going to blitz through tons of news. By the way, we just tuned in
your listing on radio. Even the New York Times admits China is controlling Facebook,
Twitter and YouTube. I mean, it's just unbelievable. And then they get up there on Congress and
say, we're shut Alex Jones down at lunch. He was number one on Twitter. Paul Watson was
number one and they have hearings going good. You shut him down more. And then I've got
right here. Europe moves ahead with internet censorship enforcement as more platforms join.
They say any form of conservatism, nationalism will be shut down or Europe is going to find
the Germany, France, you name it, millions of dollars per infraction. You report that
a Muslim killed somebody. You're not just going to get arrested. They're going to get
fined and they have actually hired the former Stasi in Germany. This is mainstream news.
Former Stasi captains and Lieutenant colonels in a spy operation. That's super high to run
it, to run it. I mean, you cannot make up the full magnitude of this evil hitting us
between the eyes. But the good news is we're fighting back and they're failing and they're
going to lose. But we need you to spread the articles and spread the videos and defend
the Republic and defend free speech everywhere and exercise it. I know you go out on the
street and Andy suspects on you and points guns at you. I understand they're going to
try to shut us down on the web and in the street. But believe me, they're going to get
their ass handed to them real soon. Hello, I'm Mike Lindell, the inventor of my pillow.
And like all of you out there, I had problems sleeping. Pillows would go flat. I would flip
the flop all night long. I would wake up with a sore neck, maybe a headache or feel like
I needed a nap even though I slept eight hours. When I invented my pillow, I wanted it to
where you can move the patent and fill to give you the exact support you need as an
individual regardless of sleep position. My pillow will get you into that deep REM sleep
faster and you will stay there longer. It's not about how much time we spend in bed. It's
about how much of that quality sleep we get. I do all of my own manufacturing right here
in the United States. I have a 10 year warranty. You can wash and dry my pillow and I give
you a 60 day money back guarantee so you have nothing to lose. And here's my best opera
ever. You can buy one of my pillows and get one absolutely free. Go to my pillow.com or
call 800-870-0305 and use promo code GCN. That's my pillow.com or 800-870-0305 with
promo code GCN. Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that
will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare,
a 360 win. Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on
your order at infowarestore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out
of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been
requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that
you need each month. Just go to infowarestore.com, select your favorite product or products,
click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you
know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping
on orders above $50. And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship. Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride
free products. Infowarslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver
designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint
oil or try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features
natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead
of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and
an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health
benefits. Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference
with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral
health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com. Frank in North Carolina,
thanks for holding so long. Go ahead. Yeah, I just have to say something, man. It seems
like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging. It just gets old now. I'm
going to shut you down right now. Okay. We're taking calls about your nomination. Do you
understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down? Do you understand
I'm ringing the alarm? If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out. I mean,
what's it going to take us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank? You know what,
Alex? I put him on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say
we are the tip of the spear. We're under attack. We need your help as much begging as I do.
We can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this. I'm not going to just stop growth
and let them start pushing us backwards. You understand? I need your help, Frank. I need
your help, Frank. Go to infowarstore.com right now and help fund the info. Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank. Free press needs your help, Frank. You're listening to the Alex
Jones show. It's 2018. Global government's here and it's collapsing. Defending the republic
from enemies, foreign, and domestic. It's Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting
worldwide from the infowarstore.com studios. Facebook, Google, Twitter, they're all working
with the EU and communist China to shut down free speech in their countries and here.
It's all mainstream news. They report in the New York Times like, is this a problem? Maybe
not. They're just mainlining it and Twitter, Facebook, and Google working with China have
created a global social score that they want to roll out with companies, government, and
their systems where if you don't comply and go along, it lowers your score where you're
literally unhirable and face-changing cameras on the street will alert the general public
who you are for shunning and physical attacks. This is their science fiction plan. It's in
their WikiLeaks, it's in their admissions. There it is, China's social credit system
will rate how available and how valuable you are as a human. And then they game that system
with supermods and it's over. This is the plan. They think you're going to comply with
the globalism and political correctness that they're going to ratchet up and up and up
all because you're going to be given access to the internet and access to these internet
gulags, these internet ghettos that Matt Drudge coined a few years ago here on the broadcast.
And they're doing it and then you go out on the street and you just look conservative.
They spend on local news here that a gay guy walks out of liberal and gets beat up. He's
a white guy by six black guys saying F Trump or if you're Alex Jones, you really get attacked
or if you're the Trump family or if you're anybody else or you just go out and try to
cover their women's march, they spit at you, they yell at you, they men run over and stick
their butt out in Millie's face and then engage in flatulence. And it's all arrested development,
very cowardly, very baby-ish, very stunkid, very out of shape, very bot-like, very genetic
disorder looking. I don't care if they're black, white, Hispanic, you look at these people,
they're ugly, they're stupid, they're hateful, they're truly are twisted. And then you've
got all the women, they're a mix but they're there smiling and solidarity feeling some
type of tribal power because they were given no tribe, no culture. And so it's women dressed
up like vaginas humping each other and just engaged in bad behavior, you know, naughtiness,
weird naughty and ignorant young people saying these people that are here are citizens under
DACA, they have a right to stay. No, they're not citizens. I can't go to Mexico or Germany
and just become a citizen unless I'm a Muslim. Childless cat ladies start cult against reality
and Trump, you know, there's one of the videos, here's the deal, we've got to take like 50
or 60, 70 of these videos, I'm not kidding, probably 70 or 80, more, it might be 100.
And they're all incredible and we've got to boil them down. The problem is you'll watch
a 15 minute video and it gets more and more and more and more and more insane. Women dressed
up as giant vaginas with sex toys hanging out of them, running around, acting insane
because that's all this is. It's not even street art, ladies and gentlemen. That's enough
for that. Let me start getting to some of these clips. It's just that they're here.
The censorship is here. It's all happening. And then here's the BBC. Fascist fighters
are criminals on the streets of Portland's Antifa group. And then it says they physically
attack people first. They call them Nazis if you're a conservative libertarian or Christian.
And they basically say in the report that they're good people. Here's another one. Europe
moves ahead with internet censorship enforcement as more platforms join. I've got all these
news articles here. I've got all of these reports. And I can't find my video list. Here it is.
So let me without further ado, start getting to some of these videos. The ones that we've
been able to bleep the cuss words out of. Here's rabid Trump supporter swings and spits
on female reporter.
No, I'm asking the info horse, man. What is a humanoid? You. What is a humanoid? I would
say probably you have a humanoid. Someone like you. What is the definition of a humanoid?
An ignorant dog like you. An ignorant dog like me. Do you know what ignorant means? Ignorant
means unaware of knowledge or lacking of a comprehensive attention. I'm asking you what
that is. Oh, I'm sorry. You're just a drunk. Look at this guy. Now he wants to get a lock.
He's getting pissed. I'm so mad. Look at how mad I am. I feel bad for you. I feel bad for
you. Look at you. You're literally foaming at the mouth. You look like a rabid dog.
I'm at the mouth because people like you are pinks. And you're everything that's wrong
with America. Pinks. You fucking for your followers. All you Zion pigs. All you racist
pigs. All you piece of shit. You're fucking for your. It's sad. Look at you. Look at you.
You piece of it. You can't even tell me the definition of a fucking word. You're uneducated.
I got a degree in engineering. I got it. No, you don't. No, you don't. You don't have
a degree in shit. You're a fake poser. You're a poser. You're a fascist pig. Hold this. Hold
this. This is amazing. So they're chanting lock him up. Here's the funny thing. If they
locked Trump up, the economy would crash. The stock market would crash. The voters would
be wide open and America would become a third world nation. That's what they want. It's
incredible. You realize you're an idiot, right? What did I say that's wrong, sir? I don't
really care what you said that's wrong. My point is that you're an idiot. So you have
no facts to base your statement. That's absolutely not what I said. And you're extorting an
info. You suck. You called me an idiot for no reason. There he goes. There he goes.
Yeah, there I go. There he goes. I'm not going to do anything. We're going to check that
because you're a coward. Where's he about to run away? No, he's about to leave because
I really feel like listening to holes like you. All right, put that on the air. Put that
on the air. We'll do will do. Thank you for that content. Don't worry, son, you can do
better than your father. This is the dress. So Wow. That was incredible. I mean, seriously,
Trump becomes president. All the stock markets hit record highs. The next clip, it's it's
so out of control. And there's this is just there's hours of this hour after hour of frothing
violent people that try to slap him and spit on him. And they talk about fighting hate
and all this stuff. And they're just like Nazis who project hate. And a lot of them
even know who Owen is. They don't see the flag on our microphone in fours. They see
the American flag hat. And that alone they hate. People are walking by by the thousands
and they see the American flag and they hate it. These people are the literal scum of the
earth. They think America isn't, you know, what hole must see cringe worthy outtakes
of Millie speech. Let's let's let's put the guy farting on her. Here it is. How's this?
Is he gonna fart? You farted at me? He farted at me. That's real audio. Oh my God. Old
man. Everybody's like arrested development that they all like mental patients. They're
in a mental patient delusional cult. These are the losers. And they hate the recovery
and they hate our military and they just hate everything. It is absolutely dangerous. What
a free society is created because it's created all these spoiled rotten babies. And imagine
the millennials. It's going to get worse and worse and worse. Unbelievable. Ladies and
gentlemen, please support the broadcast info or store.com. We've got the combo deal that's
got it in the next few days. You run out of X two and secret 12 the info wars life core
combo X two and the secret 12 40% off info wars life.com or triple a two five three
three one three nine. And don't forget pollen block. I was having a huge pollen attack until
I took two of them earlier. I'm so excited. The new product info wars life.com in a glass
bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top. The real red bill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what
I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription. But
they were charging people $100 $200 for the formulae. And I came up with our own formula
working with some scientists and developers non GMO made right here in America 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglin own to it, which is the precursor to all the
hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill now available at info wars store.com and your purchase of the operation over a
year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that if you
want proven studies and documentation, let me speak for hours on the files I have here
of what this is proven to do the ingredients in this. This is the ultimate immune system
boost for this time of year, anytime of the year, but immune wall is incredible and folks
other formulas that aren't even as good are $70 $80. It's a great deal at 39 immune wall,
beta glochens, olive leaf and so much more. It is concentrated. You need to go read what
is in here, the mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that
just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend. I mean, this is the next level. It's now available,
ladies and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal beta, glochens, olive
leaf and more immune wall info wars store.com info wars live.com or triple eight to five
three, three, one, three, nine.
Info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms by running
nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in published trials in their published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of the research
of fast acting chewable tablet, just two, two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress
and fast acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting pollen block available now
at info wars life.com or by calling toll free triple eight to five, three, three, one, three,
nine.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality. Our ultimate
non GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the
world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed to activate
your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. Info wars life wants
to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize
your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen live from the info wars.com studios. It's Alex Jones. Well, I told you
the Democrats were going to blink said it about 30 minutes ago because the polls show
they're getting their little globalist white supremacist tales handed to them. That's what
they really are. The racemakers, it just passed. The government's reopened 78 to 18 60 votes
needed to limit debate. Again, that's just some of the vote, though. There's usually
procedural votes. But so far they are blinking and blinking big time. We'll continue to
follow this because there's a lot of weird procedural stuff. And I've been busy covering
all the censorship and globalism and from about to go to Davos and all the rest of it.
But that's government funding through February 8. And of course, this will probably all
start back over again. But yes, 78 No is 18 needed to limit debate. And I think that's
just the debate to limit debate. I believe the vote's still going forward. Let's check
that right now. Let's not count our tickets till they're hatched. But that's so far.
They're not extending debate looks like they're choking. And the word is people are really
seeing through this. So we're going to watch this as it unfolds with shimmer off the side.
I'm just very, very pleased. So we'll we'll just see this as it goes forward. What a joke.
Oh, by the way, the ultimate plug here, let me get back to the news. I don't like taking
Zartec D or Clariton D for seasonal discomfort. All the pollen in Texas right now, they have
the Mountain Juniper. They call it Cedar. That's the redneck term for it. There's literally
clouds of yellow flying around. It makes me sneeze. I've had extra name it. Well, I didn't
bring a bottle of pollen block home over the weekend and the trees really dropped this weekend.
So it went from medium to extremely high. And I'm sitting here before the show, having
a total allergy attack. And Zach, one of the great crew goes Alex pollen block. Only takes
about 445 minutes to kick in help me last week. I went of course, got the bottle of
pollen block chewed up two of the tablets in my mouth. And my allergy attack is 90% gone.
And some would say, well, that's because you came back inside. I don't know. Once this
thing kicks off, it kicks off. It's major league alleviated because last week I was
having issues and when I started taking it every day. Incredible. Here's the great thing.
It doesn't make you feel like you're on speed. Doesn't make me bounce off the walls more
than I naturally do because it's Japanese quail, fed a secret diet that the French discovered
decades ago now patented. And we've secured it. We're bringing to you the discounted price.
Season loses comfort formula pollen block. It's 51% off technically because it's 1776
great deal for 3495. It's 1776. This is an amazing product. And almost everyone that
uses it gives it five stars. It is in so many studies up against all sorts of toxic stuff,
it just blows them away. And there's a bunch of science behind it. I'm going to cut an
ab in one of those actual scientists and experts on it, on what it does to the histamines.
But these birds are just in the pollen. They're in all the allergens. They're just out there
immersed in it. And whatever's going on when they eat a certain diet, that's secret. It's
all proprietary. We don't even know what it is. When you do that, you don't just eat
quail eggs and get it. It's got to be a Japanese quail, and it's got to be a special diet.
And it's incredible. And they just found locals found people eating it. In France, no longer
got the hay fever. So it's amazing what God's given us pollen block info wars life dot com
or triple a two five three three one three nine. This is going to end up being a huge
bestseller because it works for me. A bunch of the crew have the seasonal discomfort issues
with all the dust and the rest of it. It is just annihilated it. My nose is running like
a faucet. I sneeze 15 times driving here was sneezing in the studio. They go and I'm like,
Oh, I'm not going to take Claret and because it works too. But it makes me a jerk and they
go dude pollen block. It's like, I just have to get used to actually taking what God gave
us. Just when I take the X to when I take the secret 12 to secret 12 this morning, when
I do that, I have so much energy, so much for stamina, so much more focus, and it funds
the info war. Also, Alexa pure breeze. It is a four stage filter ionizer HEPA. You name
it with submarine technology. When I bought these from my house six, seven years ago,
they were $800. Another brand that isn't as good. Now they've all dropped as a menstruation
and factories to about $500. Well, this is normally 200 and is great deal. $50 off with
free shipping for a limited time only an info or store.com. So not 50% off $50 off. Excuse
me. $50. I'll say, Wow, I can't do that. I don't even make 50% on it. When we sell it
for $198, I think we make like $50. But it's it's $50 off. I guess they're going to loss
leader. So that's Alexa pure breeze. I can't believe that deal. So good. I didn't even
approve that. I'm just looking at this. I guess the factory producer must have given
us a good deal or something. I've never seen a deal that good. $149. You know, we first
started promoting this couple years ago was 300. It was a great deal at 300. But it's just
at cost is going down with technology as everybody knows, unless it's an iPhone. Those are like
$1,000. Now it's all just a scam. But anyways, Alexa pure breeze info or store.com or triple
eight to five, three, three, one, three, nine. Now, before I go any further, I've got to get
to some more of these clips here. Joe Gilbert's going to join us. We're going to play some
excerpts of his new film, the art of the insult. These an expert on communist and globalist.
We're going to get into any foot all the rest of it and take some of your calls next hour.
We're going to continue government funding through February 8 60 votes needed to limit
debate. So I believe that is a vote to limit debate. And then they're going to have the
main vote, but I may be wrong. I'll check during the break and give you the exact analysis.
But that's ongoing. We're going to follow that as that goes. Let's go ahead and play soy
lattes litter streets after women's March again. This is a drug deployed by like there's
good stuff. The mother nature. There's bad stuff. It's not just regular soy. These big
companies, particularly to make you addicted. Of course, it's out of Seattle and the whole
global feminization program of males. They take soybeans and crush the whole thing in
a process, turning it into sludge. You're not supposed to eat the core of a soybean.
So again, they're eating the cores of soybeans the way it's processed, which is pure estrogen.
And the men admit they're addicted. They freak out. They mean it's incredible. Women that
drink it can't get pregnant. So that it's really targeting them. Okay. It blocks fertility.
First thing they'll tell you is get off soy products, bunch of other stuff and get on
iodine. That's the major studies. Real iodine. But with men, it just wax them out, man. And
they're bouncing up and down off the walls. And there's just thousands of these cups,
hundreds where she's at. It's all soy latte, soy. She reads on the side, soy, soy, soy,
soy, soy, soy, because they made it pretty. They go, drink the soy liberal. And then they
all run out. And then once they've done it, they like it. So let's go ahead and show it.
I find it a bit ironic that after the Los Angeles Women's March, the streets are littered with
empty soy latte cups. That's right. Tons of Starbucks and other coffee cups littering
the floor. It's kind of funny. Notice what a bunch of dirty pigs these people are. If
you go to a conservative rally, it looks like the military police the area where the fine
tube comb on average. Hey, pick that up. Just saying. But these pigs, you know, it's anti
for science. That's, that's, that's the anti for site. You know, that has the full page
he has the New York Times are just littering everywhere, trash everywhere. And just look
at these people. They look like people escaped out of a mental institution. Let's go back
to them, chronic when all these feminist liberals are pushing for climate change and the world
is so populated that we all need to restrict our behaviors and daily tasks when they can't
even make the effort to throw away their coffee cups or their resist Trump signs. But notice
also that soy lattes have been linked with having estrogen mimickers and high amounts
of it. The theme here is that we see all of these empty soy latte cups here when we had
this ultra feminine feminist anti masculine anti patriarchy march here. It's no wonder
that you saw women dancing around in vagina costumes rubbing up against each other that
you saw extremely effeminate men walking around here at the March when they're all consuming
mass amounts of soy lattes. And who's going to pick up all this trash, right? Who's going
to pick it up? You know, these entitled feminists and liberals want the world to be theirs.
They said feminism is the future. Female is the future. Well, I hope the future doesn't
look like garbage filled all over the streets and soy latte cups everywhere. But like Haiti,
a crap hole where you got a bunch of poor people that just if there's two cows, go
ahead and just kill them and have meat tonight. Don't let them breed. Don't have 50 cows
and then have meat all the time and just cut down all the trees. The Dominican Republic's
right next door, gorgeous, beautiful, incredible. And then right over the border, Haiti is
deforested in a hellhole and its population is even lower because everybody stabs everybody
in the back. I mean, their national religion is devil worship. The devil doesn't deliver,
folks. The devil's for losers. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense
probiotics. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotics trains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the
public. So please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info
war.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me. And
it's a big day glow snake. Gats and snake. And then it's got the American flag infowars.com
on the right arm. I mean, that's a great way just to meet like minded people and spread
the word and also exercise free speech. And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt trigger
warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com
on the back. That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowarscore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, we're coming back on the vote in the Senate to turn the government back on.
That's still ongoing, but right now let's go this powerful John bound report. It's absolutely
critical. Well, it's after midnight and the votes weren't there to keep the government
running. It's been roughly five years since the government shut down. The Democrats point
their fingers at the Republicans demanding the protection of non citizen, non tax paying
DACA dreamers while American tax paying citizens are the ones who will be left in the cold.
I really believe that one week from now, we will have DACA on the books all of it hostage
over the completely unrelated issue of illegal immigration. It's almost as if you were rooting
for a shutdown. And now we'll have one. And the blame should crash entirely on President
Trump's shoulders. This will be called the Trump shutdown as the White House just indicated
the president's not going to talk about the issue at all while the government shutdown
may quite clear said when Democrats start paying our armed forces and first responders
will reopen negotiations on immigration reform. So this particular strategy has eliminated
the possibility of getting a signature on the thing that shut the government down over.
Anybody explained to me this strategy? I'm perplexed underlying the shutdown mess, the
release, the memo movement. Rolling Stone has ridiculed the suspicion of corruption,
writing the memo in question is a confidential four page document assembled by a stealthy
group of House Republicans led by Intelligence Committee chair Devin Nunes over the past
month. Surprisingly enough, they seem to have found what they set out to find, judging
at least from the dark and hysterical hints about the contents of the memo that right
wingers in Congress began to issue last evening. And the mockingbird media continues to stir
that pot. This meme that's breaking my Twitter feed this morning, what is this memo that
you guys are selling is so significant? It's a meaningful event, I'm telling you, and it's
so important to me and other members that not only members of Congress, but that we
declassify as best we can this information and provide it to you. What kind of information
is it? It's primarily dealing with the Department of
Justice and FBI and imagining this. Did they propose or provide information to the FISA
courts and was that information accurate? That's the essence of this. So you believe
you have proof that a judge allowed warrants in violation of the legal standard for those
warrants? I'm not going to elaborate on it other than
that. It's a pretty loaded suggestion though. I mean, this is a big, this is huge, but I
can't tell you why. Meanwhile, the inertia from those so-called
dark and hysterical hints are gaining momentum as the concern over the contents of the four
page classified memo intensifies. And particularly the authentication processes
that are laid out in the memo are of such fiction. They are so laughable that they would
never withstand scrutiny from the public. And what I'm worried about is that the cast
of characters identified in this memo is not a group of people who are gone. Many of these
people are still in our government. They still wield influence, and that's why we've got
to get this information out of the public. But you just said people will be fired at
the FBI and Department of Justice, right? And possibly worse. I think that there could
be people who could face criminal consequences as a result of the activities that are laid
out in this memo. And it's easy to see after reading this memo why Senator Grassley and
why Senator Graham wanted to refer this matter for criminal prosecution.
By releasing the memo and releasing the file, what it would reveal is the feds' reliance
on bad sources and methods. The American public deserves the truth. We should not hide the
truth from them. They've waited too long. Do not pull a wool over their eyes. Show them
the facts. They deserve nothing less.
A demonstration will now thumb their nose at what they perceive as President Trump and
the Republicans' failure to lead.
A champion in rallying those forces is our distinguished majority for the moment. Steny
Hoyer.
Whatever I have at any given moment, I'm pleased to be here.
But ultimately, the harebrained Democrats are mocking...
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead
of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is. But
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and
gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there. And it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com. What do you do for your family? And again,
I want to thank you all for your support. You are funding the Information War in 2018.
I'm not a liberal. I'm not a conservative. I'm an American. I'm a father. I'm a patriot.
I like free market. I like common sense. I like living in a free country. I saw these
memes online where they go, Jones loves our military now, but he used to think our military
wanted to put us in FEMA camps. I never said our military was bad or hated us. I said
under Bill Clinton and then under Bush and then under Obama, we got real government memos
and documents and training manuals from the military because they were patriots where
Obama was trying to train the military for gun confiscation. Every civil unrest. And
two and a half weeks ago, we got documents from inside Antifa and George Soros' Foundation
that they've not denied a real where it said we're going to cause a civil war. We're going
to stir up a race war in America so Obama can declare martial law in 2015, but that
failed. Then I got full page ads. They put the New York Times saying we're going to resist.
We're going to drive Trump out. And I see them trying to sabotage our economy in front
of everybody in a big way. And we go out to their rallies in Austin and Los Angeles and
in New York this weekend. We probably got close to 100 videos on infowars.com of men
spitting on women at women's marches, at men running over and farting on Millie Weaver
with their wives. I mean, we're talking like ripping, like three year olds. And everyone
acting like lobotomized children running around screaming, yelling, going nuts. I've asked
Kit or one of the other great crew members. I guess Kit's in New York. He's not back yet.
Kit Daniels, somebody to compile the 100 videos or whatever just to an info wars page where
it's just all there. Like, you know, the women's march total insanity. Words are not described,
but you've got to see it for yourself. And we weren't cherry picking. I guess they have
posted it. There it is. We were not cherry picking. That's just some of them. I haven't
watched the one where everybody's spraying the guy, whatever that is. And there's I don't
even see the footage here of at nighttime Antifa attacking everybody and trying to keep
people from going into a patriot event. And then Chelsea Manning goes in, everybody's
nice to her. And then she comes out and says, I confronted the white supremacist. It's like
make believe. It's like larping. It's like you're a kid. You imagine that your dad's
truck is a monster and you're fighting at the front yard with a stick or something. I
mean, it's like they work for the people that are race baiting. They work for the people
that robbed Haiti. They work for the people that are funding radical Islam to take over.
I mean, they're really bad people. Hillary Clinton said black people were preps super
predators. Hillary Clinton praise the Grand Dragon and the KKK, but they don't care. It's
about make believe and it's about a club they're in. And it's about them living in this open
free society. Almost none of them have jobs. And they march over to our camera people and
keep saying, we got to have DACA. These are citizens. They have a right to be here. There
should be no borders. What will explain to us how people that aren't from this country
are citizens. F U. I hope you die. And it's all just about signaling to each other that
they're they're cool. This is this is the kids that want to be cool in school. You know,
these people that were cool in school ended up not being cool. So they're they're uncool
and the folks that want to be cool, they're not cool either. What about folks you never
really heard about? You know, you know, those guys that everybody thought was like an undercover
cop, but they weren't, you know, he had a girlfriend that was in college or it's a woman.
She's already, you know, writing, writing her second novel. You find that quiet person
and then you see him, you know, driving off in their $100,000 car. It's not just their
wealthy. It's like, Oh, I published five books since you asked who I am. And I got to go.
I'm going to go hang out with some 30 year old people. That's that's what's really going
on at school. So you want to find those people because they're there and they don't want
to talk to you. Not because they're elitist. They just know you're an arrested development
person. I was hanging around with guys that, you know, had already been on four or five
tours in the military when I was 16 or 17, because they were fun and they were cool.
I was going to shoot in contests, you know, with the police and the FBI when I was 16.
That's what I was doing just because I was a good shooter. People invited me. That's
what I did. But see, I'm not arrested development at 21. I had a syndicated radio show by 30.
I was on over a hundred radio stations by 43. I'd helped elect the first American restorationist
president in history. Those aren't Braggs. It's just fact. He was the famous actor.
Plague Cowboys. It wasn't John Wayne. He was distributed. Who said no Bragg just fact. One
of those guys. And it's not bragging to say this. This is why we're under attack. This
is why they're after us. This is why they don't like us. We're coming back from break.
We're going to Joe Gilbert and his new film that we're selling at info or store.com. Trump,
the art of the insult, which he does after they attack him and where he uses the name
to properly name what they are sloppy Steve crooked Hillary. It's powerful. It's a must
see. It's coming up. It's at info or store.com. But before we go back to our guest here, I
wanted to just go ahead and get to one other clip here as they prepare to have the vote.
Everybody had a vote to limit debate. Now their grandstanding with Democrats are. We'll see
what happens. But I thought we should play this clip by Jeff Greenfield. When I watched
CNN, I expect indictment of Trump to be imminent. Shannon reporter admits no one cares about
Russia conspiracy theory. And so now that zuckers out as of last week, we broke that and told
you Roger Stone told you he will be gone by January. Said that four months ago. Next year's
news today. CNN has wrecked itself doing this. So you're going to see a little more sanity
come in. Now that zooker is gone. So now they're not going to be fired if they don't say he's
a Russian agent. Alex Jones is a Russian agent. George Soros murdered Hitler himself when
he was a Nazi collaborator. I mean, that's the type of, you know, upside down world stuff
they're putting out. So here is Jeff Greenwald. Here's part of that clip. Well, you know,
I remember talking years ago to a United States senator who would go home and watch Keith
Doberman when he was on MSNBC beating up Bush. I said, why do you do that? And I was told
it's like sinking into a nice warm bath. And I think on both sides of the divide, people
are sinking into nice warm baths to reconfirm what they believe. I mean, if the idea that,
you know, when I watch CNN sometimes, you know, I think I expect the indictment on Donald
Trump to be imminent because the focus on Russian collusion and that issue is very strong.
And if you turn on MSNBC, you're going to get pretty much a nightly dose of, you know,
the prosecutor's case against Donald Trump. That's Greenfield, Jeff Greenfield. So this
is going to how they're going to sneak out of this back out of this now. Oh, come on.
We're all in our own echo chamber. No, the economy's coming back. The borders getting
secured. Retirees are getting their future secured. Thousands of new factories are coming
back. Apple just announced 350 billion in new investment. The Japanese have announced
all total a trillion dollars in new investment. I mean, I'm not going to spend all our time
on this. That's reality. Free market delivers a place for a bunch of spoiled brats to bitching
and playing like the women's march. Free market delivers not communism, not socialism, not
command and control. It's a fact. And you know, it's true. I know our audience knows
that, but we're the people getting outside the bubble. It's why they're trying to censor
us everywhere. That's why they have to do that because we're the winners. We are carrying
the light in the dark of the night. Here is another CNN reporter now telling the truth.
That's Maeve Reston saying out in America, everybody's sick of this. Here it is. And
I think that that what's going to be so interesting to watch this year, one of the things that
I'm most excited talking to voters about is you are starting to see that uneasiness about
the economy sort of dissipate. Remember, even in 2016, when we went out to these swing states
and talked to voters, there was still this fear that things were suddenly going to turn
down again. You don't feel that as much anymore. And I'm so interested to see how the Russia
investigation affects things because so far out in these districts, when you talk to people
about Russia, and that's all we talk about at CNN, basically, they say they don't care.
It doesn't have any effect on their lives. Yeah.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve, life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10
year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified
water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. More incredibly
delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653.
Go Berkey.com. Hawaii was a wake up call. Don't be caught
without a disaster shelter. Atlas makes an all disaster shelter that will protect your
family from fallout, tornadoes and hurricanes for only $99.99. That also includes the NBC
air filtration system, solid steel construction with an airtight bullet proof door. That's
right for $99.99 and up. Call 1-855-4-Bunker or go to IWantThatShelter.com. Atlas Survival
Shelters, the world leader in fallout shelters. Hear that? That's the sound of a house being
trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will
be destroyed. This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com
and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV even when you're
miles away. Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant but not fearful. FakeTV.com. Introducing FloraLife, the new probiotic
line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife after years of research on the human microbiome.
Not all probiotics are made the same. FloraLife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery
system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet. FloraLife
supports your body's core where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity,
the gut lining and metabolism. Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located
in your gut? That's why. Increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
FloraLife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program. Head to InfoWarsLife.com to pick
up your bottle of FloraLife probiotics today. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Feel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWarsLife. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal
helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your
muscles. Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste, use Carnivore
by InfoWarsLife. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. We now take you live to the Central Texas Command
Center in the heart of the resistance. Rallying Patriots Worldwide. You're listening to the
Alex Jones show. Stand up and be counted for what you are about to receive. It's the bounty
of the free market and the renaissance and classical liberalism. Stand up and be counted
for what you are about to receive. We are the dealers. We'll give you everything you
need, which is you and your family with God, not the state, not the system. Joe Gilbert
joins us for the Balance of the Hour. At the end of the hour, we have something very special
for Conor and O'Brien, a little music video I put together because he's got a virtue signaling
in one little tiny area at a private resort in Haiti that's all heavily guarded saying,
oh, it's wonderful. No problems here when the whole island is a leftist money laundering
pit where they keep it in poverty on purpose. But that's a whole other issue. Here is the
trailer for the powerful new film available at InfoWarsStore.com. Trump, the art of the
insult directed by the amazing director, Joe Gilbert. Here is the trailer.
It's called Women You Don't Like Fat Pigs, Dogs, Slabs. Only Rosie O'Donnell. And they
said that wasn't politically correct. Who cares? You haven't been called. Go back to
your vision. I think Jeff is a nice person. He's very low energy. I'm not used to that
kind of a person. Throw him out. Throw him out into the cold. Don't give him their coat.
No coats. L-Y-I-N apostrophe, lion dead. I have never seen a human being eat in such
a disgusting fashion. The most dishonest human being. These people right here. Look at all
the cameras. So disgusting. This socialist, last communist. Crazy bird. He's crazy as
a midwife. Pocahontas. Very offensive. I'm sorry about that. Pocahontas. Crooked Hillary.
Crooked Hillary. She's been crooked from the beginning. Crooked Hillary.
Politicians are really dishonest. Yeah. Donald Trump alleges that my dad was involved in
assassinating JFK. They said nothing to do with me. Except I might have pointed it out.
This guy was sweating so badly. Thank God he has really large ears. The biggest ears
I've ever seen. Because they were protecting him. I'm trying to be nice. You know, I'm
working hard to be nice. He was begging for my endorsement. I could have said, Mitt, drop
DNAs. He would have dropped to his knees. He put glasses on so people will think he's
smart. It just doesn't work. You know, people can see through the glasses. I'll make three
or four major speeches. She makes a speech for 15 minutes. She goes home, goes to bed.
We live off Chinese manufacturing. That's because when you say we, you are stupid. Repeat after
me. Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency. That's
not going to happen. So help me God. Congratulations, Mr. President. We will make America great
again. Go home to mommy. Tell her to tuck you in bed. And your mother is voting for
Trump. All right, infowarstore.com. Ladies and gentlemen, get the new film. Very powerful.
In fact, I've already watched it with my children. And I've explained to them that the global
has teach you to lay down. And when you stand up, it's bad. We don't throw the first punch.
Verbally, physically, you name it. But when you throw the punch, when you do it, calling
him a misogynist and Nazi, well, you're crooked. Hillary or other people called him all sorts
of horrible names. And he's a counterpuncher. Well, so am I. And I will sit there and insult
these people all day long. I'm tired of laying down. What about you, Joe Gilbert? You made
a lot of amazing films. We carried them all. We sell them all. They're all groundbreaking.
But this one, this one is fine and very, very celebratory. So congratulations on what you've
done. It's really a special film. Thanks a lot. Look, I urge everyone, you got to get
this film in the info wars.com store. First of all, you'll laugh nonstop the whole time
but more importantly, there's a lot of important lessons. You'll see how middle America fell
in love with a Manhattan billionaire because he was the only one of the Republicans that
was willing and capable of standing up to Hillary in the leftist media complex.
Exactly. And he knew that we were talking like that at home.
Absolutely. And he did it. Don't forget with a mix of truth and humor. That's why it's
stuck. When Megan Kelly kind of started it off, she accused Trump of calling women fat
pigs, slobs and disgusting animals. He answered, only Rosie O'Donnell. And people laughed
and laughed.
Maybe a week later, Jorge Ramos kept interrupting him at a press conference and Trump said,
as you saw in the trailer, go back to Univision. Now, people are thinking, go back to Mexico.
And this is why he got so much heat and he didn't apologize. Trump never apologized and
that's why-
Well, imagine if you were a U.S. reporter in Mexico City, in somebody's face, telling
the Mexicans what to do. They'd say, go back to, go back to El Norte, Yankee.
That's right. And Trump took everybody on one by one. And if you messed with him, you
usually didn't last in the Republican race more than two or three more weeks. And the
media couldn't stand up to him either. So this film, 95 minutes of nonstop laughter,
but you get to know Donald Trump. I thought I knew Trump. I studied Trump. I thought I
knew him.
Only when you see this all back to back, how he reacts from the heart. He speaks from
the heart. He said what he said, he meant what he said. Even if it's a little inarticulate
or doesn't quite make sense, people understood he was-
Oh, exactly. They say Trump's the fake. It's the opposite. And they'll kind of now admit
it behind the scenes. They go, this guy's crazy. He really believes all this.
Absolutely. And you'll see the genius of Trump. They say, oh, he's chaotic. He's just a, you
know, a sideshow. In fact, he controlled the entire media complex with very simple marketing
ideas. Started out with Jeff Bush, had $120 million in the bank. And Trump thought of
two words, low energy, low energy. And it was over. It was over because he branded him
with this kind of funny and kind of true concept. And he went after them one by one. So when
you see the film, you end up really understanding Trump as an authentic patriotic American who
will stand up for America and not take it anymore. And that's what people wanted.
And now one year later, they've got the government shut down to try to take away from the celebration.
But even the lefts come back to CNN and said, look, we're all over the country. Everybody
that's actually got their head in the real world, those Trumps, not even a conservative,
he's just the Americana guy, you know, free market guy. And people want the prosperity
and they're really sick of this.
Look, Trump started out as presidency. Usually you're given a seven month honeymoon. Trump
got about seven seconds and 2 million anti-democracy protesters took to the streets. They're back
at it today in the last couple of days. He's got the entire Democrat party and media complex
against him. And they use this term from the get go resistance. Now we know resistance
is a military term that was used by anti-Nazi partisans, by Hamas in the Middle East, Islamist
terrorists. And it's meant to lead people to violence in the Antifa movement. And that's
when we saw this, James Hodgkinson came out and tried to murder all the Republican leadership
when Steve Scalise was seriously injured.
What did they admit? I mean, even the New York Times said, here's where they need somebody
could attack this and take the leadership out. Front page.
This is what they're trying to do. Obama was using all kinds of messages, race-baiting.
The top 1% have got all your money. There's an evil boogeyman.
Remember, Obama told illegal aliens to vote. We're going to come back. Joel Gilbert's
our guest. The new film is a must see. It is hilarious and informative.
It's a no-brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransack the
place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away. Security is a mindset. And faketv should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant,
but not fearful. Faketv.com.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Visit InfowarsLife.com to secure your chemister. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable, great-tasting
multivitamin formula available. Vitamin Mineral Fusion Drink Mix at InfowarsLife.com is loaded
with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely
needs. In the history of Infowars Life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like
Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system
and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the
platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products. And this part is most important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest-quality
lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure. And rest-secured, you're
funding the tip of the spear in the Infowars. That's InfowarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral
Fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours, just on the
files I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this. This is the
ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, anytime of the year. But immune wall
is incredible. And folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80. It's a great
deal at $39. Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more. It is concentrated.
You need to go read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest-quality
mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate. A citrus peel blend. I mean, this is the next
level. It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal.
Take a look at olive leaf and more. Immune wall, m4warstore.com, m4warslife.com, or AAA-2533139.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from m4warsstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean, I
cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at m4warsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine. I think you cannot beat that
for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my
dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well. m4warslife.com, or AAA-2533139. And your purchase
of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against
the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are, and they
know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Hitler took the guns. Stalin took the
guns. Mall took
Stalin took the guns, Mal took the guns,
but El Castro took the guns.
Hugo Chavez took the guns.
1776 will commence again if you try to take our firearms.
The Republic will rise again when you attempt to take our guns.
I am sworn upon the order of God,
internal hostility against every form of tyranny
on the minds of men.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Joe Gilbert is our guest riding the shotgun for the rest of the hour.
More and more, the New York Times, the Washington Post,
undercover videos from Project Veritas show the Communist Chinese government,
the biggest mass murderers in history, trying to crash our stock market,
propping theirs up with government funding,
at least five, some say ten times what the U.S. government does,
involves censoring libertarians and conservatives and Christians online
through Twitter, Facebook and Google.
And it's all admitted.
I mean, these people, there is a Democrat Party alliance with Communist China.
They're financing the whole thing.
And I just can't believe it's all out in the news.
And then you've got Soros, the Nazi collaborator,
funding the anti-fa groups who are running all these demonstrations,
and they are the vicious most vile people.
I've been covering conservative and libertarian demonstrations for 23 years.
And only in the last six or seven did they turn into, like, demon zombies.
And there's literally close to 100 videos shot in L.A., New York,
and Austin over the weekend by our crew, who are very brave.
They want to go out and do this.
I don't even order them to go out anymore.
And these people spit on them.
They scream at them.
They say they're going to kill them.
Now, this guy says on the video, give me a cup of coffee.
I'm going to dump it on them.
So I guess that's the new thing is they don't just go F you, they dump coffee on you.
And then the New York Times, the Washington Post, I got BBC article here,
fascist fighters on the streets of Portland's anti-fa group, and they're just angels.
Well, they're going to attack you, but they're freedom fighters because you're the Nazis.
And see, they're the resistance.
Now, I use the term the resistance as we had a globalist government here.
And I called it information war.
But yes, it's war, like Gilbert said.
They are trying to censor us off the web and making the announcements.
While they try to censor us off the street where my own reporters went out for the young lady that got killed by the illegal alien and the
virtue signaling jury letter, the killer go, we just try to go cover the memorial service.
And then they had guns, communist flags, and they said, you're not coming in.
And the cops said, we've been told to stand down, just like in D.C., when they blocked us for hours getting in to hear the president speak.
And then folks went, hey, you got a VIP thing.
You just go right to the front.
Oh, anti-fa wasn't there, black lives matter, because that's what the Democrats were going in.
And they were coordinating with the D.C. police.
Later came out the news with the Maryland police.
That's what's in the documents, too, is they coordinate with blue cities.
Now, you talk about tyranny when you've got the police actively letting you attack people.
It's dangerous.
And imagine what they would have done if Hillary would have gotten in.
Joe Gilbert, the maker of the new amazing film that everybody used to get and support the Info War.
But it's something everybody's got to watch to remember all this.
It's just a celebration of how we got here to fight back against these tyrants with free speech.
Trump, the art of the insult, standing up to bullies directed by Joe Gilbert.
I added the part, standing up to bullies.
So, again, they're not used to this.
What are they going to do as they just keep ratcheting up the violence, ratcheting up the attacks, ratcheting up the censorship?
Where do you see the immovable object against the unstoppable force?
How is this going to end?
Well, look, let me first comment on one thing is that the Democrat Party today is a radical socialist party.
Most rank-and-file Democrats don't understand that.
Barack Obama is kind of the epitome of the story of how the radical socialists and communists took over the Democrat Party.
In the late 60s, Bill Ayers, Weather Underground, there were open calls for revolution, bombing police stations, murdering people.
And they said they were going to put 50 million Americans in reeducation centers and murder 25 million of them.
And this plan failed very badly because it was so evil.
When these terrorists came out of jail and out of the underground into Chicago in the 1980s, they taught the young group of radicals at that time, like Barack Obama.
You cannot overthrow the government from the outside. We were wrong.
Instead, you need to overthrow it from within.
Therefore, don't tell people about your Marxism and socialism. Keep it to yourself.
Just tell people you want to help families. You want to give them free healthcare.
And once you take power, you'll throw them under the bus and pursue this radical agenda that no one voted for.
And then you can use the tools of state to maintain power.
And that's what Obama did in 2012 by using the IRS to suppress the conservative free speech movement while the left was allowed to organize.
And then he interfered, apparently, in the 2016 election and tried to through the FBI and DOJ.
It's classical Marxist behavior because they cannot maintain power with their policies that are failures.
We didn't need Russian interference in either election.
We had our own Bolshevik in the White House in the form of Barack Obama.
Now, when you see the film Trump, The Art of the Insult, which you should buy in the Info or Store, please, Art of the Insult,
you'll see the simplicity of the message of just standing up to this fascism.
When Trump had all those rallies, like the Trumpopalusitor, he'd fly in.
And you'll see that in the film.
He'd fly into these airport hangers four and five times a day.
And he'd put on this great performance art, mocking and ridiculing Hillary and his opponents.
And these idiot protesters, this is how stupid the left is.
The protesters would show up thinking, well, we're going to show up.
Trump, we're going to make him look bad.
And the media would come to cover these protesters.
And you'll see in the film, as soon as the protesters start screaming, Trump is a racist,
he would say, oh, look over there at the protesters.
He starts smiling.
He was just waiting for the protesters.
And he tricked them into giving him $2 billion worth of free-earned media.
So in answer to your question, if Trump just continues to be himself representing that middle America,
that Harry Truman-style person that speaks from the heart and tells it like it is,
I think he can win out with the Republican Party in 2018 and in the end win the day
because the radical socialist Democrats do not represent anything to do with American society
or free market principles that made this country so great.
Man, Joel, you are so on target.
And that is exactly what we're dealing with here.
The globalist and the socialist controlled media, they're so used to having no opposition
and in a sleek population, they can get away with this.
But now you see the moves they're making.
They're so dumb, but they've worked everywhere else in the world.
Soros is overthrown, as you know, more than 10 countries.
I had some really interesting fellows here in studio whose military backgrounds are secret,
but I know some of it who are top tier, top tier guys, the most elite teams out there.
They were asking me, what do we do as veterans and the groups we know to counter this?
Because these groups are terrorists.
These are videos of Antifa with guns, not letting people demonstrate in America.
And I had to say to them, just keep waking people up.
Let's make the country be successful.
Let's counter who they are, information warfare.
But yeah, at a certain point, I didn't know what to say or what we should do, but just move forward.
I mean, what would you say to those guys they should do?
Well, I'll get to that.
But people, you got to understand that Trump was not a real estate guy when he ran for president.
He'd been in entertainment business for 30 years.
He'd been doing marketing and hype through pro wrestling, pro boxing, USFL, Miss America, Miss Universe.
Sure, he said my job will be being a cheerleader for America and the economy.
And it's here.
The globalists have been cheerleading for China against us.
Exactly.
So the answer is love America, love success, love free market, love ourselves.
That will counter the globalists trying to demoralize us.
Well, and Trump has done it with really what we're essentially leftist tactics.
I got an email from somebody, you saw my film and said, Saul Alinsky works for us now.
And it's true because Trump, while he's going to sleep or when he wakes up, it's very easy for him to send out a few tweets.
And he literally changes the entire narrative of the country in the news that obsess over every single tweet.
And then he can always change the narrative of the next one.
And they're so narcissistic.
They don't get there being let around by the nose like a mentally ill bull.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long.
Go ahead.
I just have to say something, man.
It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging.
It just gets old, man.
I'm going to shut you down right now.
We're taking calls about your nomination.
Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
What's it going to take?
Us being shut down?
Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what, Alex?
I'll put him on pause again.
Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're under attack, we need your help.
As much bagging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
You understand?
I need your help, Frank.
I need your help, Frank.
Go to InfowarsStore.com right now and help fund the Infowars.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank.
Free press needs your help, Frank.
I'm going to start with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into their most potent forms, including
uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo from Peru, horny goatweed from China, and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
Top scientists and researchers agree.
We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
We shall go on to the end, whatever the cost may be.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
We shall defend our republic.
We shall never surrender.
We are back live.
Ladies and gentlemen, broadcasting worldwide, Joe Gilbert is our guest.
I'm going back to him in just a moment, but this dovetails all together.
We're in the middle of an epic battle, historical battle against free market systems that have their own problems,
but are light years better than command and control, the ancient forms of barbarism and everything that comes with it.
Like black unemployment, doubling under Obama and food stamp usage, doubling under Obama, double.
From what, 49 million to 100-something million.
Total control.
And I've known people that were smart, good-looking, intelligent.
You've seen them for five years on employment.
They're like zombies.
Sedentary lifestyle.
How many people retire and then die in the first six months?
A large percentage.
I've had family that retire.
They're super happy type of personalities.
They're dead in a year.
So it's the same thing. They want to make you dependent.
It's sick.
And Obama flies in on jumbo jets and tells Africans you can't have cars in air conditioning.
They're selling austerity and Trump's selling prosperity and whole new economies out of clean technology.
You know, the whole new budget and everything Trump's done and the tax cut has all this really innovative new energy stuff.
And it's not just boondoggles. It's just tax write-offs to bring that industry here and to bring innovation.
And Trump's taking the regulations off what they call disruptive technology.
Secretly, that's what he's really doing.
I'll let you know, is allowing the deployment of a lot of technology the U.S. has been sitting on.
And that's this year.
It's already started. This year you're going to see, oh, look at this thing our scientists discovered.
Oh, they just published the paper.
Oh, we're going to give this to U.S. companies. Watch within one month.
Yes. Yes, Buck Rogers. Let's go, baby. Yeah.
Got somebody not out to screw you.
The globalist got us to the point that they were going to shut down free speech, shut everything down and really bring in nasty stuff.
And even large sections of the elite went, you know, this globalism doesn't work so good.
And this is really nasty. And we don't want to do this.
So there's a real war going on in the elite right now.
Don't think Trump just did this on his own.
He was recruited by patriots in U.S. intelligence agencies for a fact.
Trump was recruited by the U.S. Army.
That's a big secret, but you deserve to know what the Democrats already know.
You deserve to understand what's really going on.
We were being held underwater.
The country was being drowned.
That's over.
And the Communist Chinese are crapping their breaches right now.
It didn't hurt in their people that we're having a good economy. That'll help them.
I'm going to go back to Joel, but let me get this right now.
I'm going to hold Joel over a little bit the next hour, but let me just get to this right now.
It makes me sick to watch the One Foundation in Africa and Haiti collect billions of dollars.
That's Bono and U2, and then only give 1%.
That's mainstream news. They give 1%.
You can click on the Daily Mail article.
And then to watch Conan O'Brien go to Haiti to the one of two resorts where it's somewhat safe,
where rich people basically barge in on boats and don't go anywhere else, landlocked between mountains.
And he says, oh, Haiti is beautiful. It's wonderful. Come here.
Well, we hope to help Haiti and let them get their own economy.
But when you read the State Department travel advisory, it says violent crimes such as armed robbery is common.
Local police may lack the resources to respond effectively to serious criminal incidents or emergencies.
Protests, tire burning and road blockages are frequent and often spontaneous.
That means getting robbed.
And it goes on to say the entire place is super deadly and dangerous.
OK, that's a travel advisory.
He goes and poses with a coconut to virtue signal to say that Trump's full of bulls saying it's a literal, you know what hole.
When that's taken out of context, he said SHIT house, not hole.
And saying, why are we only bringing people in from these countries but blocking it from others, which they do.
Because it's about suppressing and controlling.
So the Internet picked this up and has gone in and photoshopped him in real scenes of Haiti.
And the Internet is standing up to his hypocrisy and his sick virtue signaling.
But it's nothing compared to the leftist groups that go in there and use this money laundering operation
or the Clintons that have been caught shipping little kids out and their own people been indicted and convicted for smuggling kids out for absolutely horrible things.
Meanwhile, we send in food and resources and medicine and Trump paid to have thousands and thousands of children get medical care
back when he was a candidate and no news coverage of that.
But Rand Paul has talked about it.
He flew in on the aid mission financed by Trump.
So that's our crew and that's our people.
They're actually doing something.
And you see all these evil white conservatives, they're actually helping.
They're all conservatives.
You see leftist grandstanding what heroes they are because they're posers and they're fakes and they're actors.
So here's a satirical song I put together with video that we shot in Haiti of not just him in the middle of cesspools and things.
We'll come back to Joel Gilbert.
But of him floating around again in the real Haiti.
So here it is.
Donald Trump has lied to you. Haiti is a rainbow, a glory hole, a heavenly place to go.
And Conan O'Brien, he will be your guide in the wondrous land in the sea.
Drink your coconut, bathe in the pool, the ocean will smile at you.
Donald Trump is a devil, a liar, a fool.
Misogynistic, evil, homophobe, how dare you pay to send thousands of doctors to Haiti personally and like Rand Paul to do the hundreds of eye surgeries.
Because Haiti doesn't need help, it's got coconuts and coconut milk.
Oh Conan O'Brien, he said it was a heavenly place. Liberals know the truth about it, it's not a shit hole.
And North Korea is not a hell hole either. Venezuela is good everywhere, the leftist run things, oh it is so good.
Remember, remember, Haiti is your place and they don't need any aid or any food or any medicine either because Haiti didn't need the two billion that the Clintons took.
Oh and then there's the one foundation that raised money as well. And Bono calls it the one foundation because he only gives one percent.
But that's okay, they're so liberal, always so trendy and good.
So remember, Donald Trump is Hitler and everything will be good.
Don't forget to download the latest track at communismworkswonderful.com.
And remember, free market is a true shit hole, but everywhere else that leftists run is heaven.
And again, if you go to Chicago where the left runs that are New York or Maryland or LA, it's just wonderful.
Seattle is just crap everywhere, heroin needles, people flopping around.
Bill Gilbert is going to be with us into the next hour because I want to give him the floor for a couple of segments to really get into how we counter this and get serious.
The new film everybody should order, Trump, The Art of the Insult, you absolutely need to get it at infowarstore.com.
It doesn't just fund the operation, it is hilarious, super positive, great for parties, great to write reports on for college or school.
This is it, you need to get this film, it's Gilbert's best film, infowarstore.com.
We've got about a minute and a half, we've got a break here, but just seeing me be sarcastic about that.
There's no end to these people.
I thought it was a fantastic video.
The left live in a fantasy world, they've always lived in a fantasy world where there's a perfect utopia.
As you saw in my prior film, there's no place like utopia.
Leftists compare America to the perfect paradise and they conclude that we must tear it down and rebuild this perfect world.
Conservatives or normal people, like I consider myself, I'm from Tennessee, I didn't grow up in LA.
We look at America compared to the rest of the world and we of course conclude that America's free markets, free religion and government system is the greatest place to live.
We want to build it up, we don't want to tear it down.
That's right, we'll be back with our number three, Joe Gilbert.
Your phone calls him more because the globalists aren't giving up and they're about to counter strike big time and take our victory from us.
But we're not going to let that happen, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm Alex Jones. This is the InfoWare.
If you're watching on Twitter, Facebook, Google or other systems, spread those live links now as an act of resistance.
InfoWare's live is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms
like runny nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in public trials, in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now at InfoWare's Life.com or by calling toll 3.
888-253-3139.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWare's listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWare's Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Well, so does he. Live from the InfoWare's dot com studios, it's Alex Jones.
We're back live, ladies and gentlemen, broadcasting worldwide.
Joe Gilbert is our guest. We're going to open the phones up.
Coming up in the next segment to talk about his film. We'll talk about the State of the World, the Women's March.
You name it, 877-789-ALIX, 877-789-ALEX on one big topic or two.
What's your favorite nickname that Trump's come up with for any of these knuckle dragon lion scumbags like Crooked Hillary?
Well, look, some of them worked really well. Like Crooked Hillary had a lot of truth to it.
Low energy Jeb had a lot of humor. Some of them didn't go quite as well.
Like, you know, Carly Fiorina, look at that face. That was kind of off limits for women.
You can't talk about their face. Of course, little Marco was a little bit demeaning,
but it kind of revealed him as really more of a person who was little in his ideas as well as physically.
But I, you know, you got to just say Crooked Hillary was the best. It carried the general election campaign.
Democrats knew she was crooked. The FBI knew she was crooked. Everybody knew she was corrupt.
And I think that way of branding her was a tremendous effort.
And you can't brand it. It's like Fat Albert's fat. I mean, she's Crooked Hillary.
And of course, I love the new ones, Rocket Man, stuff like that.
Well, we got Rocket Man for Kim Jong-un. We've got Kryan Chuck Schumer.
We've got Sneaky Dan Feinstein because she revealed, you know, the transcripts illegally.
So Trump is going to, I think he's going to continue to brand and call out his opponents.
And it's really just about strength and taking a stand and defending his turf and principles, calling out those who behave badly.
Don't forget when the public and the, you know, the media freaks out about Trump said this or tweeted that.
Barack Obama was abusing the public and the American electorate every day he was in office.
He called Americans racist at every opportunity. He used the tools of state, the IRS, of course, Fast and Furious, Benghazi.
Every single day he was trolling, calling Americans the top 1% or taking all your money, you know, give us the power.
We'll take it back. It was eight years of evil trolling.
Trump uses some humor and really calls out his opponents to defend himself.
And I expect him to keep doing that. And that's what's going to make him a strong president.
That's right. And Pocahontas, she's not a Native American. She lied about it.
And he said, hey, go to a genetic test and prove it. They go, oh, you don't like Native Americans.
The Native Americans think it's funny. They said they think it's funny because she's not. It's hilarious.
When you see the film, you'll see things in, you know, Trump's got the insult again, go to InfoWars store.
You can't miss this movie. You know, you'll see things you never thought happened.
The deplorable speech by Hillary. People remember, I didn't see the whole speech.
They just remember she called Trump supporters deplorables.
Well, it was much, much, much worse than that. She called them homophobic, xenophobic, not American on and on.
And you'll see Trump and his supporters destroy Hillary and anyone.
Well, that's the big thing is they call everybody Nazis and all these other names.
And then if you just call them crooked, they're like, how dare him or how dare him undermine the free press in America
by fighting back against these lying propaganda bureaus.
Him responding back is not attacking the press and trying to shut the press down.
It's the left trying to censor everything.
Right. Remember, think about what is an obscene action or verbal action by a president.
Barack Obama invited Black Lives Matter to the White House.
He sent White House representatives to the funeral of Michael Brown in St. Louis and said that, you know, he was this perfect guy.
And then somebody in Dallas murders policemen.
Oh, what a surprise. Obama is the one who propagated these lies.
And he won't go to that. That's keys. And what do we do about it?
Well, Alex, then Obama shows up at the funeral for the cops and calls Americans racist.
Now, what is more offensive? All that behavior that resulted in the death of policemen and then Obama going and telling people that your racist don't even know it.
Let's go back and introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on, or your mind.
We sell books, we sell films, we sell high quality supplements to fund our operation at InfoWarsStore.com.
We've got several big specials that are about to end there. We have our good halogen, the X2, that helps detoxify the body and do so much more.
Basically blocks the fluoride from my own research, cause we'd have weight loss, stamina, energy. Truly amazing.
That is 40% off when you get it with the secret 12 high quality organic vitamin B12 that you take under the tongue.
Those are 40% off together right now.
Also, for seasonal distress and the pollen, all the dust and the garbage that's 24 hours a day in this country, we've got the pollen block.
You need to research that. It's natural, it's organic. It's specially fed Japanese quail.
And then it's their eggs concentrated into capitals that you just chew up.
Doesn't really taste good, doesn't taste bad. And then within an hour, it's been proven documented to relieve a lot of people.
Seasonal distress, pollen block. InfoWarsLife.com, InfoWarsStore.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
And we have air filtration units right now that are extremely high quality, the Alexa Pure Breeze.
Normally a great deal at $200. It's $149 right now and free shipping. You cannot beat that deal.
Leading competitors basically sell the same 4-stage ion filter, one of them's ion and has ion cluster and three others.
Well, these babies are a great deal at $200. Leading competitors are $400 to $800.
It has 478 reviews, 4.9 stars by power reviews, 97%. Nobody's got that.
And this is a true game changer. Whatever the best deal is, the highest quality.
There's one philosophy where you just sell things with a super high sticker on them and say they're the best.
And then there are some people that will buy whatever's expensive. About 10%, they say.
It varies country to country. I don't follow the marketing. I just go get the very best, lowest price.
I want to sell an absolutely huge amount of them to fund the operation, which we do.
But at $200 is a great deal. People sit around until it's discounted.
I mean, this is just crazy discount because I know it costs like $80 to make the thing.
So it's amazing. It's got phase one, phase two, phase three and phase four.
The ion cluster, true HEPA filter, carbon filter, pre-filter, four filters.
And my wife, God lover, she's like, it's always red. It's broken. And I said, baby, you got to take off the pre-filter for like cat hair and stuff.
You know, when it's red all the time, that means it needs to be clean and you just brush it off, put it back in.
And whatever, I mean, I don't want to get graphic here, but somebody can pass gas 30 feet away.
The thing turns red right away. I mean, that's how powerful this is.
And so let's pure breeze. Your family deserves it. Four or five of them will do the whole house, a big house and an apartment.
One of them will do a smaller apartment.
So in four store.com, in fourslife.com or triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Okay, Joe Gilbert, you got the floor for the rest of this segment. We're going to take calls next segment on two big subjects, callers.
What's your favorite thing Trump's done? Favorite nickname? What do you make of the first year?
How are the globalists going to strike back? What are your concerns? Maybe you're not happy with Trump.
We'll also take those calls. So it's eight, seven, seven, seven, eight, nine, Alex.
I got other callers about, you know, Geneva Bible revision or stuff. I'll get to you after Joel's gone.
I'll take your call. I just, you know, he's here to talk about this general area, the film, which is unbelievable, great to show the kids.
We couldn't stop laughing for 95 minutes in four store.com.
Okay. Going back to Joel Gilbert, you repeat what you said about bringing in Black Lives Matter, the McCops get killed, going to the funeral in Dallas and saying it's your fault.
You're racist. CNN even said that because some Black cops get killed. Now it's their fault.
Then he didn't go to Louisiana though when it happened. And it just shows betting on old communist programs that don't work anymore.
And then how do people counter this? How do you deal with it?
Look, the, unfortunately, the established Republicans and the conservatives have traditionally not understood how to fight the left in the political battlefield.
And they haven't understood that the Democrat Party is a radical party. They're willing to lie, engage in voter fraud and use the tools of state IRS, DOJ, FBI to crush the will of the American voter.
I like to quote Alexis de Tocqueville, who wrote the book Democracy in America. And he said that, and I'm quoting, he said, everyone in America has the vote and is a contributor to lawmaking.
Anyone wishing to change the law must take one of two courses. They must either change the nation's opinion or trample its wishes under foot.
And that's what the leftists do. That's what Obama did. And that's what the DOJ and FBI and Comey were up to. They were trying to trample the will of the voters to destroy American democracy.
Trump was the first one of all the Republicans you'll see in the film and, you know, and Trump, the art of the insult, you'll see that he stood up to everybody.
He wouldn't back down. He wouldn't apologize. And by doing so, he was able to defeat all the Republican establishment, as well as the radical left and the entire media complex.
And even then, just barely, he won by a few points in the end. And when you see the film, by the way, you'll see how he defeated the Republican establishment.
Even Ted Cruz, who was really the outsider candidate at the beginning of the election, he was the anti-establishment hero.
He had stood up to Obama, read Green Eggs and Ham on the Senate floor, and the election really was his to lose.
I actually told him that personally. He just needed to be Ted Cruz, the outsider, the rebel. Mr. Cruz goes to Washington.
But Cruz instead chose this establishment route. He wanted to be Jeb Bush. He wanted to be this mainstream guy.
And Trump came along and he said, OK, if you don't want to be Ted Cruz, I'll be Ted Cruz.
So really, the drain the swamp guy was Ted Cruz and Trump took over that persona.
And when you see the film, you'll see how he destroyed Cruz and everyone else.
And by the way, I've screened this film to people that are Democrats and liberals, and they actually enjoyed the film.
Now, I'll admit it was for different reasons than Republicans might enjoy the film.
But it's not like my film Dreams of My Real Father liberals would run out of the room screaming after three minutes.
They would say, hello, I don't want to know. I don't want to know.
But with this movie, they'll actually sit through the whole thing and enjoy it as well.
So you should get it and show it to your liberal friends and they should be able to take it.
And I'm glad you brought that up because I know a lot of people who are classic liberals,
but believe the Democratic Party because they were anti-war and they believe in taking care of the poor.
And the Republican Party has been a really kind of nasty group of blue bloods that have had their own problems.
But like you said, the Bill Ayers takeover starting in the late 60s is pretty much complete now.
And most of the liberals I know now say they and all their friends absolutely are just disillusioned with the Democratic Party
and what's going on and it's all about your really old globalist fossils as well.
So where do you see the Democratic Party going?
I think the Democrat Party unfortunately has been infiltrated and reinforced on every level by far left radicals.
The Black Lives Matter is mainstream Democrat politics.
Antifa mainstream Democrat politics.
Bernie Sanders, Stalinist, old school communist is one of their leaders.
People showed up at his rallies and they clapped, they cheered.
He talked about we're going to take over the banks, break up the pharmaceutical companies.
That's pure communism.
That's what they did back in the days of Bolshevism in Russia.
They put all the bourgeois, they called them the entrepreneurs.
They put them in jail and government took over industry.
And of course government bureaucrats aren't productive.
So all the industries were destroyed and people ended up starving to death.
But people show up to these Bernie Sanders rallies and they clap
as if this is a solution that makes any sense in economics.
And it doesn't.
So I see the Democrat Party as going farther and farther left
and if the Republicans get rid of all this never Trump nonsense
and solidify themselves behind the conservative agenda that Trump is promoting
and it's no different from the agenda that Republicans have been talking about for 10 years.
Well, sure, Trump sounds like JFK and his tax policies and all of it.
I mean, you see what this party's turned into and even the Democrats admit they're hated.
They're a joke.
They just spew the most nasty, made up, crap it.
People agree with me or you're a Nazi and people are sick of that crud.
Well, JFK, don't forget, was a big anti-communist.
That's why the radical left Bill Ayers, Weather Underground, they hated JFK.
They hated Robert Kennedy because they were anti-communist.
The movement, the leftist movement in this country is a very dangerous thing.
They've been attacking all the institutions of democracy, attacking police.
It's almost as if we're back in the late 60s where the Weather Underground is here,
but they're in the person of the Democrat Party.
I was about to say, you know, these Democrat rallies, you see a half million people want to kill you
and they're like spitting and just yelling like mental patients.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all-natural, earth-friendly, pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk, get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply, or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Soapiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
10-Year Shelf Life Bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Secret 12 for Optimal Absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12, Optimal Absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Optimal levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support Optimal Brain and Body Function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Bill Clinton sounded more like Trump back then.
Oh, we're going to have a good economy and all the rest of it.
Socially, they did some bad stuff, but they did do some things to try to boost the economy, but it was artificial.
But that said, the Democrats, as we thought earlier, they didn't block the vote to limit debate.
And so now they've aided a 16 gone through and said they're going to move forward with the vote later today.
The word is the Dems give up, show down, fight.
That's what it signaled earlier.
Normally, when they start giving up on all these votes towards the final vote later today, it shows that.
I want to go to phone calls with Joel Gilbert.
He's not just a filmmaker.
He's a great patriot and a really smart analyst.
Before we go to these calls in this segment and the next, and I'll let you go and I got some final news I'm going to hit before our other host takes over.
What do you make of the Democrats and their tactics as you talk about how their tactics don't work anymore?
But in their own echo chambers, Democrats didn't used to look this mentally ill and this stupid and this ugly.
And I don't say that with pleasure.
I go out and see throngs of people acting like animals and being really mean and vicious and really acting like the fascists they talk about.
And I wonder what happened to them?
How did they get radicalized so quickly?
Well, because their policies don't work, they've been proven to be disastrous for everybody.
Poor people, rich people, any leftist country, you're going to be bankrupt.
The country is going to be bankrupt.
You're going to have a lot of poverty.
So because they know their policies don't work, they have cast the entire political field, battlefield into good versus evil.
So these people feel that they're an army of saints, they're an army of do-gooders.
They represent values.
Every time you hear a Democrat politician, they always talk about our values.
Their values are good.
Everyone else is evil.
And because they believe this narrative of good and evil, if you believe that you were going to save the world by getting rid of Trump and you're going to create a perfect future, you might commit some crimes too because paradise is waiting for you.
It's not different from the Islamist ideology that if you kill in the name of jihad, that you'll reach this paradise in the afterlife.
The only difference between the leftists and the Islamists is the leftists believe they'll achieve paradise on earth, whereas for Islamists, it's paradise in the next world.
Joe Gilbert, you are hired, you are so dead on, and that's why the left is completely allied with the most radical forms of Islam, and Lynda Sorcer and others attacked the women who were mainly leading demonstrations,
winning freedom in Tehran, getting shot and killed and arrested and tortured.
And Sorcer said, oh, it's a stunt.
Them taking their hajjibs off.
Well, she's got her hajjib on, leading the women's march in New York.
It is obscene that Soros could put her in at the front and he funds her and the women line up behind her like baby ducks.
Well, AJ Weberman has put together a website.
I think it's our sort net where he exposes he calls it.
He has a book called a jihad growing in Brooklyn.
That's very interesting.
But bringing in people, large groups of people from Muslim countries, open borders.
All of this is part of the tactic of the left because they know traditional Americans will never follow their disastrous policies.
They hope to replace traditional Americans and outvote them with immigrants, undocumented immigrants, people from Muslim countries, poor countries,
so that these people will, they believe will vote Democrat because they will want the bigger government services.
Well, exactly. The thing is, we could have people from all over if they didn't get indoctrinated, but they got introduced to free market.
They'd be great.
But instead, we have to oppose it because they are being turned into a mob of frothing crazies.
That's part of the, you know, that's part of the trip of the radical left is to bring in as many low income, low wage, unskilled workers as possible.
Because they know they'll get about 90% of them voting for Democrats who will not only promise them extra free services, health care, and so on.
They're also promising them this perfect future.
And that's why you see that the left putting immigrants, minorities right out at the forefront.
I think there was even on one of the Democratic Party websites, they said, we want to bring more women into the process to run for office.
And they listed Muslim women, black women, Hispanic women, Jewish women, everybody, but Christian women.
So the left.
I was about to say Sir told them last year's and this year's March, no Christian women allowed and they would have let you march with them.
They throw you out even though it's your right to march.
If you're wearing a pro live shirt.
Yeah, they really are borderline on the race selection system.
If you look at look at Nazi Germany, how they started out by dividing everyone by race and racial, you know, DNA religion.
The Democrats are going in that direction where they're dividing everybody, their constituents, they're dividing America along racial and religious lines,
because they believe that they can then agitate and get the large masses to follow them with this identity politics idea, which really is a racial agenda,
a racial and religious agenda to divide people.
Exactly. They are following because when the Nazis first got in, it was on, you know, supposedly recovering all this other stuff in Versailles treaty,
but it was a socialist program and they said that we're just going to get everybody in their groups so we can categorize you for the census and stuff and IBM helped.
And then they use once everybody in their own group, that's when they started the persecution.
And so the Democrats are literally getting us all to do the opposite of what Martin Luther King did.
They're getting us to literally identify as a group.
Right. Martin Luther King believed that we will judge people by the strength of their character, not by the color of their skin, a very noble, very American idea.
That's why we have Martin Luther King Day.
It's not for radicals like Barack Obama and all of his minions who run around saying that, well, you know, he had something on his campaign website,
African Americans for Obama, Muslims for Obama. It was all about dividing people and identifying their race.
And it is very racist to tell people you have to believe in socialism and communism if you're this skin color or this religion.
It's gone so far in the opposite direction.
And again, it's because the Democrat leftist policies do not work.
You're right. And it's extremely patronizing. It's very patronizing to how they talk down to these groups. It's sick.
Yeah, there was this guy named, I think his first name is Paris. He's an African American that was a Trump supporter.
And he was on CNN explaining Trump's policies during the election.
And this white professor from some Ivy League school said, you're a disgrace to your race. How dare you support Donald Trump?
And of course, he was very offended. He said, how dare you say that I have to believe in socialism and your nonsense because of my skin color.
It's pure racism to cast black people at anybody that they have to support some crazy leftist agenda because of their race.
And think how racist that is. Yeah, we have that video. We probably ought to grab that and play it next segment.
I mean, that is the ultimate racist thing to say to a black person or a white person or anybody.
You're a disgrace to your race when it's the human race because you're not doing what I tell you to do.
That is great. They think they own black people.
Well, America is a great ideal. It's a country that brought together people of all races, all religions, toward a goal of free markets, free religion,
building an entrepreneurial, individualistic economy where people can pursue happiness and community.
And the Republican Party, the conservative agenda embodies this. And the Democrat leftist agenda is something that is becoming very anti-America.
We'll be back, ladies and gentlemen, right to your calls. Right to your calls. Stay where the start.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
And supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarsalife.com.
But instead of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works.
And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy,
this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there, and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarsalife.com. What it can do for you and your family.
And again, I want to thank you all for your support. You are funding the Information War in 2018.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all this stuff. There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, infowarsalife.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarsalife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We've posted the trailer at infowarsalife.com.
We're going to put banners up on the front page of the site.
I'm really going to promote this film. I'm going to put some ads out as well,
because all of his films are amazing.
Dreams of My Real Father, his film Utopia, about the Communist nightmare.
No place like Utopia. The art of the insult, standing up to bullies.
You need to see this film. It's amazing. It's hilarious.
You're going to laugh for much of 95 Minutes, infowarsalife.com, and that helps fund our operation.
No reviews yet, because it just went up today.
I know we have the trailer. Let's make sure we embed the trailer or the trailer.
I'm going to cut for it there, as everybody needs to see the film.
Okay, Joel Gilbert is our guest. Thank you for holding George and Mike and Jason and Chris and Lee and Marcos and John and Mackenzie.
We'll at least get to those calls here while we have our guest.
Let's go ahead and talk to Mike in New York or on the air with Joel Gilbert.
Hey, what's going on? This is Mike from Queens, Donald Trump's hometown.
God bless you, brother. What's on your mind?
No, I'm not. I just wanted to talk about the name.
Some of the names he came out with, like Lyle Wachter for Elizabeth Warren and John K. Sicki.
It's really not a name, but it was pretty funny when he pointed out the fact that he was shoveling pancakes in his mouth like it was his last meal.
Things like that are what Americans remember, especially when you're out there trying to reach people.
And that's what we need is somebody that's unconventional, not somebody that, what Joel said earlier,
Trump doesn't want to be part of the establishment. He knows there are a bunch of stuffed shirts and a bunch of self-important weirdos.
Trump's known for hanging out with blue-colored workers because they're fine.
And that's what we need. I'm sorry, I've seen the top of Hollywood. I've seen the top of it all.
It's super boring. It all sucks. Trump knows that, and that's what you need to know about Trump,
is that he likes to work. He likes to do things. He likes to be real.
And he likes women. And you know, everybody's sick of hypocrites, and Trump's not a hypocrite.
Great point, Mike. Joel Gilbert.
Yeah, actually, there was a nickname for John Kasich besides making fun of his disgusting eating habits.
Trump called Kasich 1 for 41 because he only won his home state of Ohio and insisted on staying in the race, staying in the race.
And then he cut a deal with Ted Cruz in Indiana and told people, don't vote for Trump, vote for one of us.
And that failed so miserably. Kasich and Cruz were out of the race as soon as the polls closed.
Thank you so much, Mike. But notice that you're later, Trump is delivering.
I can't say anybody can be bitching at this point. But man, what are they able to implode the economy, Joel?
What's going to happen then, though, my God?
Well, you could almost argue that this is the resistance.
They probably cannot deal with the fact that people are going to be happy over the tax cuts
and not be able to deal with all the success of the economy in the stock market.
So all they're left with is shut down the government, shut down the government.
That's for me to believe that it's going to stay open all year long.
It's probably going to keep shutting down. They're going to prevent Trump from having a budget.
And again, China is cheerleading it, hoping we fail.
And the Democrats are with the Communist Chinese.
Well, shutting down the government is a resistance tactic.
That's how only way they have left to keep the success of Donald Trump from permeating the American economy
and the American psyche. If he stays in power and does well, the Democrat Party is finished for another generation.
Great point. Okay, let's go to Christian in Tennessee. You're on the air with Joel Gilbert. Go ahead, Christian.
Hey, how you doing?
Good, brother.
Huge fan. I got one quick point to make real quick.
Sure.
Alice, when do you plan on announcing the winner of the First Annual People's Choice Award?
We are totally overwhelmed. I gave the guys a blueprint, but then I want to watch the whole thing
because I want to find the guy that called and said it was turning the economy on.
That's the biggest story. And then that's what Trump went with number one.
But I may just have to give it to other folks because I'm going to try to do it today or tomorrow.
Thank you for reminding me. I'm sorry.
Well, you're fine. And Doug, I'm a huge fan.
You know, one of my favorite nicknames is Barry Davis Obama.
And for all you people out there that want to accuse Alex of being a Jew this or a Jesuit this,
you know, Obama was tutored by Greg Galluso of the Gabilio Foundation, who was a Jesuit,
but they had to throw in Gabilio to make himself Jewish.
And, you know, if you were a co-jewer there, Alex, you'd be a good woman after 25 years.
Oh, listen, my biggest issue is I've noticed it's the left that uses the race politics
and constantly invokes it like the left will walk into a conservative store, a gun shop,
and say, do you let, you know, K words in just to start a fight?
They're the ones, the left, I never heard the N word until I went up north and was around leftist.
I'm not bashing northerners. I'm just saying that's where I first heard it.
And it's just that's all they hide. Thank you, Christian.
Let's talk to Marcos in Fort Worth, Texas.
Marcos, you're on the air with Mr. Gilbert and Alex Jones. Go ahead.
I'm just trying to stay away from these PBGs, Alex.
Okay, what's a potbelly pedophile?
Potbelly goblins, potbelly pedophiles, potbelly everybody's.
And again, nobody's bad if they have a potbelly. I have a little bit of one.
It's that there's something about these leftists and these pedophiles, every time they get busted,
they look like, that's what I call them PBPs, yeah.
I love it. I love it. And that's the art of the insult in itself, within itself.
That's the importance.
Well, it is true that these people that attack us at the leftist events look like goblins.
And so, I don't know why. In fact, there's a new one. It's on M4s.
Goblin creature attacks M4s reporters, and he looks like a goblin.
It's faced like a top-ranking orc from Lord of the Rings, if you've seen the movies.
Well, you know, part of this is really sad because, look, in fact, I see a caller there. George says,
left using protest to turn unemployed against Trump.
I think these are really desperate people who totally live off the system,
and they think we're trying to kill them. They don't understand. Thank you, Marcos. Great points.
Goblins is a great nickname for the left, but only because it fits.
I mean, see the guy that attacked me in Seattle? These new guys, they look like goblins, Joel.
Well, people remember from my Utopia film, there's a theory from the 60s from Francis Fox Piven.
I'm sure you know what it's called, The Weight of the Poor.
And what the Democrats did in New York in the mid-70s is they tried to destroy business, run business out of town,
and put as many people on welfare as they could in order to crash the system.
And that's how they bankrupted New York City. And that is a strategy Obama was using.
He put an extra 20 million people on food stamps.
Well, that's Cloward and Piven.
Cloward and Piven put another $10 trillion in the deficit.
The goal was if you can crash the system and collapse capitalism in free markets,
then you can build the communist society from scratch.
So all this welfare state economics put everybody on the system is intended to execute an evil plan upon America,
not to help any individual at all. The free market system is the one that creates wealth
and takes care of, in the end, poor people or people that can't take care of themselves.
And Trump is reinvigorating the great American entrepreneurial spirit every day.
That's right. Absolutely. Let's go ahead and go to John in Boston and the great city of Boston. Go ahead, sir.
Alex, it's great to talk to you from Texas, Massachusetts. I love you, man.
I love info war and praise for you daily. Thank you.
I think that it's very important for Donald Trump if he's going to release the memo to do it during the State of the Union address,
where he has full coverage from CNN, MSNBC, and forces them into talking about it.
That is a great idea. You should talk about the abuses, the fraud, catching the top organizing the fraud. We have them.
The true State of the Union. Let us know everything that's going on behind the scenes rather than going out there and talking about the stock market
and everything. I mean, he's done amazing things and anybody with eyes.
I agree. He should open up with the positive things and thank the American people and thank the military and everybody else.
And then he should get into the facts and just indict them all for criminals that tried to bring the country down.
I would also agree. Yeah, I would add that that's just the ongoing battle against the mainstream media against lies against a narrative to trick people.
The mainstream media wake up every day and they say, how can we fool the people who read us and listen to us into believing in the leftist Democrat agenda?
I've been through it. I even had the FEC Federal Election Commission try to prosecute me for making the film dreams for my real home.
That was in the news and that was in WikiLeaks. They wanted you particularly arrested, which is why we know you're a good guy in winning.
Because if they're not trying to put you in jail, well, you're not on Team America. Thank you so much, John.
Stay there if you've got anything else. I'll come right back to John. We'll do another segment with the one and only Joel Gilbert.
Get the new film at infowarstore.com.
They began studying the effects in public trials in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress,
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll 3-888-253-3139.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long. Go ahead.
Yeah, I just have to say something, man. It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging. It just gets old, man.
I'm going to shut you down right now. We're taking calls about your nomination.
Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
I mean, what's it going to take? Us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what, Alex?
I'll put it on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're under attack, we need your help?
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
Do you understand I need your help, Frank? I need your help, Frank?
Go to InfowarsStore.com right now and help fund the Infowars.
Do you understand I need your help, Frank? Free Press needs your help, Frank.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining, and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Fluorolife is sold as a 15-billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50-billion probiotic for a 30-day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfowarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics today.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Number 3. We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on Autoship, and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new Autoship feature at InfowarsLife.com, this is a sure win.
If you want to send it off on Autoship, win win win at InfowarsLife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for Autoship.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones here back live. There's video up on inforwars.com of Chelsea Manning
showing up at the Patriot event. It was completely inclusive in New York. Jack Masobyk was there.
He's coming up hosting the fourth hour. We're gonna play some of that video as well.
And everybody was nice at Chelsea Manning. I mean, if you want to say you're a pink reindeer,
or you want to say you're an Easter Bunny, or you want to say you're a woman, I don't care.
Just don't try to go teach five-year-olds that to confuse their sexual orientation,
which is what the agenda of the globalist is. Everybody was nice to Chelsea Manning.
Okay, aren't you a pretty girl? It was Obama put you in prison.
He, she said that
it was a horrible, racist, white supremacist event. Just to go virtue signal. I guess it's
a stunt for her Senate run. And I wanted to just hit that before I go back to John and these other
callers. The sexualization of children, the pedophilia in Hollywood, the wanting to target
children when they're young, the Tabasco Institute, it's all about population control. And I guess
just attacking the family. I'm not saying Chelsea Manning does this. Chelsea's a, I think, you know,
just a byproduct of this whole program. But they're really obsessed with that. That's their
next big bet is to be tolerant. Let us teach your five-year-old son that he's really a girl and
like Jocelyn elders said, rakes down and touch him and take him out of door. I mean,
what's going on in the leftist diseased mind? Well, Alex, look, Manning was a traitor. People
forget that Manning was a traitor. So was Beau Bergdahl. Both of them Manning gets let out of
prison, despite a very long sentence for treason. You've got to Beau Bergdahl. People died trying
to find him. And he also gets off. So nothing can be more illustrative of the Obama administration,
the leftist Obama mentality. But why does, why does Jocelyn elders want to reach down and touch
your child's? Sorry. Well, well, this is the, you know, the, the sickness of the, the far left
ideology that goes back to the communist movement in the 60s, where Marxism is an attack against
traditional society and B.F. Skinner, the family unit no longer exists. We're going to put you
on these collective farms and you're all going to live in this big collective where you're going
to produce more because you're going to be so happy that you're going to make more food and
produce more crops. In China, they tried that, of course, in Ukraine, the government would show up
and take all the produce. And it turns out everybody stars to death. So the whole concept
to change humanity, to create a new human being that doesn't have a gender,
that doesn't want to live in a traditional family, that, that you're just an animal living in this
collective, like a zoo animal with the government being the zookeeper who controls you and everything
you think it is a anti-life death cult in the end. 150 million people were murdered in peacetime by
communist regimes because they wouldn't go along with this collective or they just starved to death
on the way to utopia. You're absolutely right. The biggest problem is so many people I know are
closeted libertarians or conservatives, but they get censored or they get attacked and they won't
even have me on their shows, which I don't need to be on their shows. It's just the fact that
they want to play it safe. And by playing it safe, that's why we're going to lose. If we lose,
it's all these people playing it safe. People don't understand the Never Trumpers. I don't know how
they could not understand that if Hillary won, there'd be nothing left of the United States.
There'd be no more conservative movement. There'd be no more Republicans. It would be 100%
leftist majority in every state where it's just a given. You'd have all the corruption in Chicago,
bankruptcy, horrible education, violent culture. They were going to bring all the devastation of
Chicago and Detroit to the rest of the country. That's why anybody that was a Republican Libertarian
that didn't vote for Trump or doesn't understand what the stakes are, are out of their mind.
And they know it's a culture of corruption. They're all criminals and exempt themselves from it.
They are mid-level and high-level Democrats are the criminal party. And the Blue Blood Republicans
are a bunch of cowards that go along with it. They're even worse. Let's go ahead and talk to
John and Boston. Go ahead and finish up your point, John. Alex, you know, it all just comes down to
the fact that they worship the devil and they love the devil. And they're going to do whatever
isn't in our best interest because of that. And you look at these potbelly goblins you talk about.
And the one thing they're missing is God. You look at their eyes. You can see it.
They're empty. They're hollow. They don't care about anyone but themselves. And it's just really
sad. But Trump can defeat this by going off-script. Like you said, not playing it safe. And I really
think reading the Pfizer memo at the State of the Union is the way to do that.
God bless you. Absolutely. That's a great idea, isn't it, Joel?
Forget John McCain was exposed again as a Democrat by voting for Obamacare and he's knee
deep in this whole Pfizer warrants thing. Jeff Flake, Flake Jeff Flake also from Arizona,
went on the Senate floor and called Trump Stalin. He lied about what even Trump said. Trump said
the fake news media was the enemy of the American people. Flake goes on the Senate floor and says
that Trump said the media was. So Trump has exposed these establishment Republicans as really being
Democrats. And if you go to the InfoWars store, I encourage you, you got to watch the film. You'll
understand Trump like you've never seen him. No, you're right. Because the film's well done.
It's fun. It progresses as he marches throughout the film, you know, up to the podium. And you see
the process of him winning and it's really great tactics for all of us that kind of instinctively
do this in our own lives. When somebody messes with me or lies about me, I just snap back with a,
you know, funny insult and I make it fun and they hate that. It's the same. We're not being nasty.
We're just being, oh, yeah, you know, and, and, but all of us that are successful will watch this
and see Trump distilling it. That's why this film is invaluable. All your children should see this
film and learn how to not let bullies hurt you. Not even getting to fight with them.
Swap them back with wit. And, you know, that's how you deal with them.
Yeah. Trump had the creativity. Every day he, in his sleep, he's falling asleep,
he's waking up and tweeting. And when he hits send, they just start to go nuts and they can't
think of anything in response. All they can do is say, Trump is not very nice and he had an affair
20 years ago. That's all they can say. They don't have an ounce of creativity. And that's why
Trump is dominating them every day. And that's why Christians forgive him because he's not being a
hypocrite either. He's not up there. It's just, it's just unbelievable. Imagine where we'd be
right now, Joel, if, if, if Hillary would have gotten elected, like you said, it'd be hell on
earth right now. That woman looks like a psychotic demon. I mean, she just looks like a witch out
of a movie. I mean, she looks crazy. She was involved in abuse of power for 25 years. It's
been well chronicled in book after book. Hillary had designs on eliminating the every amendment
after amendment drop, eliminating the borders, defeating permanently any opposition to the
leftist agenda. And we went through a very dangerous time and really Trump won a couple of states by
maybe 10,000 votes. So the United States was on a very dangerous course where it would not have
continued ever to be the. I agree. Can you believe they're getting Mitt Romney out of deep freeze to
run for the Senate to go after Trump? It's a disappointing to, to think that could happen.
But let's see how things play out. The Republican base is not stupid and they know the score.
And when you watch, you know, the art of the insult, you'll be inspired yourself, like you said,
to stand up to all this leftist bullying. Absolutely. And that's why the fight's just
beginning, folks. I'm telling you, if you go to sleep, listeners, we're done. You are the heart
of the resistance. I salute you all. And I mean that I salute you all, no matter what color you
are, where you came from, if you want free market, if you want a future of everybody,
if you're not a devil worshiper, then we're on your side. And literally what the color said,
man, you get to the bottom of this, these are evil people. And they got a bunch of slaves
following them. George in California. Thanks for holding you're on here with Joe Gilbert. Go ahead.
It's nice to talk to you, Alex. I'm a big fan of you and your project. Thank you.
Thank you. I want to talk about the marches that happened this past weekend. Yes. I feel like they
were used to get uninformed people. They discovered it as a woman's march to get
uninformed people so they could have more votes in favor of the Democrats. Here's to say, we're for
the women. Yes. We want you alone. We don't want you to have kids. We want you on welfare. We want
you sterilized. We really love you. Yeah. And the other thing, I have another point to make. You
guys stay close to home when you guys were talking about identity politics, because this is my first
election that I voted for and I voted for Trump. And all hell was raised when I told my parents,
because my father, he's Hispanic and he's like, why'd you do that? You went against all the Mexicans,
like you're with the races. And I was like, he's for America. He's for my birthplace. I was born
in America. Hold on. I want to put you on hold. Don't hang up, George. And we should have gone to
you earlier. We're going to do five more minutes. We'll finish with Joel Gilbert. I want to talk
about this. My grandfather, my dad's dad was the first person. And of course, my mother's dad as
well. They both voted Republican. There were two vets that came back. They helped put Eisenhower
in office. The one I ran for office as a Republican in one in Texas. But the point was,
do you imagine my family wasn't like racist and all that, but you were Democrats here?
Because the Republicans had invaded the South. And you know what? He was loved a decade after he
did it, but he went through hell to do the right thing, just like you just did. I want to plow
into all of this. Then I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners
to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it
any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I
want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and
iodine as well. infowarslife.com or triple-A2533139. And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against
us, so we need your support. Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms
in the country, that if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours,
just on the files I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this,
this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year. But
immune wall is incredible at folks. Other formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80. It's a
great deal at $39. Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more. It is concentrated.
You need to go read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality
mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend. I mean, this is the next level. It's
now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal. Beta,
gluten, olive leaf, and more. Immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com, or triple eight, 2533139.
Jack Pasobak's coming up.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Jack Pasobak was there at the women's march, there at their night for freedom.
The Antifa attack trying to block folks coming in. These are people that want to shut our speech
down just like they do on the internet. I'll close a little bit into the next hour with him,
but George is telling a powerful story. Here's the thing, I don't pander to people.
I don't sit there, and I've got a family that does this where we'll be another part of the country
or around somebody that has a different accent, and so my family will start trying to adopt it.
It drives me crazy. That's a form of virtuous signaling, and they just do it to be nice.
I'm going to talk like I'm going to talk. You like my culture. The truth is,
everybody likes different cultures. I like women that look different. I like food that's different.
I want to go in the soul food restaurant and eat the black southern food. It's really just
southern food. I want to go in the real Mexican food restaurant. Everybody likes everybody,
as long as there's plenty of resources. That's how humans act. We got free market. We got thousands
of worlds. It's unlimited. What we don't need is domestication. Hispanics, which means from the
island of Hispaniola, that's funny enough what Haiti is today. It's not really Hispanic. That's
the island of Hispaniola's Dominican Republic and to the east and to the west, Haiti.
I guess one part of the island is Hispanic. It's successful. The other is just voodoo and festive
in the hellhole. But the point is, is I didn't put the poor people down. We're trying to fix it.
Hispanics are already half the population in the US below the age of 20. In another 10 years,
it's a joke. It's your country. If you want it flooded by outside other third world populations
who are going to be brainwashing the anti free market and want to blow up the big free market
rocket ship you got because you had kids, great. Stay Christian. Have kids. Don't let them abort
your kids and don't let them sell you the new world order. That's the message. You like free
market? You like all this? People are trying to get in here because they want what's left of it.
It's unlimited if we don't blow it up. But I know what you're talking about. Let this attack me for
being a Trump supporter. I couldn't imagine what it's like in New York being, you know, as you said,
a Mexican American who just wants to be an American. I don't say I'm a Welsh American,
just an American and to have your family come after you. So finish up your story there, George.
The point is tell your family, we are America and the globalists are the ones exploiting it.
So as our economy comes back, this is helping us. It's crazy to bring people in or have folks
that were here longer than anybody else like Mexicans and then to not think you're not the
country. It's your heritage too. Sorry, go ahead. Yeah, I'm just going to correct. I'm from California
and just to give you some of my background, I'm Mexican Salvadorian, but I claim to be American
because I was born in September. Do you know California? Sure. Yeah, you're an American.
And even my mom gave me trouble last week with the whole as whole comment. She was saying like,
how can you go for someone that said that about people from my country? And I rebutted with,
well, do you want to go live in El Salvador or do you want to stay here? And she said,
I would rather stay here. Who doesn't call Haiti or other? I mean, it is that is there is crap.
Oh, there's no sewage treatment. There's crap. That's why they're called that. Everybody calls it
that. I mean, people in Mexico say, I don't want to go to that city. Don't go there. Other people
say, Hey, should I go this channel? That's how they go. Don't go here. It's a real asshole in
Spanish. That's what you call it. Even in El Salvador, it's like that because, you know,
the gangs are ruling over there and the government has been ruled by the gangs over there. And I
have family who have been threatened by the MS 13 or whatever gang is ringing over there. And
I just don't see why people don't see that. Yeah, and you'll be proven right. I mean,
ask your family, what do you think about the prosperity? What don't you get Hillary? These
people are pandering to you. They don't care about you. It's all talk. All right, brother,
I'm going to say about a Gilbert on the other side. We're back in 60 seconds. Thank you so much,
George. But again, it's just like my dad's death, particularly he knew it was the right thing to
do. Civil Rights Act, all of it. He did it like all those other people did back then. Then they
try around and call those very people racist today because they're ignorant. I'm so excited. The new
product at info wars life.com in a glass bottle, two months servings filled to the brim filled
to the absolute top, the real red bill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't
have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly,
I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't
prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae. And I came up with our
own formulae working with some scientists and developers non GMO made right here in America,
120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it, which is the precursor
to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill now available at info wars store.com. And your purchase fuzz the operation.
Jack Mesubic defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Jack Mesubic can do a great job hosting this tower. He was right there in the middle of
the night for freedom rally. They got so much international attention that Chelsea Manning
showed up too. And they were super nice too. So he then made up a bunch of crap. Amazing.
And I'm not going to pretend you're a man, Manning. You got those chromosomes.
I don't care if you think you're a woman and like guys, knock yourself out, bro.
I'm not going to say you're a pink pony either. If you say you're one,
just like you say we're Nazis and we're not jackass. So we're going to finish up with Joel
Gilbert and hand the baton over with Mesubic. I just want a circus. We got so many clubs
we're going to play the shower as well. But briefly, as we talked about it, I got to play it one
more time. Here's the trailer for Trump. The art of the insult standing up to bullies is my subtitle
for it. That's what I'm going to call it when I put the trailer out. Directed by Joel Gilbert.
He's made four films I've seen. They're all amazing. We carry them all info wars store.com.
No place like utopia frames my real father. You name it. But this, he also made a film
exposing the job. His name escapes me. What's the name of that film? There's two of them. One is
farewell Israel and one is atomic jihad. That's right. I've seen all those and we, I think we
used to carry them. Wasn't it the farewell Israel they tried to arrest you for? What was the thing
in Congress that they wanted you arrested for saying it was a campaign violation? Well, that was
gruesome. My real father and it was only defeated by three to three. Luckily, the three Republican
commissioners on the FEC would not go along with crushing free speech. Otherwise, I would have been
sent up to the justice department for prosecution. I'm a media outlet. I'm a documentary filmmaker.
So it's well established. I have a media exemption just like CNN, just like info wars.
Well, I mean, I mean, the same chairlady was she was privileged. She wanted me arrested too
and drive. She said all we were the three she singled out and she said that we were all involved
in illegal campaign operations. That was their allegation. And luckily, mine died three to three,
but it was very serious. Just because it ended three to three, it's still through a cast a chill
across a conservative filmmaker. Oh yeah, mine too. Mine too. Exactly. If Hillary would have
got into another chairperson, they'd had four, they would have us. I mean, they would put us
in jail like anesthesies. They would add one more commissioner to break the ties. And anytime a
complaint came against a conservative or someone expressing an opinion that was not leftist,
they would have brought us up for charges and fines at the FEC. And free speech, first amendment
would just be one of many amendments that Hillary would be canceling along with the second and the
10th. And I can't believe we're just calmly talking about this. This is the left that,
you know, if you try to stop their bomb making, they say you're censoring them,
but they're on the streets attacking us. They're blocking us online. Europe's announcing anything
conservative. Our libertarian or nationalist will be banned. They're working with the big tech
companies to do it, the big social networks. I mean, they, what about Europe though? Is Europe
lost? We see a big nationalist awakening, but their response there is just to go full,
whole hog with US companies working with them to censor. Shouldn't the Justice Department,
our own government and the trustbusters break them up for engaging in authoritarian activities?
I mean, even though it's overseas, that's still criminal.
Look, they should have broken up. They should break them up just like they did in the late 60s,
FBI, Operation Paperclip, all kinds of operations to break up the radical left that were
allowing themselves with the Cuban intelligence. They were taking money from terrorist groups.
Bill Ayers went over to Vietnam. He went to Cuba. I have a document from the FBI that Bill Ayers
took money from the... Sanders had his honeymoon in the 70s in Moscow. Sorry. Yeah, this is who
we're dealing with. So look, there's a book out called by Douglas Murray called The Strange Death
of Europe. And it talks about how only the Western leftist mentality says, we need more
diversity. We need more Somalians. We need more people from India. We need more people from all
these third world countries. But you don't see people in India saying, you know, we need some
more Texans. We're just not going to be happy unless we get some Texans here in Bombay. Or if...
But I'll say this about the Indians. On average, they're the highest grossing group in the country.
They're all friendly. Most of the Indians I know. In fact, every Indian I know is... I'm
frozen by a few Indian Americans. They love Trump. Well, you've got very successful groups
of people that come from other countries. The argument that Trump is making, which is the same
as they do in Canada and Australia, is a merit-based system. Let's have people apply and we'll vet
people so we get people that can support themselves and create business. So why do you think Indians
compared to all... Is that the only group that demographically votes Republican? Why do you think
Indian Americans like Trump so much? Oh, the Indian Americans understand free enterprise. They
understand how hard it is in a socialist system. They come from India that had many, many years
of socialism and poverty. And they just see the opportunity that when the government gets out of
the way, that they can prosper. So you have a very, very strong and successful and vibrant
community of Indian Americans that start businesses. I have a couple of friends here in LA that
are just fantastic entrepreneurs. It's just amazing what they accomplish. I was about to say,
Indians are the per capita richest group. The top nine are Asian groups. And they are... Oh,
but now the left even says, don't let them go with degrees. Have affirmative action against
Asians now. Well, it's endless the way the leftist narrative changes when it doesn't work out.
Remember global warming, you don't hear that anymore. Now it's climate change. So if there's a
hurricane or if the sun comes up, it's climate change and we got to give more money to leftist
causes. The narrative of the left is so bankrupt. I really believe that Americans are finding out
and understanding really through the impetus of Donald Trump and him standing up to these narratives
that you don't just have to accept and believe what you're what you're being fed. All right,
Joel Gilbert. Thank you so much, my friend. Come back very soon. Every time he's on,
we gotta get this guy on more. He's so smart. Thank you, Joel Gilbert. The new film,
Trump, the Art of the Insult, will be right back with Jack Busovic. Here is the trailer for the film
available at infowarstore.com.
Throw him out into the call. Don't give him their coat. No coats.
I have never seen a human being eat in such a disgusting fashion.
The most dishonest human being. These people right here, look at all the cameras.
It's so disgusting. This socialist, last communist, crazy bird. He's crazy as a midwife.
Pocahontas. Very offensive. I'm sorry about that. Pocahontas.
Crooked Hillary. Crooked Hillary, Bob. She's been crooked from the beginning. Crooked Hillary.
Good.
Politicians are really dishonest. Yeah.
Donald Trump alleges that my dad was involved in assassinating JFK. This had nothing to do
with me, except I might have pointed it out. This guy was sweating so badly. Thank God he has
really large ears, the biggest ears I've ever seen, because they were protecting him. I'm trying
to be nice. You know, I'm working hard to be nice. He was begging for my endorsement. I could have
said, Mitt, dropped Yanis. He would have dropped to his knees. He put glasses on, so people will
think he's smart. It just doesn't work. You know, people can see through the glasses.
I'll make three or four major speeches. She makes a speech for 15 minutes. He goes home,
goes to bed. We live off Chinese manufacturing. That's because when you say we, you are stupid.
Repeat after me. Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency.
That's not going to happen. So help me God. Congratulations, Mr. President.
We will make America great again. Go home to mommy.
All right, folks. The film available now at infowarstore.com, the art of the insult.
Jack Pasobic did a great job, ladies and gentlemen there in New York at that big event.
Jack, we're going to break it in about 40 seconds, but tell us what's coming up.
We are going to talk about all about that event. We're going to talk about the amazing event that
was held inside as well as the antifa attack that happened outside. Someone got put in the hospital,
but we had Chelsea Manning inside who was welcomed and treated fairly and politely.
So you can see the contrast. You can see the difference.
Absolutely. Jack Pasobic, great patriot and leads one of the biggest Trump groups in the election.
Also, I got out of his member of the Naval Intelligence, even though I was involved in the
campaign in that. By the left, they say the president likes him and tweets him. He can't
be a naval intelligence. The president can't like you and have you be an officer in the Navy.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs. Polistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life. NASA PAC technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to
eat right from the PAC bacon. Or warm and served. Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10-year shelf
life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the best
for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The
Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goberkey.com.
Feel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWarsLife. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again. You
can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates,
so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste,
use Carnivore by InfoWarsLife. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found an extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen block. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose,
itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production. And against studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials, now we are introducing the fruit of the research,
a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress,
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now
at InfoWarsLife.com or by calling toll-free. Triple A 253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Waging War on Corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Folks, it's Jack Passovic sitting in today, the big fourth hour here on InfoWars, and wow,
what a weekend, what an absolutely amazing weekend we had, a weekend for liberty, a weekend for
patriotism, a weekend where the lovers and defenders of this country were able to meet
together, were able to rise up and face those forces that stand against us. It happened all
throughout New York City, and let me tell you, those dark forces, the Antipa, the Women's March,
they were out in full force to try and stop us, but they were unable to because we uninhibited
and celebratory held an amazing, super wonderful event.
Thousand people were there, lots of news, so much I want to break down. The Women's Event,
you guys saw them all out in New York City. They said, why would you have an event the same weekend
as the Women's March? And I said, because it's the time to celebrate the one-year anniversary
of our president being inaugurated, the one-year anniversary of the day that everything began
to change in America. The people came back into power to take back our White House and to take
back the reins of government in the United States. That's why we held that night. And let me tell
you something folks, in my speech that I delivered, actually what I did was I read Ragged Old Flag by
Johnny Cash. If you guys know that one, it's an ode to our American flag. I don't even think I said
the word Trump once in the entire night. And the reason for that is, is because this movement
isn't about one man. It's not about one individual, right? President Trump, he is the one who focused
all of it, but there's so much deeper meaning to what's going on. It ties back all the way
to our founding. It ties back all the way to our flag. And I had to bring Johnny Cash in there.
I had to set that up. But Antifa found out about the event. And so Antifa decided to crash it.
And I think we've got a video here of me. I went out and confronted Antifa. And thankfully,
the New York Police Department, they actually set up barricades. And then there was a chain-link
fence where they couldn't get through to me. But you see them there on the film. They see me.
They start screaming about our children. They say, send out your children. And when I see your kids,
they start banging on the fence with their two by fours. You see, when we always show up to
protest or rallies, sure, we'll bring a sign. And we'll hold it up high and say where this is what
our sign is. Antifa always puts their signs on two by fours. So why did they do that? They put
those on two by fours because then they can flip them over and use them as weapons. And that's
what I'm talking about there on screen. I'm saying they left weapons and they're banging them. You
could see them banging them against the fence, coming at me like caged animals, screaming.
Don't even know why they don't like me. They don't even know what the reason is. But I'm telling you,
if the police hadn't been there, if that very fence hadn't been there, I'm only feet away.
They would have come up. They would have sworn to me. It would not have gone well. So a big thank
you to the New York Police Department. You can see them there as I walk behind me. And they were
screaming, saying they wanted to attack our very children. They wanted to go after our children.
In fact, James O'Keeffe, who was attending the event at the point where he left, they actually
chased O'Keeffe down the street. So when he got there, I went down and met him. I brought him upstairs.
I said, O'Keeffe, glad you're here. Glad you're able to come. Let's get up. Let's get through
security. Walked him through. He had to leave. He had to bounce somewhere. But when he left,
Antifa started chasing him down the street. Now, fortunately, had a car waiting. He was able to
get in. He was safe. But later on in the event, or after the event, I should say, one of our
supporters, one of our guests, a 56-year-old man was leaving the event. Antifa chased him
down the street, assaulted and strangled this man. And so this Antifa, 30-year-old guy,
was charged with strangulation blocking of the airway. Actually blocking of the airway,
just for attending an event, a pro-Trump event. There was a terrorist attack. Because remember,
by the words of the classification of FBI and the Department of Homeland Security,
Antifa has been classified as a terrorist organization. They loitered outside waiting
to catch someone by themselves. This guy was walking. I think he was gonna catch a cab or
an Uber, and they assaulted him. He was strangled. Now, we've talked to the victim. The victim is
secure. He's actually went to the hospital. He was declared stable. He's actually currently
recuperating and resting at home. And we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that he's safe.
If he needs anything, we're gonna take care of it. On the other hand, the terrorist who did this to
him, he's going to jail. Prosecutors are already looking at it, and there's gonna be big jail
time associated with this attack. And hopefully, we'll be able to use some of it to actually prosecute
the Antifa groups. Not only the man who conducted this attack, the child, the man child, this 30-year-
old, pasty white boy, but the actual group that instigated the entire thing. And the fact that
different online supporters or enemies, you should say enemies of ours, encouraged this attack to
take place. We found what happened was the location, which we kept secret, was doxxed, was sent out
online. There was a reporter there, and it said, and they even attacked the reporter who was there.
Not even someone who was there reporting the event. He was recording, he was trying to tape,
and they went and attacked the recorder, the guy who was just trying to tape it, the reporter.
So anyone who was complicit in the instigation and the execution of this attack is going to be
prosecuted, we're gonna look at all of it. And New York prosecutors can see this as a slam dunk
case, because what it is, is quite simply, quite simply. So there he is, David Campbell,
Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Crown Heights, by the way, is not one of the poorer areas of Brooklyn.
That is a very well-to-do area. So this guy, I don't know if his rich parents are paying his way,
but you always see that with these Antifa types, right? And then they come and they see us,
and he doesn't even know who this person is, who he was assaulted. He wasn't one of the speakers.
He wasn't someone who was there espousing support for Trump or anything. He just went to an event.
He literally just went to an event, and yet that was enough for these Antifa terrorists to go and
attack him, to go and assault him, to literally put him in the hospital. Put into the hospital
in New York City, United States of America, American soil for attending an event for freedom.
That's where we are at this point. That's where we are that someone gets put into the hospital
because you went to an event to support freedom. Well, no more, because it's against the law
and the groups that are perpetuating this type of terrorism, this type of violence,
need to be stopped. They need to be investigated. They need to be prosecuted,
and they need to be put behind bars. We've always stood for peace. And I thank God,
I thank God that the NYPD were there, because if they hadn't stopped him, the choking, the
strangulation, who knows what would have happened after this. So I was actually inside when this
happened. It says that at one point, he actually even tried to put a police officer in a headlock.
Let me tell you something. When you try to put the NYPD in a headlock, you're gonna lose that
fight. Let me tell you right now, sorry, Antifa, you're gonna lose that fight. And this guy,
David Campbell, he lost that one. You don't go up against the NYPD and try to put him in a headlock.
Not a good idea. But I want to take a second really quick. Here we are at the end of the
segment to let you guys know about a great new product that's just out from Infowars Life,
and it's called pollen block. It's this incredible product. So because it's new,
it's the introductory price. It's $17, 1776. Get it, 1776, 50% off. And it's all about pollen
season, folks. We hate it when pollen season starts. It's constantly attacking our scientists. We
feel like we have no choice. You wanna stay indoors the entire time? No, you go out, you can use
the pollen block. It will support you with that seasonal discomfort. It's gonna help support
healthy sinus function, respiratory function, clear your airways, and allow you to have normal
breathing. It's so great. As we go into that season, the quail egg concentrate is where it
comes from. And it's amazing to have this seasonal product now available at Infowars Life. So make
sure you guys go and check out pollen block. We'll be right back with more about today.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with
detergents? Are you happy paying high prices? Find your happiness with pure soap. These all-natural,
earth-friendly, pure soaps are the very best you've ever used. Buy in bulk. Get a 12,
36, or 48-month supply. Or get items individually and still save big. You're getting soap products
twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly, and natural soaps. Your family deserves the
best. Happiness is five-star soap.com. Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at five-star soap.com. Or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog. Cal Bend Soap Company can save
you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at five-star
soap.com. That's F-I-V-E-star-soap.com. Or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Yeah, hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long-time listener of
N4s, and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic,
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the N4. It might seem like a simple thing,
but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me,
and it's a big Deglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag,
infowars.com on the right arm. I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people
and spread the word and also exercise free speech. And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt.
Trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign in the infowars.com
on the back. That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowars.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get
you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
It's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're under attack, we need your help.
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not gonna just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards. Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank! I need your help, Frank!
Go to InfowarsStore.com right now and help fund the Infowars.
If you understand, I need your help, Frank.
Free press needs your help, Frank.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center and the heart of the Resistance.
What's going on, folks? Jack
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center and the heart of the Resistance.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Jack, we're still back rounding out the big fourth hour here and we actually have breaking news from Washington, DC.
So I'm here in Washington, DC.
I got down from New York this weekend, but the government was shut down over the weekend.
And I just have a quick question for everyone out in the listening audience.
Did you notice that the government was apparently shut down for three days?
Honestly, I didn't notice.
I didn't really notice very much.
Didn't notice any difference.
I may have felt a little freer.
I felt like I may have had a little bit more liberty over the weekend.
Kind of say that was nice, but yeah, it didn't really find any major significant impact in my day-to-day life from the government being shut down.
Pretty much seemed like everything that affected us and affected our lives was still there.
But the Democrats that led this shutdown, led by Chuck Schumer in the US Senate, they've caved.
They've completely and utterly caved.
They've dropped.
We've got the 60 votes.
The government shutdown is over.
They've totally caved to completely and utterly give Trump everything that he wanted.
What did they get out of it?
Nothing.
They blinked.
They tried to go into an eye-to-eye stare with the president, the man who wrote Art of the Deal.
Why would you try to hard negotiate with the man who wrote Art of the Deal?
Honestly, the man is a best-selling author who's most known for tough negotiation.
You don't try to do that.
You assume he is going to beat you and then you just try to skip that part and actually talk about what you can get out of the deal.
You don't try to do the hard negotiation because he destroys you.
And Schumer, oh my goodness.
People were saying, boy, I thought Steve Bannon had a bad January.
Schumer, he goes, hold my vodka.
This guy tried to go toe-to-toe with the dealmaker in chief and he lost.
He embarrassed himself.
He embarrassed the Democrat Party.
81 votes they just got on the motion to get rid of this thing because they all thought even his own party realized what stupid of an idea this was.
And they were completely destroyed because here's the thing.
The Democrats, what was their talking point throughout the entire time?
It was DACA, right?
They kept talking about DACA, DACA, DACA, DACA.
We need DACA.
We've got to help DACA.
And Trump, on the other hand, and everyone on the right, turned around and said, so you're putting illegal immigrants over the needs of the American citizens that you actually represent in Congress.
You know, your job, the people who pay your wages, who pay your salary, who pay for your junkets around the world.
Those are the people.
No, you're not representing them.
You're representing illegal immigrants.
You're fighting for the rights of illegal immigrants.
And that's why you've decided to shut down the government.
Even the New York Times admitted that it was the Democrats who shut down the government.
So when even the New York Times is calling you out, you know you've done something a little bit foolish.
And Schumer, I mean, his negotiating tactic, I don't quite understand what it is.
It's we're going to shut down the government, hold the government hostage, and then get nothing in return, give the Republicans everything they want, give Trump everything he wants, and walk away like cowards.
Not exactly sure that's the kind of face you want to be showing when you're in a midterm election year and you're trying to show leadership.
There's a great line from Schumer as well.
He said, well, in the negotiations, I couldn't understand what was going on.
We would sit down with Trump and first he would say one thing, then he would say something else that would sound like he completely flip flopped and disagreed with what he said before.
He said this thing, he said that thing.
He was completely confused, had no idea what was going on.
And then Schumer left the president's, I guess, the Oval Office and had no idea what was going on because, guys, that's what Trump does.
He wrote a book about this.
You could have read it.
It's like 1995.
It's 20 bucks.
You guys, you make less, more than that per diem.
Go buy a copy of Art of the Deal, but you won't because you're lazy and you're stupid because you don't understand what it's like dealing with the master negotiator like President Trump.
He wanted you to be confused.
He does the exact same thing with foreign relations where he says things that make you think he's a madman and he's a madman.
That could be wrong.
But when he says these things, he wants you confused and they say, well, he doesn't understand the negotiations.
Well, he said 10 different topics.
We have no idea what the president wants.
Exactly.
He wanted you to think that.
And they said, we can't talk to this guy.
This guy's nuts.
We'll go talk to McConnell and McConnell says, all right, here's what we're going to do.
We're going to open the government.
You guys are going to stop standing up for illegal immigrants and then you're going to go home.
And they said, fine.
And so the left is losing their minds at Schumer.
They're saying, how could you do this?
You put the entire credibility of our party on the line for this and you folded.
You folded like a cheap suit.
Should have read Art of the Deal.
Should have read Art of the Deal, Chucky Boy.
That's all I got to say.
I don't understand this tactic.
If there's a name for it, you call it the Schumer strategy, I guess.
The Schumer strategy is you hold the government hostage and then you give up without asking for anything in return.
Not exactly sure how you win at poker when you lose every hand of cards and you always lose the bet.
Not exactly sure how that's a winning strategy, Chuck.
And I've got to give a huge hand, a huge hand to our president here.
Because this shows the power of Donald Trump, the man, not just the president, but Donald Trump, the man when it comes to these types of negotiations,
which he's known for throughout New York, where he's known for being the best.
And people used to laugh.
People used to laugh when Trump's supporters said they'd get sick of winning.
And there you go.
Boom.
The Wall Street Journal admitting that it's called the Schumer surrender.
We've got the Schumer, first we have the Schumer shutdown and now we've got the Schumer surrender.
See, that alliteration always works, by the way.
It always works when you can use that alliteration.
It's catchy.
Schumer shutdown.
Schumer shutdown.
It sticks in your head.
Now that I've said it a few times, you can't stop thinking about it because it's that great.
And now Schumer surrender.
It's getting me.
Schumer surrender.
That's a bit of a tongue twister.
Stay at 10 times fast.
I don't think you can.
That's what the president does.
He gets into these negotiations and he wins.
He brings home a win for the American people first.
It's America first.
President said that he agrees that we should come up with a way to deal with the dreamers fairly.
That they should be vetted.
That it should be gone through and looked on a case by case basis.
And that they should be treated fairly and compassionately.
And I think most people would say yes, that that's fair.
That we have to look to see, are there people who have committed crimes?
Well, they need to go first.
Are there people that, what are they doing here?
Are they living off of welfare?
Are they starting businesses?
Those people, all of those things need to be looked at, right?
He already was going to do it.
He was going to do it anyway.
He had told the Democrats that.
But then last week, they completely blew up these negotiations because Durban came out
and started making these crazy statements.
And the president said, fine, you know what?
You need to talk to you people.
You guys are going to lie about me.
You're going to mischaracterize what I said in a private meeting.
You're going to operate and negotiate in bad faith.
Then I don't need to talk to you and I'm done.
That's how you negotiate, ladies and gentlemen.
That's how you negotiate.
And just as a quick thing to kind of put out here towards the end of this, because I know
it's been in the news so much over the weekend talking about these FBI text messages.
That supposedly the FBI lost five months, probably thousands of text messages between Peter Struck
and his mistress, Lisa Page, his Jezebel, if you were.
They lost five months of this.
And keep in mind, the media keeps calling them, oh, he's just an agent.
He's just an FBI agent.
No, he's the deputy director of the Counterintelligence Division.
This is someone who does false flags off co for a living.
He does these type of operations.
He knows how all of this stuff works.
And I've got to say, the FBI technical system, so that means they lost it on his Blackberry,
her Blackberry, the system that actually runs the router that runs the text messages,
and the archive server as well, all lost the text messages at the same time somehow.
Folks, we know what that means, unless the only explanation that I would accept at this point
that who was running your IT, the A1 brothers, a couple of nice A1 brothers out of Pakistan
like we had with Ted Liu and Debbie Wasserman Schultz over at the DNC side.
Or maybe we could actually ask the A1 brothers.
Maybe they do actually have these text messages.
So people are smelling it for what it is, and they say this is fishy and it stinks.
Because they know that all of the text messages that have come out so far,
they talk about an insurance policy.
They talk about Lynch knowing that there were going to be no charges against Clinton.
How would you know that before the investigation ended?
Now my sources, people I've talked to in DC, state that what is in those missing text messages
is absolutely damning for them and for the FBI and these agents,
the deputy director of the Counterintelligence Division,
who was running the Russia investigation, who was running the Hillary email investigation,
that it talks about potentially another further insurance policy
that could be used against President Trump.
And the time period, and this is key, the time period that they're missing
was the transition period and the first days of the Trump administration.
There you go, Hillary Clinton emails deleted, NSA emails deleted, FBI text messages deleted.
Imagine going to the FBI when you're under investigation saying,
I'm sorry, I deleted all of those records that you guys wanted.
Right, try telling that to the IRS in April.
I'm so sorry, I deleted all of my receipts for this year, but don't worry about it.
There's nothing in there, folks.
That is the deep state right there telling you that they are losing,
that they are on the ropes because Trump and this movement of new nationalism
and new patriotism that's sweeping the land is pushing back against them.
They know their hour is up, they know they're reaching the end of the line
and it's because of the info warriors and people like you listening today.
Thank you so much for listening.
Jack Prasovic, catch me on Twitter.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country
that if you want proven studies and documentation,
I'm going to speak for hours just on the files I have here,
of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year,
but immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more.
It is concentrated.
You need to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate.
A citrus peel blend.
I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen.
Immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Beta-glucan, olive leaf, and more.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
