Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War. One thing is 100% crystal clear, ladies and gentlemen, and it's that the private
Federal Reserve has raised interest rates more on President Trump in the last 13 months
than it did in eight years of Barack Hussein Obama, and that raising interest rates will
put a damper on the fast growing economy. And of course, the stock market being a major
engine of that economy when it's coupled with a reindustrialization, retooling, and of course,
rebuild of the infrastructure, all of which we are in a headlong assault right now against
the globalist to try to turn the Republic back on before it's too late. And if you needed
a cherry on top, as we've been predicting this, the clips are all coming out in the
next segment, if you needed more added evidence, they've been bragging about it. They've been
talking about it. They've been trying to talk down the stock market. And then ABC News yesterday
had news alerts, when it had only dropped 400 points, saying news alerts, the stock market
crashed. A crash is more than half of a market. They've got lots of other names like Bloody
Friday or Dark This or Dark That. But we would have had to have lost 6,000 plus points in
the stock market, 6,013 points on top of the 1500 plus close to 1600 points. So we're talking
close to 8,000 points. It would have had to have fallen. The stock market's up 40% on
the Dow Jones industrial average history in the last 13 months. Well, 15 of you count
since he was president-elect, technically. And look, it's a big bubble. It's dangerous.
You name it. And it's regained a few hundred points from yesterday. But it's our bubble.
And the Communist Chinese are on record, putting many times more of their yin and yang in to
prop up their stock market. And if you talk down their stock market, you get imprisoned
or even executed. To all the people that are cheerleading for China and saying it's in a
better position, it's not because of the cultural disparity of rich versus poor and the fact
that they are totally maxed out and have low energy stores and a lot of other factors.
I don't wish China bad. But the globalists have put their eggs in that basket. Lloyd
Blank finds bragged about it as Twitter feed. And they're betting on an American collapse
in a Chinese century. That's the religion of the Council on Foreign Relations and the
globalist for 40 years. Look it up yourself. You've all heard in the Economist magazine
everywhere, the breathless Chinese century that's coming and they've got all the technology
and, you know, they'll kill Christians and Buddhists and sell their organs and they've
got one child policies. Why? They're really progressive. They're totally bad in Christianity.
The left in Hollywood likes it. Can't watch any show that's supposedly based in the future
from Netflix or Hollywood that isn't China centric, China file. No Americanism. It's
all global Chinism or China would. It's all built on sand. And if America gets its morals
back and gets its optimism back, nothing can stand in our way and we will raise the
entire planet as we did for our first 170 plus years, 180 plus years. Really the first
200. And they know that that's why globalism is up against Americanism. That's why Trump
is now told his greatest truth yet saying Democrats are like death on American and treasonous.
That video is straight ahead.
This is
mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Now we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically
proven to have.
So I've just got this brush today, literally the seal's not even being opened on it, it's
just 29.95 again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules in this bottle.
It is Bodys, the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market available right
now at InfowarsStore.com, get it today.
You are listening to an Infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide its Alex Jones.
And it's tomorrow's news today.
In fact, just yesterday in the second hour, I talked about the fact that we're on top
of a giant bubble and that it could be imploded by the Federal Reserve raising interest rates
at any time, but that it's all Trump could do to have a bubble for the people instead
of the globalist.
Just like you give a dying person an adrenaline shot, hoping it brings them back to life and
sometimes it makes their heart explode instead of saving them.
As we were talking, the organized plunge had begun and we 100% know that Goldman Sachs
and JP Morgan and other big trading arms of those combines had their automatic computers
that's being reported by CNBC said that when the market dropped just a few hundred points,
they had been pre-programmed to a lower threshold to kick into auto selling because it had dropped
a couple hundred points a few weeks ago, a few months ago.
They had already decided they go, oh, it's the computers, but who programs the computers?
It's like, oh, the computers decide who do not give healthcare under bioethics.
By the Watson computer named after a top Nazi, Thomas Watson, the computer decides to stop
giving you food and water and kill you.
It's okay, but who programs it?
So Goldman Sachs and others with their patented and Bloomberg's involved in it as well with
his own system, super fast trading systems that can siphon billions off a day, basically
swindling your regular traders, they had it programmed at a very low threshold, not
where it plunged at thousand points or 2,000 points, but if it went down a couple hundred
points, they're saying it's all proprietary, but the stock traders on Wall Street saw it
all kick in when the market dropped 200 points and then as soon as it fell, other groups
that had theirs set at a higher threshold where it had to be a bigger plunge than they
all started kicking in.
And then you saw the plunge protection team, obviously Trump calling up the Federal Reserve
and going, I will fire you right now if you don't stop that.
And then they play the game of, oh, yes, sir, we'll stop that right now.
So it was artificially plunged by the public hearing, oh my gosh, uncertainty, the country's
in a civil war, the Federal Reserve is going to raise interest rates a lot.
They've already raised it in the last 13 months, more than eight years of Obama.
That drove things down and we noticed some of the big top firms were selling, some of
the top Apple guys, some of the top Amazon guys, some of the top Facebook people.
They were all selling the hour before, just enough to start the dip and then the auto
trading kicked in.
So last week, what did we say about them raising interest rates yet again?
And saying that they need to go up even more, we said that could kill the market and everybody
else that does research said that.
And then meanwhile, not just yesterday, but today, Robo Advisor websites have been crashing,
locking out traders from their accounts.
So you also have the big companies, not just because of the volume, but locking people
out.
It's famous.
They're famous for doing that so that they can control the trades and so they can get
out, but you can't get out.
They can pre-program the computers on what they're going to allow to go down.
They can set how much they're going to let it go down, then they can go in and start
their sales, but knowing it's going to trigger a panic, they cannot let you sell until they
know the plunge protection team's going to kick back in, then they go in and turn the
control back off.
And it's just the little guys, the middle size, the big mega ones, the big banks, foreign
governments, they're all in our stock market just scamming away and making money off, riding
it down and riding it up, riding it down and riding it up.
And I know this, you know this, we all know this.
The point is Trump engineered it so that a lot of the money would actually go to Main
Street and go to reindustrialization and retooning and infrastructure.
And that's why all these foreign companies go, yes, we are moving here because they're
setting the climate up to help that.
So I put this out yesterday saying, oh, high frequency trading preset sell points by Goldman
Sachs.
That's the biggest in the world.
They run it.
They're the top people.
They're on record.
It's in the news that they had pre-sale settings, though it's not their fault.
We had preset settings.
You set the computer.
It's like saying, oh, the house is 70 degrees.
I can't control it.
It's a computer.
You control the thermostat.
So I said, oh, Goldman Sachs needs to be investigated.
And others for setting the threshold very, very low.
And by that, it barely drops, the threshold's very low to start mass selling.
They had it on a hair trigger.
Or you look at the other way and say it was set very, very high in a hair trigger where
there was any drop.
It happened.
But I see it as low.
If you want to set the threshold, we have to have a lot of drop.
That's a high threshold.
A low threshold is it barely drops.
You start panic selling.
Potato patata, it depends on how you want to look at it.
It's the same thing, just different ways of looking at a glass half full, half empty.
So we know that happened.
And we know they've been cheerleading for the market to go down.
But because of incredible exuberance, they've not been able to do it.
So the media attacked me and said, Jones claims it's a conspiracy and that there's some type
of hanky-panky going on.
We all know big banks and brokerage firms never do anything in the stock market.
It's completely above board.
But meanwhile, today, the financial riders and many others are coming out and agreeing
with what I said yesterday with Michael Sabich yesterday, that clearly this is an attack
on Trump.
Here it is from Michael Sabich on infowars.com by Paul Joseph Watson.
Michael Sabich thinks stock market plunges a deep state plot to destroy Trump.
We'll play a clip of that, but see, here's just one clip I found this morning, July 21st
of last year, Federal Reserve attempted to kill Trump economic boom with their policies
of raising interest rates then and talking down the economy.
And I said he used to get rid of Yellen and put his own person in, but the Federal Reserve
is private.
It does what it wants.
Okay.
It's a fourth branch of government above the law that's not governmental in the words
of Alan Greenspan.
In fact, let's find that later.
No rush.
He was on PBS News Hour like seven years ago and he goes, well, the headline is Alan
Greenspan says the Federal Reserve is above the law.
He actually says it.
No one can stop us.
Not courts, not Congress, not the president, not the people since 1913.
Now over a hundred years ago, we rule you.
So here's Michael Sabich.
And then when I come back, we'll play the clip from July, but here's Dr. Savage.
The feds are doing this on purpose by running up interest rates to weaken Donald Trump, whose
strongest calling card is the economy.
Remember Trump triumphed over Mueller and the nation last week, weak, with the release
of that memo.
Never mind what little Adam Schiff says.
Adam Schiff is a fraud, a phony, an empty suit.
Robert Hall doesn't even have a suit that would fit him.
They're trying to destroy Trump's strongest card, which is the economy.
Mueller has gone nowhere with his fake Russia investigation.
Trump's stirring so to speech last week was so great that even CBS admitted 75% of the
people who watched it, approved of it and loved it.
So what happened right afterwards?
The establishment, meaning the deep state, call it whatever you want, went into overdrive
to destroy Trump or try to destroy him where he is strongest because they couldn't get
him where they thought he was weakest.
And so they're taking the market down, they're trying to hurt you.
They are the enemies of the average American.
Make no mistake about it, they're going for you.
These people are so evil and so power drunk that they'd burn the nation to the ground
rather than let Donald Trump live another day in office.
Do you understand this?
Absolute pure truth, 100% truth, crystallized in a minute and a half as only Dr. Savage
can do it.
All the proof and now we predicted it and laid it all out on the other side and they've
bragged about doing this as well because remember, they're just going to buy it up when it's
low and jack it back up later, but it hurts you and the economy will be back.
Stay with us.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to
keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org.
Don't be caught without a disaster shelter.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed
available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
At infowarslife.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWarslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charged your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big brother mainstream media government coverups you want answers well so does he it's Alex
Jones on the GCN radio network.
Ladies and gentlemen we are back live broadcasting worldwide I am your host Alex Jones.
We're going to be here for the next three and a half hours and of course the war rooms
coming up with Owen Schreuer as well.
We are witnessing premeditated committed economic warfare
against this country.
The foreign governments and foreign empires are willing to take over countries and burn
down whole cities and bomb entire nations for power and control.
Would they be willing to assassinate a president?
Would they be willing to start a race war?
Would they be willing to try to tank a stock market to kill a recovery when their whole
global system is based on bringing down the nation state?
Well the answer is they wouldn't be willing.
They would be committed to that and they would be carrying exactly that out.
And that's what's happened.
And they think you're stupid.
The private run for profit Federal Reserve has raised interest rates more on President
Trump and the American people in the last 13 months than it did in the entirety of eight
years of Barack Hussein Obama.
They gave low interest rates to the establishment but banks didn't give low interest rates to
the citizens.
Trump has instructed the banks to do so.
The Federal Reserve has been bucking him but many regional and national banks have been
loaning and that's why you've seen record new small company expansions and startups
that we've ever seen, now even better than Ronald Reagan.
So they've already raised it a bunch.
Now they're raising it three more times in 2018.
They announced that last Friday and on the next trading day the stock market fell thousands
of points before rebounding a couple hundred points.
And then I get up here on air and I talk about it and mainstream media says it's a conspiracy
theory because they think you're stupid.
You've seen CNBC, you've seen MSNBC, you've seen the New York Times, all talk down the
market, all talk down the low unemployment, CNN, all of them tell you that the economy
really isn't good and that it's underlying bad and that it's all going to explode, it's
all a big bubble.
They've been living off the bubble for themselves and not letting you have any of the bubble.
They've gotten even richer under Trump last year.
Bezos has made twenty something billion dollars but you notice he's been selling a lot of
it and buying whole foods and buying newspapers and buying factories and buying, in fact the
headline was last week, Bezos bought more last week than he bought the previous year.
The headline was, I saw a bunch of headlines, Bezos buying everything, Bezos buying everything
he can get his hands on because he knew they were getting ready to start bringing the stock
market down this week.
His whole empire is built on $1.48 on every package he ships a taxpayer money and almost
all his employees are on food stamps.
His whole system is about bringing us down.
Now the whole foods workers are getting their pay cut and their hours increased and overtime
taken away and the food's not going to be really organic anymore and they're shipping
crap in and the shelves are empty at the time as it's just on time delivery.
Driving workers to cry regularly just like the Washington Post, they hailed him two
years ago when he bought it as the leftist savior.
Now they walk into board meetings and say you all need to shut the bleep up.
You're going to get your pay cut, a lot of you are going to be on the street.
Phase one, we come in, we tell everything's great.
Phase two, we gang rape you.
I'm Bezos.
I'm in league with Apple that's got the slave factories.
But I'm trendy and that's all that matters.
Long as you're at trendy, everything is A-O-K.
So you could see them all maneuvering last week, selling, selling, selling, selling,
selling at the peak and then bleep on Monday.
And then they're going to panic everything further and tell Trump, you don't start working
with us and rolling over, we're going to do the one thing you don't want and that's destroy
America.
Well, guess what?
They're going to do it anyway.
So let's go out to break here with a clip, Federal Reserve attempting to kill Trump
economic recovery.
This was the six month anniversary of Trump being sworn in and here is my warning that
came exactly true and of course we have them even admitting they're doing this.
But in a mind game, then when you say something, they go, oh, no, we didn't do that.
Here it is.
Today is the six month anniversary of his inauguration and his announcement to kill
the TPP, to renegotiate NAFTA and GATT, to kill the carbon tax, to control our borders
and he's delivered in a royal flush.
But the headlines from CNN and the New York Times, the Washington Post, MSNBC, ABC, NBC,
CBS is, Trump doesn't get one piece of major legislation through, Trump's a failure, Trump's
in shambles, Trump's under criminal investigation.
And yes, he hasn't gotten any major legislation, meaning cat tax cuts or Obamacare repeal through,
but a lot of other stuff that is actually major has gotten through massive regulations
cut and he's gotten so much done via the executive branch because they were unconstitutionally
doing most of their globalist agenda through it, he was able to turn that back on them
and kill it and then watch the economy go from sputtering and faltering and stalling
and roaring back.
And now the Federal Reserve announces huge increases coming in the next few months toward
the previous increases of the amount of money you have to pay to borrow and as the interest
increases it's a wet blanket trying to stop the American system that empires have been
trying to stop for 242 years.
This is an amazing time to be alive and I just tell it like it is ladies and gentlemen,
Trump has delivered and it is just over the top bizarre to see all these liars and scumbags
sit there and spew their lies with a straight face because it is so over the top ridiculous.
That's right.
When we saw the leftist media celebrate and go oh look the economy is going down, Trump
was speaking in Ohio at a factory, he looks stupid, he's dumb, America is going down,
down, down with America, oh but Trump is a Russian agent, he wants to hurt America but
we're sharing against America because we're the globalist scum.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years, I've helped thousands and I can
help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, DanPilla.com.
Every year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, let me speak for hours, just on the files
I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this, this is the ultimate
immune system boost for this time of year, anytime of the year.
But immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here, the mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend, I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Great, gluten, olive leaf, and more, immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com or
triple-A, 253-33139.
InfoWarsLive is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block, in the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production, they began studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll-free, triple-A, 253-33139.
Former Facebook and Google employees are speaking out against what they say are societal dangers
posed by social media and smartphones.
The group recently formed the Center for Humane Technology and they're on a mission to highlight
the ill effects associated with the very social networks they helped create.
As part of their first campaign titled The Truth About Tech, the group will target 55,000
U.S. public schools in an effort to warn students, teachers, and parents about tech addiction.
Tristan Harris, a former ethicist at Google and head of the new group, says the largest
supercomputers in the world are inside of two companies, Google and Facebook.
And where are we pointing them?
We're pointing them at people's brains.
At Children, numerous studies have linked excessive technology use among children to
depression and developmental issues.
The Center for Humane Technology also hopes to develop a ledger of harms, a site to inform
tech engineers who may be worried about what they're building.
Liam McAdooInfoWars.com You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Waging war on corruption.
This is Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
So the Dow Jones industrial average to the great frustration of the globalist is up
186 points from opening today, it's at 24,541, oscillating back and forth.
Obviously it was up last week at 26,000 in the middle of the week, but then the feds
said that they were going to raise interest rates.
They gave their details on Friday and on Monday, the market went down almost 2,000 points.
The biggest single day drop in the Dow Jones industrial average is history.
It's still not a crash because it's gained close to 8,000 points since the president
got in, or a 40% increase.
So again, all of that is up on infowars.com and newswars.com as we speak.
Now let's get into President Trump's greatest truth yet, because as the criminality of the
globalist comes out, President Trump is really taking the gloves off with these people that
believe they've captured America once and for good and believe that the huge populist
free market awakening is only a death struggle, a death agony that the vampires will be able
to sit on.
If enough of them sit on, it's like Liliputians and keep us from getting back on our feet.
But we have gotten back on our feet, and as more Americans wake up to that fact, we will
reverse the trends that they have been engaged in.
So Trump's biggest truth yet, Democrats are like death, un-American and treasonous.
We're going to go to that clip in a moment.
Trump turns up the heat on un-American nymphs silent during the State of the Union.
Can we call that treason?
It certainly shows they're out to get the country.
What MSNBC said, you can't have churches and you can't have family.
We took that away from you.
That's a bygone era.
The state is your family.
So all of it out in the open, as the globalist admittedly plunge the stock market for full
control.
Let's go to the President.
But I said we have the lowest black unemployment in the history of our country.
It was like, it was a game, you know, they play games.
They were told, don't even make a facial movement.
And I'm talking about, you have the lowest Hispanic unemployment in the history of our
country.
This isn't me saying, this is the charts, the polls.
We have the lowest in the history of our country, dead silence, not a smile.
In fact, there was one guy when I said the lowest African American unemployment, he was
sort of clapping like, who was that guy, he's a nice guy, he was a reverend.
And he was, I wouldn't say it was exactly a rousing, but he, he was putting his hands
together.
And I want to find out who he is, I'm going to send him a letter of thank you.
And he was probably severely reprimanded, don't you think Rob?
I think so, because he was the only one.
So that means they would rather see Trump do badly, okay, than our country do well.
That's what it means.
It's very selfish.
And it got to a point where I really didn't even want to look too much during the speech
over to that side, because honestly, it was bad energy.
No, it was bad energy.
You're up there, you've got half the room going totally crazy wild, they loved everything,
they want to do something great for our country.
And you have the other side, even on positive news, really positive news, like that, they
were like death.
And un-American, un-American, somebody said treasonous, I mean, yeah, I guess why not?
So we call that treason, why not?
I mean, they certainly didn't love our country very much.
But you look at that and it's really very, very sad.
So we have to keep it going because this country is turning and it's turning much faster.
And I said, I'm going to do it, but it's happening faster than I thought.
And then I saw the New York Times, the Washington Post, CNN talking point.
By the time I went and picked my kids up from school and got home yesterday, I went to home
early yesterday, I was already planning to go get them out for school and take them out
to eat and stuff and then go home and hang out.
By the time I got home at about six o'clock after picking them up and going to early dinner,
there was the talking points in my office on the two computers, the same talking point.
The embarrassing split screen, while Trump talks that the economy's up, it's plunging.
And then it showed photos of him giving the speech in Ohio at the factory and then it
showed shots of the stock market going down.
And it was just like growing up where you'd see ABC, CBS and NBC all with the same teleprompter
news in the same order for 30 minutes every night.
And it'd be the same ads a lot of times during the breaks, totally programmed and it was
the same deal.
Trump's embarrassed.
He's talking up the economy, but it's not good.
Even though you have the job startups and the wages going up and the tax cuts and the
bonuses, they go, oh, a lot of blacks are out of the workforce.
So that's why it's the lowest unemployment ever.
No, you look at the index, those working are at the highest index since they set up the
labor bureau statistics and the wages are much higher, which is the argument of the
Federal Reserve to raise interest rates saying wages are too high.
That's going to cause inflation.
When we all know they're not too high, they're still way too low because of how inflation
is.
Let me tell you, I'm not a rich guy, but I got some money and I go buy groceries and
stuff and I'm like, it hurts.
I'm like, how does an average family do this?
Inflation's been incredible.
Trump's going, well, we're in inflation because of globalism.
Might as well give them pay raises, at least they can buy some more stuff because he's
damned if he does, he's damned if he doesn't.
And it made me really angry because then I said, okay, they're not all rooting against
the economy.
And I kept looking and looking and remembering back how they kept saying, oh, the stock market's
going to go down.
Oh, these factory jobs aren't going to come back.
Oh, you'll never get to 3% growth rate.
And it's just how they're squatting on this country trying to hold us down while they
cheerlead and say the Chinese century's here and China's invincible and China's
unstoppable.
And it's the future.
Let me tell you something.
Paul Watson was married to a Chinese lady for about five years.
Nicely.
I met her a couple times, nicely.
But the point is, is that he went over there many times to hang out with her family.
He said, even in the wealthy areas, even the rural areas, just black smog comes by and
hits you in the face.
And that's why they wear masks and there's incredible corruption.
There'll be dead bodies just rotting on the side of the road.
And people crapping on the side of the street and no one helps you if you get hurt.
And they sell political dissidents organs because their crime is secretly having a church
or secretly, you know, doing feng shui or any type of other, that's Japanese, any type
of Buddhist operation.
It's just crazy.
And the left doesn't say a word about it now.
They don't care.
It's no big deal.
And Trump's really starting to become himself now behind the scenes.
I told you, he likes Christianity because the energy, he feels the spirit of it.
And you heard him though, the energy was really bad over there.
The energy over here was really great.
That's what Trump's really all about is energy.
And he doesn't like seeing poor, starving, dumb people.
He doesn't like seeing no opportunity.
He likes seeing people working hard, being empowered, being successful.
And that spirit of Trump is antithetical to the globalist.
It's the opposite of who they are.
All right, we're going to go to break.
I'm going to come back and get into huge news.
Where did you hear first that the real crimes committed at the Justice Department were paying
off their family members at Fusion GPS?
Congress talked about it last night.
When we come back, I'm going to read the news and then I'm going to give you from December
of last year, three months ago, where I said it was the key to everything.
Just pointing out why they hate us, why they say we're the number one enemy to be shut
down in congressional hearings, why Google internally says it, why foreign governments
want to shut down, why the Communist Chinese openly want to shut down, because we got their
number.
I told you years ago that the University of Texas is run by the Communist Chinese.
Two weeks ago, it was the front page of even the Washington Post had to admit it.
These intelligence was caught running the University, basically, and just jacking all
the DARPA data.
Stay where there's tomorrow's news today.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by InfoWars Life for those who want
to increase testosterone and energy levels.
Most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of
about one to two percent per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive, and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China, and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the
crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or triple-A2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us, so we need your support.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion is an infowarslife.com to secure your chemister.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great-tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion Drink Mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month's supply of essential
vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, Supermail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most
important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest quality
lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're funding the tip of
the spear in the infowarslife.com.
In Vitamin Mineral Fusion, take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups.
You want answers?
Well, so does he.
It's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm your host, Alex Jones.
I call it InfoWars Live, and I'll set a kid at Radio on the satellite receiver.
It's the Alex Jones Show.
It's just by the name of it for 23 years.
Again, I'm Alex Jones, your host.
Thank you so much for joining us, infowars.com, newswars.com, are the main sites.
We are witnessing the globalists openly trying to plunge our stock market, the Federal Reserve
raising rates, knowing it would do that, then hyping it, and then having their trading systems
preset to begin to lower the value.
Now, we have a lot of news coming in that we're going to be breaking down as it unfolds,
but here's a headline.
The Federal Reserve may secretly want to sink the record-breaking stock market, and that's
from the street, the street, one of the even big establishment publications, and that's
Peter Schiff saying that.
We'll play some of that video coming up at the start of the next hour, and Peter Schiff
is going to be joining us on air, and he was on with us just two weeks ago and was predicting
all of this, but he's saying it's bad if they try to crash it on their own, but it's healthy
because bubbles are bad, yeah, but then the Chinese, everybody else, have their bubbles.
So that is coming up.
At the bottom of the next hour, you definitely do not want to miss that.
I want to get to the latest that is unfolding with the whole situation, with Mueller and
the ridiculous Russian probe and all the rest of it, and the media trying to say, the
control corporate press trying to say, it's treason if you even expose the fact that they've
got fraudulent evidence that are engaged in fraud, and they're trying to feed the public
fruit of the poison tree, and then it's all based on lies.
So we're going to be going to all of that in just a moment, but I wanted to review the
crimes that have been committed on the face of it, prima facie, that means you catch somebody
with the dead body, and there's a witness that saw them stabbing them with the knife,
or you catch somebody in the act of shooting somebody in front of a sports stadium, it's
prima facie.
And you have Justice Department officials giving money directly to their spouses because there's
multiple ones that then quarterback creating the fake dossier and giving them a fancy French
name.
So everybody is wowed about it.
Congress, Nunes didn't call it the dossier or the Bible, he just called it a memo, a
FISA memo off what they did with the FISA court, the proof of the entire fraud and how
they lied to the FISA court, which is another serious crime.
So that's coming up in a moment, but briefly, we've got all these new initiatives that I've
been so busy, I haven't even promoted.
Things like Patriot Points at infowarstore.com.
When you go to infowarstore.com and buy products, you get 5% off all the other additional purchases
on your next purchase for every dollar you spend, which can be substantive.
You're buying high quality water filtration, air filtration, supplements monthly, that
just in your account, you've got the high tech best type of shopping cart out there,
it then builds up to very, very substantive amounts of money.
And so just remember though, you've got to click Patriot Points when you're there shopping
as you can anonymously shop or you can create your account with one click and you can again
get those Patriot Points, so be sure and infowarstore.com to check those out.
Also, you get additional 10% off on all orders when you sign a Ferato ship and then re-ship
every 15, every 30, every 60, every 90, or every 6 months, you can cancel for free with
one click.
So to explain, you can go in and sign a Ferato ship for say DNA Force Plus, which is Cell
Force but it's coming out in the term DNA Force Plus, or Brain Force, or Bodies, Ultimate
Turmeric Formula, or Pollen Block, or BioTruth Selenium, or Secret 12, or the Real Red Pill,
or Colloidal Silver, or Super Blue, fluoride-free, toothpaste that is 4 to 5 with high-quality
colloidal silver and iodine, people love it, so good for the gums, knockout, the great
sleep aid, vitamin mineral fusion, caveman, fluorolife, incredible probiotic, prostagard,
same price as other sawpomato products that are great, proven to help you prostate other
glands but with a bunch of other stuff that also turbocharges it for less money.
You get an additional 10% off at checkout and then you can cancel right after checkout
if you want.
It's just to habituate, and I do this too, because I have the warehouse a few miles away
and I go get whatever I want whenever I want, and I'll still run out of things like knockout
or I'll run out of things like Secret 12, I'll run out of stuff like X2, the high-quality
pure iodine, it's so good, and then I'll be forgetting to go get it.
So I just auto ship to my house, my wife asked me about a year ago, she said, because that's
when we got married, a little over a year ago, she said, honey, why are we getting
info wars stuff from Austin, why are you buying your own stuff?
And I said, well, I have to go sign out of inventory anyway, it's a big hassle, or somebody's
got to bring it to me over here at the other office, and I said, so what if I'm putting
money back in the company, it's here, isn't it?
She said, no, yeah, you're right, I said, you were complaining that I wasn't bringing
home enough knockout because you love it.
I said, eight bottles, sweetheart, by the way, about a year and a half later, about 14 months
later, we finally just killed that, and again, I didn't sign up for auto ship on that, I
just had a whole bunch said to me, but I need to do the auto ship.
In fact, I was just remembering, why am I ordering online?
I need to auto ship myself, see, so something in there is on auto ship, I think it's what
the kids take, secret 12, high-quality, vitamin B12.
The point is infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple A 253-3139, and for a limited time,
it is selling out in the next week or so.
Shell Force is stronger bio, PQQ, CoQ10, more of it, it's basically souped up DNA Force
at a lower price we were able to negotiate with a top organic producer, and Group said,
listen, we're already putting out DNA Force Plus that was supposedly, you're gonna have
even more in it for a lower price, but I can't even negotiate stuff like you did, we'll just,
I'll stop making it, you know, this new firm you've got, it's a great formula, that's
how classy Group is, so it is 53% off known as Shell Force, it's really gonna be called
DNA Force Plus when we remake it, it's being remade right now, we should get more, we think
in probably April, but I still want to discount at this great price for you, leading competitors
are up to $300 or more, medical doctors sell it, people think they're getting a good deal,
they go in, oh my gosh, it's CoQ10, it's bio, PQQ, the actual organically produced type,
you can't call it organic, but it's not synthetic, okay, so it's organically produced, it's
not synthetic, but you can't call it organic because it's produced in a laboratory using
organic means, using bacteria, so the point is, is that the Japanese developed it, it's
amazing, just the CoQ10 alone, Bio, PQQ, it's been all the rage for a decade for a reason,
this is the strongest, lowest price formula you're gonna find out there, they've got,
50, 60, 70 bucks for little bitty plastic bottles of just Bio, PQQ or CoQ10 that's synthetic
and the evidence shows doesn't absorb at all, if any, and it's the same price as this,
it's a big old horse pill in powdered form, incredibly absorbable with a bunch of other
key compounds in it that help supercharge the absorption, and it's got five stars, even
though this is a brand new product, Cell Force, gonna be relabeled, when the next deal comes
out as DNA Force Plus, people like that name, I did it, not to step on Grips toes, M4store.com,
M4slife.com, or Triple 8253-3139, pollen block, where they feed the Japanese quail, a special
secret diet that's been proven and documented, a massively reduced seasonal discomfort, stuff
from the pollen, all the stuff in the air, the dust, pollen block, people are loving it,
getting great reviews, this is a known product and procedure for decades, we just have a
high quality concentrated one at a very low price, M4store.com for your pollen block, and
that's how you fund the operation, please also fund our local affiliates by supporting
their sponsors or becoming a sponsor, our tithing to the local station, you know, ten
bucks a month, a hundred bucks a month, whatever you can, we're in a war, they're trying to
shut us down, despite that we're having some big victories, but it's quite a fight we're
in, okay, second hour with Mr. Chef coming up is gonna be extremely important, he's saying
exactly what I'm saying, this could be an inside operation, well it is clearly, you
can see it, and you can see the Democrats celebrating it in the news, that's really the big news
is their out there celebrating it, I also intend to open the phones up, but I'm gonna
get into the media finally picking up not just the illegality of McCabe getting a half
million dollars for his wife from Hillary, Cash, but Fusion GPS from or at the Justice
Department, stay with us, maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality,
we're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality,
our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency, super male vitality was
developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals,
in full wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products, our unique combination of
ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating
superior vitality in males, support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level,
boost your vitality and energize your life, take control of your body, grab a bottle of
super male vitality today at infowarslife.com, that's infowarslife.com.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, with
our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every
day, up, up, up, up, optimum levels, B vitamins we need every day, secret 12 combines 2 bioactive
forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption, up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption, being
deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargists, secret
12, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption, B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by
supporting your intercellular processes, B vitamins are also essential for the optimal
functioning of the brain and nervous system, up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels, secret
12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake, head to infowarslife.com and support
optimal brain and body function with secret 12, that's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
The feds are doing this on purpose by running up interest rates to weaken Donald Trump, whose
strongest calling card is the economy.
Remember Trump triumphed over Mueller and the nation last week with the release of that
memo.
Never mind what little Adam Schiff says, Adam Schiff is a fraud, a phony, an empty suit.
Robert Hall doesn't have a suit that would fit him.
They're trying to destroy Trump's strongest card, which is the economy.
Mueller has gone nowhere with his fake Russia investigation.
Trump's stirring so-to-speech last week was so great that even CBS admitted 75% of the
people who watched it, approved of it and loved it.
So what happened right afterwards?
The establishment, meaning the deep state, called it whatever you want, went into overdrive
to destroy Trump or try to destroy him where he is strongest because they couldn't get
him where they thought he was weakest.
And so they're taking the market down, they're trying to hurt you.
They are the enemies of the average American.
Make no mistake about it, they're going for you.
These people are so evil and so power drunk that they'd burn the nation to the ground
rather than let Donald Trump live another day in office.
Do you understand this?
The globalists are so power drunk they'd rather burn the nation to the ground than
let Donald Trump spend one more day in the Oval Office.
Total truth.
I don't hardly ever play clips twice, but I already played that last hour.
I had to play the game because it's so true.
I just got pollaxed during that last two-minute break in between the first and second hour.
By information, I just learned from one of our investigative journalists that I have
to go to a few clips at this point and I'm going to have to come back to break the news
that we're about to break here on air that is devastating, devastating to Hollywood.
Devastating, devastating.
And I mean, it's rare that news is show over the top that I even have trouble dealing with
it.
It's just these people.
It'll be breaking in the next 10 minutes here on air.
And then at infowars.com and newswars.com, and it makes me sick, but it also is very
positive at the same time to be exposing the Siebel.
Let's play a clip back from December 14th where I said, Fusen GPS could have been trying
to buy access to DOJ with payments to an official's wife.
Well, it's kind of the reverse.
That's what judicial watching.
That's what daily callers saying.
It's this all one group.
She went to work there and then the money was paid, yes, to her, to Orr.
That's how Orr made the payment to his wife, to himself.
And then it's all one big incestuous relationship.
So yes, that's true, but it goes both ways.
So here's a clip of where I broke that down and we'll go to break and come back and then
I'll try to compose myself, stay with us.
Then of course they had the hearing just on Wednesday, where he's in the meeting quarter
backing how to bring down Trump during the election and saying, don't panic, we're going
to defeat him.
And then they run the whole fake fusion GPS deal and they got the Justice Department paying
millions to the wife of the head of the Justice Department, Russia unit.
I mean, total collusion, this is as bad as Hitler sitting in judgment of the Nazis in
Nuremberg.
I mean, this is, whoa, this is so over the top, arrogant, belligerent, hubris filled,
Hutzpah filled, bravado filled, the arrogance, the recklessness, the fake confidence that
criminals and scum and betas engage him when, when, when betas finally get in a man's world
and get together as a group of betas and start engaging in criminal activity, they just do
things alphas would never do.
I just, I, I keep learning that it's betas who are the ones that get together and commit
the really big crimes and they're all a bunch of chicken neck, anti-American trash.
I mean, you read their emails, their texts.
I mean, these are people that have a big giant, you know what, for America and just hate
flyover country and hate bitter clingers and hate Christians and just, you know, I've
got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com, but instead of going
with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify
how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount
of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing.
Check it out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com, what it can do for your family and again,
I want to thank you all for your support, you are funding the Information War in 2018.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live.
This happens only every once in a while that a story so big hits my desk from our incredible
investigative journalist that it gives me a migraine headache and I'm not complaining.
I instantly, within about two minutes of looking at this information, got a splitting headache,
a vision blurring headache and I only have migraines maybe twice a year because it's
so horrible and because it just confirms everything, you think I'd be jumping up and
down happy.
No, I'm not happy and then I already had a stack of news on this subject to hit today
and I'm being persecuted by these people behind the scenes and I can't get into it yet and
I'm not complaining, it's just we're right about this and they're not going to give us
quarter for folks that aren't into old fashioned history quarter means you're getting a fight
with somebody, it's to the death, they're not going away, they're not stopping and they
really are as bad as we thought they were, in fact, they're worse so I'm not ready to
go to this at this point and we are going over it to remove some of the profanities
in it and then I'm going to air it the next segment.
So that's coming up in a minute, I taste blood in my mouth, you know what I'm talking
about, copper right now as a parent and I know what it is, it's my natural inclination
if I was in a village 10,000 years ago there were people like this, they wouldn't be doing
too well real fast and I'm not somebody that shoots my mouth off, everybody knows that,
we're changing the world and I don't even like talking like this, it's just at a certain
point, it never ends, you know I haven't gotten to one-tenth of bombshells yet today, these
are the type of bombshells that are on info wars.com, just sensational beyond knowing,
Adam Schiff the guy leading take America down operations up to his eyeballs with the Russians,
caught trying to cover up and obstruct criminal investigations of Hillary, caught trying to
block the criminal activity of fusion GPS, he's now come out and says Russians promote
the second amendment so Americans would kill each other, that's right, Adam Schiff the
second amendment is a Russian conspiracy, the stock market ups a Russian conspiracy,
taking care of the veterans a Russian conspiracy, having the biggest small business startups
in modern histories, a Russian conspiracy, having the lowest black and Hispanic unemployment
ever recorded is a conspiracy of the Russians, no you are the conspiracy of Hollywood and
the whole stinking thing, and we've got the reports coming up that the Federal Reserve
may secretly want to sink the record breaking stock market, oh that's the street, I said
that last night, now you got CNBC and everybody else saying we're going to play that video
when Schiff comes on with us at the bottom of the hour, and again I just keep showing
you how we say it first and that's why they fear us and why they hate us, because I'm
not a follower, I don't sit around and wait for somebody else to do it, now before we
go any further and I play some of these clips, I'm going to play these clips back to back
because I've got to go work on some things during the break and just get my head together
before I come back and cover this, this big breaking news is going to break in about eight
nine minutes at infowars.com and newswars.com and prisonplanet.com, but boy did Trump say
it right when he said Democrats are like death, all those that hate me love death, that's
their cult, that's their spirit, so Christ said they're like death, un-American and treasonous.
Like Savage said, total veritas, the insiders want to burn it all down if they can't control
it, and Trump's trying to give us the keys back, I respect you, I believe in you, you're
amazing, America's amazing, I love the energy of America, I'm in the cult of America, globalist
go he's mentally ill, he's crazy, what, betting on the best horse the world ever saw, no I
think he'd be crazy to join you death lovers, who love communist China, that's like a freak
azoid science fiction nightmare that killed 80 plus million of its own people and kills
hundreds of thousands a year conservatively right now and keeps people in cages DNA tested
to sell their organs that did nothing, that's lovers of death right there, so rolling over
to you is like death, so we're going to play Adam Schiff Russians promoting the second
amendment so Americans will kill each other and then I'm going to play the rest of the
clip I didn't get to all of it, flashback they're now saying go after or for giving
his wife millions of dollars from the justice department as a type of double-sided payoff
that you can only do if your husband and wife doing something like that, it's just to pay
off, it's a kickback, it's unbelievable, let's go ahead and play both of those clips
back to back that will come back with a bomb show, but we can see for example on Facebook
so graphically what I was mentioning earlier the multiple aims of the Russians no proof
no nothing you just lie you just say this, the content that was clearly anti-Hillary
and you had the content clearly pause sorry all anti-Hillary stuff was a Russian buy that's
all lies it's all it's been proven to be lies he just lies to people here go back to Jeff
Bezos's Washington Post let's go back to the Washington Post here, but even the bigger
quantity of content that was being pushed through social media was just content designed
to pit us against each other to exploit our divisions oh the race and all that stuff like
you do of course they as you have seen they parroted black lives matter to try to broaden
the racial divide you guys funded that fascinatingly they also trumpeted the second amendment apparently
the Russians are very big fans of our second amendment they don't particularly want a second
amendment of their own yes they do but they're really glad that we have one the Russians
would be thrilled if we were doing nothing but killing each other every day and sadly
we are here I am getting into December what's now breaking go ahead of course at the hearings
yesterday on Wednesday where he's in the meetings quarterbacking how to bring down Trump during
the election and saying don't panic we're going to defeat him and then they run the whole
fake fusion GPS deal and they got the Justice Department paying millions to the wife of
the head of the Justice Department Russia unit I mean total collusion this is as bad
as Hitler sitting in judgment of the Nazis in Nuremberg I mean this is whoa this is so
over the top arrogant belligerent hubris filled hutzpah filled bravada filled the arrogance
the the recklessness the fake confidence that criminals and scum and betas engage in when
a when when betas finally get in a man's world and get together as a group of betas
and start engaging in criminal activity they just do things alphas would never do I just
I I keep learning that it's betas who are the ones that get together and commit early
big crimes and they're all about the chicken neck anti-american trash I mean you read their
emails their text I mean these are people that have a big giant you know what for America
and just hate flyover country and hate bitter clingers and hate Christians and just hate
everything I mean this is a group of garbage but you've got to be garbage if people are
in your business which is our country robbing it they're gonna hate the people they're robbing
it's what criminals do they always demonize who they're robbing and they always think
they're invincible until they get caught robbing but it gets worse you've got the FBI giving
millions of dollars with McCabe directing it behind the scenes during the campaign against
Trump in emails and text messages saying don't worry we're gonna stop Trump and we're gonna
fund fusion GPS are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals are you happy doing
laundry with detergents are you happy paying high prices find your happiness with pure
soap these all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used
buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 months to plot or get items individually and still save big
you're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now earth friendly and
natural soaps your family deserves the best happiness is five star soap dot com why not
put your money up the drain for a change see them at five star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091
for a catalog Cal Bend soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good
old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils
see their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com that's F I V E star soap dot
com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog one out of four people listening to my voice
right now could die from heart disease this could be your last year and you don't even
know it because you don't know the early warning signs if you think you're safe because your
cholesterol levels are normal think again because studies show that seventy five percent of
heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol levels let me introduce you to Strauss heart
drops a world famous heart and brain formula made in Canada it's time tested and will give
you clinical results in ninety days or your money back learn more at science of heart
disease dot com they are shipping free this month hear that that's the sound of a house
being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place and what they don't steal will
be destroyed this year resolve not to be the next victim of a break in go to fake tv dot
com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching tv even
when your miles away security is a mindset and fake tv should be part of your security
solution be vigilant but not fearful fake tv dot com Mike in Arizona here on the air
worldwide go ahead oh Alex you can rent any day of the week thank you sir for doing what
you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow
patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time info words listener
I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like
to say thanks for the anthroplex thank you I use the bio true selenium the super blue
toothpaste for you folks who are big normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome
and thank you so much Alex for the info words life products they are quality I can't wait
to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely
we because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves we can take our country back Michael ZX is back and just like
we're game changing when it comes to politics when it comes to the economy we're game changing
on supplements I want to bring you products from the best research out there from the
best labs the best laboratories the best scientists that really change lives because I want you
to get a great effect I want you to have a great life be healthy I want you to see the
results so you reorder it and tell your friends and family about it you say a fungus is a
scourge molds a scourge and you can't battle it with this in your science rather is but
your gut the main area you can Michael ZX available exclusively been out for over six
months then for us live calm or by calling toll free triple a two five three three one
three nine ladies and gentlemen I only bring you products I use myself I only bring you
products that have been proven have diamond effects Michael ZX is back in stock right
now and for us live calm secure yours today you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones here back live with a piece of news that makes me particularly angry in fact
it it makes me taste copper in my mouth and that happens very very rarely unless I get
mad at a very deep fundamental level and then I ask myself why did this piece of news trigger
me so hard well you're about to learn for yourself because I have a stack of news today
that ties into this same subject and then when I listened to what this individual had
to say and read the transcript as well in the Kit Daniels article on info wars dot com
and news wars dot com it was so sickening to hear how he was talking and I'm talking
about Quentin Tarantino defended Roman Polanski's pedophilic rape of a drug 13 year old girl
and said sex with a 13 year old girl isn't rape and he was of course best buddies with
Weinstein and the two party together for years and he financed almost all of his race
baiting sex war films so there you go info wars dot com and it shocked even Howard Stern
in an interview from 2003 the full interview is posted on info wars dot com in the article
but remember we have Meryl Streep saying Roman Polanski shouldn't be in jail for raping a
13 year old or then he got in trouble for Europe for other stuff and they finally got
him before he was in jail years before that she was in the early 2000s giving standing
ovations when he was still winning best director from the academy and he was known for all
of this and there's the reports of all the rape by Weinstein and the underage girls
as well but don't worry as you're going to hear from Quentin Tarantino it's all okay
even though he introduced us to images of men raping men and Pulp Fitch had made it cute
and funny and what gimps were and sex slaves and boxes and all this you know fun stuff
if you get kidnapped and put in a box you'll think it's cool too where's the gimp I think
he's sleeping you'll just have to wake him up now won't you and so in real life that's
who Tarantino is it looks like is Zed and you know what happens to old Zed in Tarantino's
movie so Piper's come along so here we are ladies and gentlemen with him saying oh she
was 13 it was consensual oh because she was drugged up kind of like a 20 year old woman
you drug her up so here they are pushing this whole movement and he's got Uma Thurmer coming
out who knew about all this forever too they had her crashing in cars they spit on her
Tarantino's defending that now but now that she's not a big star anymore she wants to
get 10 more minutes of fame you should have talked about it back at the time lady that's
all I'm saying I'm not comparing you to monsters like Weinstein or Tarantino but man let me
tell you I know a lot of folks from Hollywood Tarantino's lived in Austin for 16 years he
doesn't like me he's come right over and told me my face arrogant old cuss I won't tell
the rest of story because it's too unbelievable but let's go ahead now ladies and gentlemen
it was yet the French connection when the director was there also the director of the
actress the same guy it was there back when Elmle Draft House was one movie theater downtown
it was there let's leave it right there let's go ahead and go to him on Howard Stern and
you're hearing about this here other folks obviously knew about this but no one's reported
it now we're reporting at info wars dot com here he is defending the rape anally of a
13-year-old girl here it is I mean dying to get a hold of you for this reason when you
Gary Garver our reporter out in Hollywood interview here's what you said I got to ask you about
this this this I don't understand your movie I understand this I don't you ready yeah okay
here we go hey Quentin how you doing man pretty good nice to meet you have you done to make
the world a better place I don't know well what do you think I've done cool movies out
there I'll stand with that takes us off yeah yeah we happy with Rowan Pulaski won the Oscar
yeah that was pretty cool actually yeah what's so great about rape is being the recipient
of Hollywood's highest honor I am I don't think I'm right that's the one that how could
you defend so I don't understand this how come Hollywood embraces this madman as director
who raped a 13-year-old he didn't rape the 13 years it was statutory rape yeah all right
well that's not quite the same thing back it up 10 seconds Robin and Stern are absolutely
right if you're 16 you got a 20-year-old boyfriend it's creepy but it's statutory if you're 18
and she's 15 no you're a 40-something-year-old guy with a drugged up 13-year-old having sex
with her till she bleeds all over the place and you grabbed her and you drugged her let's
go back let's go back to this this this creep this madman is director who raped a 13-year-old
he didn't rape the 13 years it was statutory rape yeah all right well that's not quite
the same thing it upset it's not statutory rape you know he had sex with a with a minor
all right that's not rape to me when you use the word rape all right you're talking about
violent throwing them down it's like one of the most violent crimes in the world you can't
throw you know throwing the word rape around is like throwing the word racist around okay
you know it just doesn't apply to everything that people use it for all right you know he
was he was guilty of having sex with a minor all right she didn't want to have no that
was not the case at all she wanted to have it well and dated trance riffs dated the guy
dated the guy and and and she was 13 and found out well you by the way we're talking about
America's morals we're not talking about in Europe and everything oh in Europe and where
else where pedophilia is kind of cool underground and you know they grab you get out of the backyard
it's okay as long as you put them on five hits of x I've got a 13-year-old daughter and
I got a ten-year-old daughter now and I got a nine-month-old daughter and I catch anybody
touching them you're dead I don't care what your morals are Tarantino you're nothing but
a thug wimp you're gonna get it you got that you're a lot of trouble politically so the
rest of the audio and everything's up there he goes on to defend it it's sick but let's
go out to break with a standing ovation for Roman Polanski that year and then a couple
years later he got arrested for similar stuff in Europe and it's still in jail now and they're
all sad about it these are the same people she says in Kramer versus Kramer famous actor
slapped her too hard she'd agreed it was part of the acting and she says she's traumatized
to cover up for what she is an enabler just like Oprah Winfrey let's go to the tape goes
to Roman Polanski and all of them stand up Harrison Ford looks like a total nerd quit
what's your fake nobodies oh there you got all the rest of the people yeah grab little
girls we drug them up and we rape them the Academy congratulates Roman Polanski in Europe
or in Harvey Weinstein when he's on the airplane with the Lolita Express with Mr. Epstein and
Bill Clinton knowing the known areas where they got 10 year old girls that were kidnapped
and you know sometimes they end up in the ocean hey it's consensual it's not rape when
you kidnap kids and take them to an island to be slaged or you take them to some chic
serum all right candy little girls up and rape them for years so you blow their heads
off it's no big deal we'll be right back stay with us here's a special message for those
of you who owe the IRS at least 10,000 or more in back taxes the IRS has special programs
in place that could eliminate or reduce your tax debt by thousands of dollars call the
federal tax management helpline that has been set up for you 800-503-8625 stop the wage garnishments
levies and tax leans now once you've qualified and enrolled the IRS will stop all the collection
activities against you these unique programs have been allocated to help the economy and
significantly reduce or eliminate your tax burden the IRS is currently accepting reduced
settlements and other favorable programs you may qualify for substantial savings so get
the help you need if you owe more than 10,000 in taxes call for free information and to
see if you qualify take down the number now for the federal tax management hotline 800-503-8625
800-503-8625 not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to
do it why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty
much scares me the most I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and
water and beverages in my system but right now we're dealing with massive parasites
which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now
with all the refugees spreading disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere
these are all parasites tell us about all the stuff I said there's so many things that
are in it you have the name in there you have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year all right well I'm glad we've
got some back in because I'm going back on it today it just came back in yesterday living
defense infowarslife.com and folks you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body
period and you support the broadcast infowarslife.com thank you doctor group from the global healing
center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product please listen carefully
because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you
get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto
ship before checkout we give you 10% off on your order at info or short.com number two
you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because
we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free shipping
on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so
easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month just go to info or store.com
select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want
us to send you another order as you know I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto
ship feature in infowarslife.com this is a sure win 10% off on auto ship win win win
at infowarslife.com free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never
out of stock when you sign up for auto ship info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough
in modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and
respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen block. In the 1960s researchers
in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced
less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus
production they began studying the effects in public trials in their public trials now
we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet just chew two
tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working
in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally
with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free
triple eight two five three three one three nine you're listening to the alex jones show
resistance to tyrants is obedience to god it's alex jones well he was on with us january
19th that's about two weeks ago and i wasn't surprised this morning he doesn't easy contact
us to come on we contact him to come on but a little bit of a triumphant return as he
was predicting anytime the markets would have multi thousand point corrections we ought to
dig that video up i forgot to tell the crew he was on the street last night and other
tv channels breaking it down but he did add the point that i i agree with i mean it is
the rake heights that are doing this and the federal reserve may secretly want to sink
the record breaking stock market well that's definitely what dr. michael sabbage thinks
that's what i said in july what i said in december we've already played those clips
here so all i'm saying is can't america have its bubble too but as ship has said it'll
just implode at one point or another question is are we here yet and why would they want
to precipitate that we're going to him of euro pacific capital here in just a moment
but briefly we're about to end a bunch of big specials at infowarstore.com we have the very
best water filtration the very best air filtration we have a great trump pinch 2020 limited edition
new shirt the others sold out only for one month and again a clear vision for the future
it is a collector's shirt one run we also have pollen block it's totally natural that
has the japanese quail fed a special diets proprietary and secret and then they don't
know why but it absolutely really helps with the seasonal distress the pollen the things
that obviously upset so many people out there when i forget to take it i really really notice
here in austin texas known as the capital of allergies and i wanted to come out with
something that even cost less but had more bio pqq and coq 10 and we made some bigger
connections and some of the prices fell in the organically produced formulas and you
can't call it organic it's organically produced by bacteria it's not the synthetic type but
the point is is that it is the purest best form out there leading competitors 300 200
bucks you name it it's usually a great deal at 100 it's called dna force well we now named
it cell force to get around some contracts so that we could go even lower on the price
but then when i negotiated with the folks they said go ahead and use dna forces that's
your branded name just call it plus so it's going to be called dna force plus as soon
as this sells out this is an introductory offer on dna force plus known as shell force
concentrated organically produced coq 10 bio pqq and more this is the ultimate formula
ladies and gentlemen and it is 50 plus percent off at info or store dot com technically 53
percent off the already lowered price on the retail go read the reviews for it yourself
okay and again your purchases of the products make everything we do here possible we've
got the real red pill i should add that is a multi vitamin multi mineral with another
key compound that is seen by the fda is a steroid but a natural one that is the precursor
to all steroids that if you don't have it you can't produce them so it's seen as healthy
and seen as grass by the fda which means safe and so it's in there it's the real red
pill takes about a week to kick in and let me tell you it's it's it's amazing so check
that out info or store dot com okay going back now to the man who back on january 19th
of this year predicted here on this broadcast that it was imminent a major stock market
correction of multi thousand points no need to go play the clip many of you heard it for
the time because we'll just go right to him i may get to it after he leaves us and just
to tag it on so we post this later people can see that but the federal reserve may secretly
want to sink the record breaking stock market that is a quote here and that's out of the
street dot com he was on msnbc cnbc talking about it i don't know the fed has much love
for trump he said adding that the fed had the markets back during the obama administration
maybe the fed would be happy to see the bear market that could be blamed on trump shiv
thinks the markets can easily correct 20 percent that's what he said two weeks ago show joining
us right now is the man that predicted so why is this happening you know more since
last night obviously what's really going on well as i've been saying and excuse my voice
about a cat got a cold the other day but by interest rates have been rising right the
yield on the long bond has been i gotta take a drink it's okay well you look great even
if your voice is gone we don't know how it is this time of year i'll go down i just
did an interview i don't have my voice i understand petership of euro pack dot com
joins us but um so interest rates have been rising the markets have been ignoring this
and i said look eventually the markets can't ignore it why are rates going up it's not
the fed hiking rates it's bond prices falling why is that happening it's happening because
the budget deficits and the trade deficits are skyrocketing we got a trade deficit today
december deficit biggest in nine years if you take out oil the biggest trade deficit
we've ever had in one month as a country i mean trade deficits are exploding and when
the tax cuts were passed that shined a light on the massive deficits that are going to
be needed to finance each these tax cuts plus trump is talking about infrastructure spending
that money has to be borrowed they have a budget deal now they're doing they're going to include
pork barrel spending for the democrats and the republicans they're throwing all physical
discipline out the window we are about to flood the world with treasury bonds who is
going to buy these bonds the fed is saying they're not going to buy any the fed is saying
they're actually going to sell bonds that they're going to let their balance sheet shrink
the last time we had a trillion dollar a year budget deficit the fed was doing 85 billion
of qe a month now they're saying we're going to do the opposite of that so bonds are falling
and that's going to bring down the the stock market it's going to bring down the economy
because the only thing that's been propping us up has been very cheap money very low interest
rates you take that away and everything comes toppling down you know the danger for trump
is it happens while he's on the job peter chef it looks like what you're saying here
with a great track record of predicting things accurately and raising billions for your investors
that there's two things trump is massively pumping money into the world economy and attempt
to turn things back on but at the same so that you can say is a problem historically
but then also the federal reserve is now changing policies where they put up with this under
obama but they've signaled oh we're not going to buy any of our treasuries like we did with
obama and we're going to raise interest rates leaving trump out in the cold a true double
cross well it's not that this will be positive what the federal reserve did under obama was
not good for the country we would have been much better off had we done no no i understand
that but they're changing their policy for trump as you said well let me ask it this
way i mean repeating and expanding on what you said last night on the street and what
you said on cnbc about the federal reserve having an offer the president please give
us your take on that well when i made those comments and they were a while back actually
i said that i believed that had hillary clinton won well jada yellen was fed chairman i don't
believe we would have got all those rate hikes i think the fed would have been much more cautious
about raising rates when if hillary had won but since trump had won i think they went
forward with those rate hikes even though the economic data didn't support it in fact despite
what everybody's talking about if you look at the data right gdp growth last year was
not strong in fact it's probably going to come out weaker than the average that we had
in obama's second term job growth last in the last year is the slowest it's been in
since 2010 we don't really have a strong economy but we have a lot of debt and and and so now
that pal is coming in i mean pal pal has been appointed by trump we'll see if he is going
to give in to some political pressure which ultimately is not good for the country to just
print money to try to paper this over is not a good thing but i think if the fed has to
rescue the markets and rescue the economy with another round of quantitative easing and
obviously too it's going to embarrass trump if the fed has to reverse course because the
economy is a mess and the stock market is tanking now that he's already cranked claim
credit for it but if the fed does that again it is not going to end well i think it's going
to cause a dollar crisis i think it's going to cause a sovereign debt crisis i don't think
the fed can do for trump what it did for obama i think they're out of bullets i think the
next time they do qe it's going to be a fatal overdose okay stay there please let's walk
through this on the other side of the head of europe pacific capital dot com on the other
side and look at the bad side of all this if if he's corrected so far two weeks ago
he did call it uh... peter shiff is here with us again i'm alex jones spread the live
links relation local radio spread those links local tv tell folks tune in and we will drill
down into this the next segment or two we got them a little bit like to say a few more
segments introducing floor life the new probiotic line developed exclusively by info wars life
after years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics are made the same floor
life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases
directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical because stomach acid kills
most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic then you're cheating your
gut health and your wallet floor life supports your body's core where you need it most including
digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you know that over 80 percent
of your immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut probiotic levels
is so important for overall health floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday
maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program
head to info wars life dot com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today
that's info wars life dot com introducing cell force by info wars life cell force focuses
on mitochondria efficiency and protection mitochondria produce over 95 percent of your
energy they are your body's cellular engines cell force helps promote your cellular energy
production by supporting mitochondria much like a cellular engine overhaul because when
your mitochondria don't run at 100 percent efficiency then they start producing reactive
oxygen species top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage resulting
from these reactive oxygen species the antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful
available on the market the stronger the antioxidant the better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and other free radicals boost protect and adapt with cell force from
info wars life head to info wars life dot com or call one eight eight eight two five
three thirty one thirty nine crooked Hillary is at it again gaslighting the population
she says Trump is using the FISA memo as a scapegoat for the Russia probe speaking to
students at Georgetown University Clinton said her loss is attributed to misogyny and
sexism but another contributing factor was the outgrowth of all the anxiety and insecurity
playing on some people and leading them on a hunt for scapegoats but thanks to those damning
text messages between two anti-trump FBI investigators we know the Russia investigation was meant
to be Clinton's scapegoat for losing the 2016 election Peter struck in his mistress Lisa
Page outlined an insurance policy to derail Trump should he win the election FBI officials
like struck and former deputy director Andrew McCabe were quarterbacking the investigation
into Clinton's illegal server the FISA memo itself details evidence of the Clinton campaign
colluding with the FBI DOJ and the State Department leon macadoo info wars dot com over a year
of this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year any time of the year
other formulas that aren't even as good are $70 $80 it's a great deal at $39 immune wall
more immune wall info wars store dot com info wars live dot com or triple 82533139 you're
listening to the alex jones show waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you
live you know here's my thinking i know they propped up the stock market and gave the
elites all this free interest money and did all this for eight years they plunged the
market you know right whenever the election was happening to get obama in 2008 ship and
predicted all that and then i'm just wanting america to have a chance i know china's got
big bubbles europe has bubbles and i get what ships fundamentally saying is accurate all
i'm saying is what is the alternative well we're going to talk about that some of them
in a moment and and and he's right he said this back in september but they were rearing
it last night drudge had it up so i was taking it as if he said about last night he was predicting
it back on september 19th so let's go ahead and play a clip from that interview that's
up on info wars dot com the full nine minute interview here's about a minute and a half
and then we'll actually go to mr. shift to break down what happened yesterday what's
happening now what he sees about to happen here it is the fed wouldn't let the market
go down when obama was president they certainly didn't want it to go down before the election
because they wanted to put hillary clinton into the oval office after obama so they had
the markets back there was this put but what if the put expired with donald trump i don't
know if the fed has much love for trump and now the trump has put his brand on the stock
market and this economy maybe the fed is happy to allow a bear market well that can be blamed
on trump you're calling the fed political which is certainly a valid argument a lot
of people are saying that but the fed also had a recession in 2009 to deal with so they
needed those stimulative measures then to deal with that well i have no doubt that they
will come back with the same stimulus once this recession is fully underway and blamed
on on president trump even though it's not his fault it's simply the mess that he inherited
from obama but the fed did not have to do the type of economic stimulus that it did
in 2009 2010 that's why the economy never healed that's why we're in worse trouble today
than we were back then and remember the federal reserve created the housing bubble they're
the reason we had a financial crisis it was their economic policy that began early in
the bush era you know when we burst the dot all right now let's go to mr. schiff himself
of that again is from a late last year but it sounds like you've showered some to trump
you're saying he's kind of jumped on the bandwagon here and then he's basically repeating what
happened before but the federal reserve it looks like it's ready to abandon him unlike
obama well you know first of all just recently i was talking about us an 87 style stock market
crash i my own podcast on friday i said well black money monday come early this year because
i was comparing this year to 1987 because what happened in 87 is we had soaring trade
deficit and budget deficits that were pushing down the dollar and up interest rates and
that led to the stock market crash so more recently i've been i've been worried about
a big drop in you called it two weeks ago here to interrupt you you said a black monday
two weeks ago but in answer to your question i mean what can trump do rather than blow
a bigger bubble we can have real economic growth he can make america great again we can have
real prosperity that is possible but first we have to clean up the mess the problem is
trump is trying to make the mess look like legitimate a recovery when he was a candidate
he was dead on accurate when he said the unemployment numbers were a myth they were a hoax well
now he's perpetrating the same hoax he was dead on accurate when he said the stock market
was a bubble it's still a bubble it's a bigger bubble so why can't trump the president govern
like trump the candidate i want america to be great but in order to do that we can't
blow another phony economy with a bubble we need real economic growth and so we need
smaller government yes i want tax cuts but that means we need a smaller government that
means we gotta cut spending we gotta eliminate departments we gotta make government smaller
trump is making government bigger and he's cutting taxes and trying to claim credit
you don't get credit for running bigger deficits to pay for bigger governments if you want prosperity
we need to shrink government we need to unleash the free market we need to unleash capitalism
we're not doing that we're doing the same smoke and mirror nonsense what trump doesn't
realize is it isn't gonna work now he's not gonna get out of dodge he's gonna be a one
term or with this and he's gonna he's gonna pave a way for a socialist in 2021 with both
houses of congress they're gonna blame all of this on capitalism on the tax cuts on deregulation
this is not what's causing it but it's gonna be what's gonna get the blame so trump should
be doing the real things that need to be done if he's gonna get blamed for something let's
get blamed for doing the right thing because doing the right thing means some short term
pain but you know what we gotta suck it up you know no pain no gain there's a lot to
be gained if we take constructive pain if we let this phony economy you know implode
so we can replace it with something lasting and something real and i have confidence in
the free market system and americans that the government got out of the way we could rebuild
this country and that's what people elected trump to do not to blow an even bigger bubble
but if if the economy would have imploded during a correction and then obviously come
back stronger after as historically it does they would have been able to impeach him by
now when he's trying to bring the republic back kill political correctness culturally
he's doing a lot of things that are more important to me than even money but i understand what
you're saying getting just in the technicals then what do you expect to happen now you've
been pretty accurate well look you know i think the stock market is going to be trending
lower because i think bond prices are going to keep falling and eventually bond prices
are going to crash and interest rates are going to skyrocket the only thing that will
prevent bond prices from crashing is if the stock market crashes first and the fed comes
to the rescue of the market by admitting that it's not going to keep raising rates that
it's not going to shrink its balance sheet that that it's going to launch qe for i think
the fed has to sacrifice the dollar to prop everything up and they may do that there's
going to be a lot of political pressure on the fed to do just that but that is a mistake
because that is going to kill the dollar that is going to create a crisis and ultimately
a currency crisis and what that implies for the u.s economy the average american is going
to be much more disruptive than a repeat financial crisis but i think all that can happen before
trump finishes this term so either way it's going to be a disaster and it's not going
to be a record that he can run on four more years the democrats are going to exploit this
to blame it on the republicans to blame it on trump to say you see what happens when
you cut taxes you see what happens when you cut regulations even though we haven't really
cut that many and even though the tax cuts don't count because we didn't cut government
spending we just substituted debt for taxation which is a bad trade putting government on
a credit card is a more expensive way to pay for it but all this is going to bite us just
like obama obama became president because everybody blamed the financial crisis on bush
and on capitalism and on deregulation that's not why but bush stood idly by while this
bubble inflated around him and you had all these republican talking heads who were cheerleading
this phony economy and i was on cnbc and i was unseen in fox saying you guys are making
a mistake by singing the praise of this bubble because when it blows up it's going to come
back to bite us that's exactly what i'm going to ask you this question they don't let me
on cnbc anymore so i can't point this out i'm not disagreeing with you on the fundamentals
here all i'm saying is look at the dollar at least last time i checked an hour ago was
up on all this certainty aren't we kind of the best house in a bad neighborhood the dollar
is barely up you know when the when the market was crashing back in 2008 the dollar was soaring
the dollar index is still below 90 the dollar has barely recovered anything so there isn't
a flight to the dollar all that's happened over the last couple of days is the dollar
stopped falling but you know the dollar should be falling if people really understand what's
going on but they don't that the markets will keep falling until the fed cries uncle until
the fed you know takes away the rate hikes and of course that's what's been propping
the dollar up and the amazing thing is the dollar has been falling even though everybody
expects rate hikes even though everybody thinks the economy is good even though everybody
thinks the fed is going to shrink the money supply the dollar has still been sinking the
dollar has everything going for let's talk let's talk timetables and when you sit around
the table with your wife and children or your business partners what do you really expect
to happen in the economy look you know i expect the economy to relapse back into recession
i believe we would have already been in a recession if you look at how gdp slowed rapidly
obama's last year of growth was very low i think in hillary one we would have been in
a recession in the first year now the fed might not have raised rates as many times
as they did but i think we would have we're going there anyway but because trump won and
the prospect of it being a game changer it created a lot of excitement and i think there
was some spending that took place or maybe some investment that might not otherwise
have taken place and so i think we bought some time i think the onset i agree with you
so let me ask this is about a break let me ask you this petership of euro pack dot com
before we go to break come back in two minutes to give us the answer from your perspective
i agree with all that why then is the federal reserve withdrawing its support raising interest
rates why is the media badmouthing the economy in many cases why are they having different
policies now than they did with obama just like you talked about september that's coming
true but now you're not wanting to defend the president as much that's fine i want to
find out why on the other side news wars dot com prison planet dot com spread those links
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you
need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep
support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars
life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com maximize your potential
and take your body back with super male vitality we're breaking the conditioning and fighting
back against the globalist war on male vitality our ultimate non-gmo formula is sourced from
powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world and then concentrated
for maximum potency super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural
processes instead of using synthetic chemicals info wars life wants to bring you the highest
quality products our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body
in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males support your body
in mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality and energize your life
take control of your body grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info wars life
dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show from the
front lines of the information war it's alex jones alright final segment with peter ship
of Europe Pacific capital euro pack dot com then i'm gonna open the phones up into all
the other big breaking news in the next segment but i like the fact that trumps anti-political
correctness says he's free market doing a lot of good things but it's true that this
economy is a giant bubble and now again as i said before the break we see the federal
reserve with the activities it's doing not supporting president trump like it did obama
so we're just asking mr shift why he thinks that's happening and then what that will precipitate
well you know the fed i said they were dragging their feet in raising rates while obama was
president they talked about raising rates but at the end of the day they barely moved
them up now the the pace of hikes has increased since trump was elected but part of the reason
for that i mean the media is not talking down the economy if anything they're they're over
hyping the guy everybody's talking about how strong the economy is how everything is great
everybody is taking credit for this great economy the fed wants to take credit for it
trump wants to take credit for it so if everybody's talking about how great the economy is the
fed doesn't have any excuse if it doesn't raise rates how can the fed not raise rates
when they're so low if the economy is really this great so in order to keep up the pretense
that the economy is as strong as everybody thinks the fed is in this box where it has
to raise rates but you know they can't tell the truth that well it's really a bubble and
if we raise rates we're going to prick it so they're kind of in this bind and they and
they're still you know calligraphy that they're going to raise rates three or four times this
year and and that is the problem you know and and the market though is moving rates
up even higher because the deficit is exploding you see one of the things that happened under
Obama is he inherited a massive deficit from from Bush to deficit skyrocketed in 2008 2009
and so you know after a couple years the deficits were slowly falling while Obama was present
now they were falling from a very high level but at least they were going down all of a
sudden deficits are skyrocketing and they're about to explode out of control yet we have
no way to finance them that is the problem and so interest rates have no place to go
up but way up not just a little up but but much much higher and how can we afford to
service the debt where is the government going to get the money to pay the if you're right
get out of this is there a way to get out of this because culturally what he's doing
is great no well look the sooner he tells the truth the better but of course you know
it's going to be hard now given all the credit he's claimed for what's happened since he
was elected for him to now come clean and say the economy is no good you know the stock
markets a bubble you know he is so he I think he got a lot of bad advice and now unfortunately
he's he is the fall guy there's no way to stop this and if the Fed under Powell tries
to buy Trump some time I don't think he's going to buy enough I think the problem is
so big that the minute the Fed has to try to solve it it's going to unleash a much
bigger one but in fairness you did call this two weeks ago you said it was imminent but
you've been you've been thinking this is going to implode before though well I didn't think
the stock market would because I thought the Fed would would cave I have expected the Fed
to basically backtrack I thought the Fed was was you know was more bluffing and you know
they haven't shrunk the balance sheet so I'm right there they've been talking about it
it hasn't actually happened but they've have raised interest rates several times they're
still posturing as if they're going to keep doing it and when I saw the big increase in
long-term interest rates based on is a skyrocketing budget deficit and a skyrocketing trade deficit
I was like okay this is it the markets got a tank how could the market go up for so many
days and ignore all this bad news I mean when you see these big increases in interest rates
when you see these deficits you know that this is a problem and then go down the next
month or so or just keep kind of going down well right now I think we've done a lot of
technical damage I don't think this market is going to roar back and make new highs unless
the Fed engineers it but if the Fed is going to continue to posture as if rates are going
up and they're going to shrink their balance sheet then they're going to sell the stock
market and more importantly they're going to sell the pot I know you got to go we're back
in 60 seconds let me ask you one question how low do you think it will go then and then
how do we come back out of that in what you're saying is true back in 60 Frank in North Carolina
thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah I just have to say something man it seems like
every time I turn on your broadcast your bracket it just gets old man I'm gonna shut you down
right now take we're taking calls about your nomination do you understand they're having
congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand I'm ringing the alarm if
that was happening to anybody else I'd be freaked out I mean what's it gonna take us
being shut down is that what you want Frank you know what Alex put him on pause again
hey Frank do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under
attack we need your help as much begging as I do we can barely pay the bills and grow
in the face of this I'm not gonna just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards
you understand I need your help Frank I need your help Frank go to infowarstore.com right
now and help fund the info do you understand I need your help Frank free press need your
help Frank waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones the head of Euro Pacific capital
EuroPak.com Peter Schiff is our guest he was on with us on the 19th few weeks ago and said
it's imminent we could have you know one of these collapses on Monday coming up the next
few weeks of course he said that a few weeks ago on his own show so I get he's a smart
guy been interviewing him probably I don't know at least 15 years or so and he's a respected
guy but he said a lot of things they didn't want to hear so he's kind of been banned
off MSNBC and CNBC and you know other channels I guess he's on Fox Business some but he's
here and here's where I stand and then I want to be able to finish up and get out here
because I know he's busy Trump culturally going after political correctness trying to
secure our border trying to not attack our families take care of our veterans the exuberance
the positivity I like that I get there's issues damn to be brings the economy down to reset
it damned if he doesn't it's a bubble they blame it on him so it's kind of like I'm
a backseat driver we all are other than our own positivity our own exuberance but I'm
not in a cult at the same time I just think what would it be like if Hillary was in they
were coming after the free press they already are they I mean we've been a much worse world
so I just don't want to be the eternal pessimist here but I've been sitting there every day
just waiting to wake up and see the stock market drop a couple thousand points and then
precipitated downward spiral so we just joined us during the last segment he was getting
into is the Fed really going to raise rates then it was going to start going down if they
don't how long can that go so just finishing up then on what you expect depending on what
the Fed does this to look like and some of the time frames there it's not just the Fed
raising short term rates it is the market raising long term rates the yield on a ten
year treasury is about three percent right just under three percent historically the
yield averages the nominal GDP which is you know the real GDP plus the inflation rate
so if you look at where GDP is now in inflation the yield should be seven percent why is it
three percent we can't afford seven percent if everything is so great why are interest
rates still so low I mean none of it makes sense I mean they're old they're low but they
can't stay here so the market is now getting a sense of this massive supply of treasury
bonds that is going to be flooding the market why would you want to own these bonds China
doesn't want to own them Japan doesn't want to own them Americans don't have any money
to buy them we have the lowest savings rate in over ten years nobody wants these treasuries
and not only does the treasury have to sell them the Fed says they're going to sell theirs
so there are no real buyers yields have to go up and so everything has to come crashing
down these social issues need to take a backseat if the economy crashes if the market crashes
if we have a worse economy than the one that Bush left Obama then none of the other stuff
matters because we're simply paving the way for somebody worse than Hillary Clinton not
worse than that you know I mean Bernie Sanders I think is an honest man he's just completely
wrong he's he just he's just a naive socialist who doesn't know anything Hillary was just
about making money for herself but I don't want socialists taken over Washington I don't
want a wave of discontent right so that Sanders or somebody like him can surf into the White
House I don't want to see all these Republicans lose first in 2018 and then in 2020 because
if you're worried about these other issues what do you think is going to happen when
the Democrats have a cow everything and not just regular Democrats people way to the left
of any any Democrat who's ever been in office because this is going to put such a black
eye on capitalism on cutting they're going to say we need more government we need more
regulation look at how badly business screwed up the economy we cut taxes on business and
look at the mess right oh Obama Obama handed a perfect economy let me bring that up Trump
is trying to unify the country the left is trying to cause a civil war it's in the wiki
leagues so do they get any blame if they're able to take all this I don't look I think
they're Trump's going to get blame because he's already claimed credit for how great
everything is he said because of media commies booming but don't you get he's trying to cheer
lead to prop it up and get actual jobs back you know that but that's not that's not going
to get actual jobs back and it's not getting actual jobs back what we need for actual jobs
is we need more savings we need more capital investment we need to grow worker productivity
none of this is happening because we've got a gigantic government in the way and we've
got too much debt so what does your gut tell you do you think the Fed backs off and then
bats crump or do you think that they go ahead and start raising interest rates look I think
that eventually if the economic data gives them cover if the market goes down enough
they will be political for Trump the way they were political for Clinton I mean now that
Powell is there Powell is a Republican Powell is not Janet Yellen I didn't think Janet Yellen
wanted to help Trump and but maybe Powell will I mean that might be why Trump appointed
him but I don't think it's going to help I think it's going to be too little too late
I think the economy is too bad the bubble is too big there's too much air that another
round of quantitative easing cutting interest rates from one and a half percent to zero
is not going to do it there are no more bubbles to inflate we have the biggest bubble now
we have the mother of all bubbles and the air is going to come out of it and I don't
think Trump can get out of dodge in time and this is the danger this is the political
danger of where we are and why I really wish that he had come in more forthright about
the problems not that he caused them but that he's going to clean up the mess now people
are going to claim that it's Trump's mess that needs to be clean but see his great strength
is the optimism you can also call it his Achilles heel will be watching it together again it's
false optimism I don't want to be optimistic that you know the ISIS sound and then I go
on and I fall through right you need to only be optimistic when it's warranted this false
optimism you know you you promise a lot and you deliver very little you have so many people
that expect so much and they're going to be so disappointed this is not going to go over
well and so a better approach would it would have been you know a more honest explanation
of the problem and even if that meant one term it would have been one term that was
worth it it would have been one term we could do something good as opposed to just be a
stepping stone right to something much worse well Peter ship your smart guy would have
been a good one thank you so much for the time I don't happen to my backdrop hey I like
it I kind of like you know we've had our TV we've had our TV show before and it looks
and it's a sharp it looks even cooler when it's black back there hey thanks for joining
us yeah alright there he goes everything is perspective and I agree with the fundamentals
of what Peter shifts just said so we have him on he's proven very accurate over the
years sometimes predicting things before they happen but then they end up happening you
look at nationalism whether it's Brexit or whether it's what's happening in South America
or what's happening all over Europe or what's happening here this is about nationalism and
about taking our country's back and about taking our sovereignty back and about taking
our culture back and taking us out of the TPP look at the psychology of that photo of
two old folks by themselves in a big stadium of your radio listener it's an article trying
to make it look like oh why is nationalism so popular but then the message is it's old
it's over it's gone and nobody is in the bleachers with you sometimes a picture is worth a thousand
words a thousand words of deception that was an old couple that showed up hours before
Trump showed up to be at the rally and they got in first and the photographer was there
waiting for it but again another deception so there are a lot of things worth more than
money and I'll say this we're sitting on top of time bomb like I said yesterday you're
in the show before the plunging was started but it's our time bomb and we're taking control
of the system away they've had the bubble in China five depending on the year ten times
bigger than ours it's totally state run and pumped up and quite frankly if they deflate
it now the country will descend into civil war and mass death they already have thousands
of riots a week in China like I said dead bodies riding on the side of the road it's
easy for it to leverage its power up because it gives nothing to its people they have no
standard of living they produce a ton and then get nothing and I've got a stack of articles
about you know Americans have to learn to have less and all the rest of it well only
if the establishment really proves that and then they themselves give up something but
instead they just get richer and richer and more and more powerful it's an argument for
feudalism is always oh we're saving Mother Earth going back to Plato two thousand three
hundred and sixty two years ago you know writing Plato's Republican memory serves so again culturally
Trump's delivering spiritually he's delivering energy wise he's delivering is he stuck in
a rock in a hard place absolutely but can that incredible optimism blast our way out
absolutely and are they plunged in the market right now controlled to send him a message
absolutely are we in a war absolutely are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals
are you happy doing laundry with detergents are you happy paying high prices find your
happiness with pure soap these all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best
you've ever used buy in bulk get a twelve thirty six or forty eight months to plot or
get items individually and still save big you're getting soap products twice as good
as what you're using now earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best
happiness is five star soap dot com why not put your money up the drain for a change see
them at five star soap dot com or call one eight hundred three four zero seven zero nine
one for a catalog Cal Bend soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you
good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and
coconut oils see their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com that's F I V E star
soap dot com or call one eight hundred three four zero seven zero nine one for a catalog
heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes
and drops or circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you
that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands
of people's lives across America my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally
improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone
how much healthier I feel I recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over
40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to
keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two month supply today by calling eight
six six two nine five five three zero five that's eight six six two nine five five three
zero five or order online HB extract dot com heart and body extract eight six six two
nine five five three zero five or HB extract dot com Matt and Ohio you're on the air another
Matt go ahead yeah hey listen I just wanted to say real quick I'm a long time listener
of in force and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering it
are absolutely fantastic and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the
info or it might seem like a simple thing but they particularly these slogan t-shirts
that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing thank you my favorite new one is the
don't tread on me but said it says won't tread on me and it's a big day glow snake Gadsden
snake and then it's got the American flag info wars dot com on the right arm I mean
that's a great way just to meet white minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech and the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt trigger warning t-shirt which is the
symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then info wars dot com on the back that is
the new shirt of the month available exclusively in info wars store dot com support good oral
health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a
revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful
clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor
pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients
used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride our super blue line
is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that
have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash
and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients xylitol nano
silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products refresh
your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info wars store dot com that's info
wars store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
all right, I was thinking during the break and I'm going to lay it out right
now that this is one of the most important things I've probably ever said in my long
history of being on air and it's this there are different types of wealth there is physical
monetary wealth there is genetic wealth health there is creativity there are so many different
types of wealth time itself is wealth and the media sets everything up that the stock
market is the measure of everything or how big a piece of property you have is the measure
of who you are or how big your red carpet is or do you have the biggest house on the
hill the best neighborhood in the best elite area and then once they get you that artificial
system they can get you to sell out your principles and your very humanity for these symbols of
power that aren't real wealth and I say that because I like seeing our stock market up
I like seeing record low jobless claims I like seeing record new small company startups
I like seeing optimism when the globalists have been trying to demoralize the average
person demoralize small companies demoralize farmers demoralize ranchers demoralize small
independent groups of people the world has been in hundreds of years of vertical integration
we were in total vertical integration 550 years ago before a few hundred years of Renaissance
began an explosion of freedom but still limited the robber barons the last 200 years struck
back they lost some places like 1776 but we just became what we were fighting within
a hundred years look at the jungle look at look at the tomes that were written at that
time of what was happening so we positively point out that exuberance bringing jobs back
bringing factories back bringing back pro-human economies is a good thing but then the media
says you didn't really cause that prosperity or that prosperity isn't really real they
talk on both sides of their mouth Obama you didn't build that business Obama did Trump
points out removing some regulations cutting some energy prices has caused a surge but
we were supposed to be going into austerity by now that's what it openly been said at
all the universities the big think tanks what Obama gave speeches about in Argentina and
Brazil and Nigeria and South Africa and Thailand and you name it you can't have a car you can't
have air conditioning that that's going to make the earth boil over but I can I'm the
feudal class I'm the overlord class that controls the feudalists that controls the slaves so
take Russia this is a boil down just stalls of a historical research I've done you know
that fades with a mist of memory but you get the Soviet Union a enclave of leftist expansion
the public uses total brainwash slaves to build a technological system to challenge
the West and expand but also make the West expand to face that threat becoming what it
claimed it was fighting so a very sophisticated Machiavellian gambit that was very successful
and they've declassified the fact that that was the case people like McCarthy came along
and exposed our own Carnegie Foundation and the army are running the Soviet Union and
advising him and our economists tell them what to do he was out of there at that point
when he was just wanting to spy on people and get rid of the Bill of Rights he was a
wonderful guy but as soon as he broke through to the real level of what was going on he
was bye bye and now it's all declassified the Russians know it's all come out and they're
pretty pissed off so again as an example of where we should go we look at countries like
Russia you go back to 1991-92 they had seven or eight big oligarchs all owned by western
banks the people were kept artificially poor there wasn't supposed to be an economy in
Russia Russia was purely extraction at point blank range no economy starvation level the
state run institutions collapsing used up they thought they'd come in a final phase with
oligarchs and cut it up even more and bring in Western colonialism in the end phase after
communism that only took 30 years in China it took 80 plus until the globalist thought
Russia was ready for full absorption or the asinguation the bloodsucking but Russia came
back kicked that out seized control of the means of production began transferring it
to the people and institutions loyal to the population in a nationalist populist blood
and soil program from that launch point the globalist was still arrogant moving on but
that same instinct that same human instinct the sleeping giant only coming back at the
point of cultural death began to launch all over the world and so Trump's great triumph
is cultural victory pro-human victory pro-western values victory both crushing the back of free
speech controllers going after the censors and making us be a nation again and if they
try to sabotage our economy and try to shut us down as sanctions and internal espionage
and attacks did in Russia in the last 17 18 years the Russians dug in and have built an
even better homogeneous economy which is a good thing that is independent and not under
outside control and burgeoning technology and so many other systems and finally turning
their population reduction program back from the break of death and showing meager games
we can do that in space and so that's what I'm telling you they hijacked the stock market
and plunge it they try to block new jobs coming in they do all this no Trump came in in the
midst of our final beheading bringing us down like Russia had been and reversed it and now
he's fighting with this whole structure as you are and as I am and the system thinks you're
so shallow that if they can implode the economy if they can bloody the nose of this victory
you'll somehow like a bunch of sharks roll over and turn on someone who believed in you
and is making hundreds of phone calls a day and traveling the country trying to supercharge
the nation and who's made the decision to fight their bubbles with a bubble based on you and
the globalists have taken record profits off the exuberance because they were already going
to get it all to begin with they don't like that because they know a lot of that money
is going to you but it's bigger than that the victory is cultural they could bring us
into a depression that's why we got to be independent and prepared they could do anything
to us to break our will and make us accept the nightmare of disarmament the nightmare
of cultural brainwashing the nightmare of the race war division they're sowing and we
know the number one mission is to spiritually and culturally and physically not be under
the globalist system because a hundred years after the big new york banks financed the
bolshevik revolution they believe and sorrows believed that last year would be their victory
with hair hillary and it fell on its face so money is a secondary issue they want to
make it the issue of making you so poor you've got to have it trump wants to make you be comfortable
so you can do the higher things but know this if they think they're going to try to take
the monetary away from us like a dog holding on to a bone we have to understand it's the
long fight and as bad as things may get they'd be a lot worse and according to the enemy's
terms if we had stood up for the entire long committed fight hear that that's the sound
of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place and what they don't steal
will be destroyed this year resolve not to be the next victim of a break in go to fake
tv dot com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching tv
even when your miles away security is a mindset and fake tv should be part of your security
solution be vigilant but not fearful fake tv dot com fully cooked ready to eat bacon
i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use
some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a ten year shelf life nasa pack
technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or
warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon ten year shelf life bacon ships free at fully
cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot com info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough
in modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and
respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in
france noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced
less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus
production and against studying the effects in published trials in their public trials
now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet just two two
tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working
in about fifteen minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe
naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at info wars life dot com by calling till
three triple eight two five three three one three nine you know i've got some talking
points here about caveman from info wars life dot com but instead of going on those talking
points let me just give you what i've experienced personally from all the wives tales every culture
we know that the bones have the essence we know chicken noodle soup is great for people
that are sick again in every culture this has been reported because it works and there's
no way to quantify how strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible ladies
and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your arteries and your veins
whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and gentlemen is the strongest
most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing find out for yourself today
at info wars store dot com what you do for your family and again i want to thank you
all for your support you are funding the information war in two thousand eighteen i am very proud
to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic
we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body biome
defense is an exclusive blend of fifty billion live and active cultures from over twenty three
different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function
our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at info wars life dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally
we've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first run of the public
so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the info war
you're listening to the alex jones show if you are receiving this transmission you are
the resistance you're listening to alex jones all right i got a lot of clips i want to play
here i said i get to your calls and then i just got jammed up with news but tomorrow
we will open the phones up a lot of big guests coming up and i do want to take a lot of your
calls and the war rooms coming up as well with on shroyer and roger stone paul watson
is going to host the fourth hour from england always informative but seriously i said last
segment that i'm saying some of the most important things i've ever said and i guarantee you almost
everybody listens said buddy that's everything my grandma and grandpa said everything my preacher
said everything i think about it tonight don't tell us something we don't already know it's
it's it's the greatest truths that are hiding right in front of us the greatest truths are
the average person just wants enough money to be comfortable take care of their family
have decent transportation and maybe see a couple cool places a year there is a wanderlust
one of the things i like having some money is that i can go see things but then i'm always
so busy fighting the globalist i don't so sometimes i do a kind of work case if i need
to go cover something then you know every once in a while i'll take the family but that's
like once a year now and i'm not ashamed of that fact i mean i'm proud of the fact that
in my hierarchy of needs it's not walking down red carpets in fact that wasn't something
i really wanted 20 years ago but i still thought it was kind of interesting now it's not even
on my pyramid remember in health class they had the hierarchy of needs what was it called
maslos or something but it had like shelter and foods at the bottom and then you want
to have friendship and community and then you want to have organizational systems to
take care of others and then you really become purely charity driven and that is how a good
person is because when you really become successful then as maslos i was going from
from memory 30 years ago that was like in freshman and high school or something i'll
be 44 next week self-actualization esteem love belonging safety psychology they gotta
have your basic psychology and then be operating not as an insane person so sanity we'll see
how my memory does from 30 something years ago let's go back so you've got about 31 years
ago i read this in the textbook and but it made sense to me so sanity is the number one
thing you need in life then it's it's it's yeah yeah physiological your body i mean i
know it's physiological but i'm saying psychology you gotta have your body gotta have your health
gotta have food gotta have your psychology you gotta have i'm kind of combining a bunch
of things there they were pointing out a typo i was kind of combining it all together so
you gotta have your food gotta have your water gotta have your shelter gotta have your your
mind and not be insane and then safety you're not insane you've got a decent village you're
good people got enough fish to catch everybody's doing great you're taking care of grandma and
grandfather taking care of you because they don't want plants to take when you're sick
and then safety because you don't want a bunch of folks coming over the next hill and enslaving
you because they might be bad folks and then there's love and belonging feeling like you
have kinship and then there is a steam the fact that you're proud of the fact that's
what's happening and other people are proud of you and you've had success in the community
you've mastered some things and then finally self-actualization but self-actualization
is very empowering but it's also like having a much taken away from me because let me tell
you something i used to enjoy even 15 years ago being famous and being able to affect
things and rubbing it into enemies and defeating people that were bad as you get more conscious
like rocket boosters on the space shuttle falling off you kind of miss it because that
engine of ego and and the raw lust for power even though i was a moral person and a good
person and didn't like pedophiles and didn't like globalists and didn't like artists still
it was about i'm big i'm bad i'm strong and i'm going to beat all of you i've still got
that skeleton but then it becomes self-actualization then if we can't defeat these bad people we're
going to lose the whole species and i really am everybody else that's around me and it's
complete collectivism but you don't do collectivism at the bottom that creates nightmares of hell
collectivism is individually deployed by individuals that have become self-actualized
to the larger global system of interconnectedness but it doesn't mean you give up your individualism
for some greater good that always becomes a tyranny it means you balance all of that
and gauge the good of the whole knowing you're part of a large continuum or compendium that's
always expanding let's see there are other people who aren't born in my view as genetic
psychopaths or born as genetic sociopaths but are artificially brought into it seeking
power seeking shelter seeking safety they never go above the second level and in seeking
safety they enter into deals with the devil and with the system believing that will empower
them and become models of the psychopathic barbarous aggressive murderous systems that
they've seen that they believe are successful and they're able to then organize all of that
and deploy all of that synthetically it's been said that peace is an artificial construct
and is only us denying our real selves no peace is us accepting our real selves but
also understanding peace has many definitions and means basically the absence of open war
and barbarism so we create law we create systems of violence that are not physically violent
but then there are super classes above that that act in true violence but covert violence
through culture chemical biological radiological to wage war against the entire population
in a self actualization of pure satanism where you say I am not as I become self actualized
someone connected everybody else I hate them I hate how they look I hate how they sound
I hate the fact that they're there contending their wills with me and so I want to dumb
them down and then kill them and that is a self actualization of the globalist and they
think those of us that are self actualized that don't want to go with that plan are fools
but then I take one look at these so-called elitist and they're not elitist you know the
crew put up a London independent article that says mal killed 45 million people well there's
the cultural revolution the great leap forward a bunch of the stuff but the CIA says 65 million
and the Communist Chinese Party says 84 million and they say that mistakes were made so I
don't know what the real number is but 45 million is a low number 65 is a moderate number
94 million in the 20th century that's reason with an article it's much higher than that
do you think about that that's something you want to be running from but see the average
dumb down trendy who feels disempowered who can't even get the basic psychology the basic
physiology the basic working body which above all you need a working mind that's why I see
physiology I think psychology I think your mental capacity automatically my brain just
sees that word and you think about what they've done you think about what's unfolded and you
think about what they've turned us into and it's just incredible it's the quest to get
out of the way of fellow humans and build them up so you have a future with other humans
because you realize your great-great-grandchildren are you and there's a love of this great continuum
of knowledge and energy and soul that will then manifest in the future and do incredible
things and it's that anti selfishness that actually is the most selfish thing of all
because once you bridge that gap you've now made the connection in the future and have
now become beyond self-actualized you have now become interdimensionally actualized with
the full beginning connections of the entire space-time continuum and have entered what
I can only describe as that absolute Zen moment of purity and total connectedness and that
is the place the globalist will not look that is the place they fear now I see some big
breaking news on info wars.com I haven't gotten to just broke a few minutes ago and that is
James Paddock believed he was under mine control well he had the classic cutout of a CIA asset
was all over the world and that's what we were told by our sources is that he was doing
gun running to Islamists who set him up but now that's Paul Joseph Watson Stephen Paddock
was paranoid he was under MKUltra info wars.com I want to plow into all of this I'm going to
spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy
t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info wars
store.com you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it
is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store.com I want to thank everybody
that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with
high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got
the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as
well info wars life.com or triple A 253 3139 and your purchase of the products stands with
us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic
pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're
coming back against us so we need your support elementary teachers in Canada are launching
SJW curriculum to combat belief in two genders kit daniels reports a teachers union has launched
a social justice curriculum for young children which includes lesson plans on combating heteronormativity
the common belief that there's two genders with natural roles in life the curriculum
entitled social justice begins with me was developed by the elementary teachers Federation
of Ontario and is geared toward young children up to age eight the curriculum encourages teachers
to read a book and class entitled the boy in the dress which is about a 12 year old
boy who enjoys crossdressing and another book called are you a boy or a girl the group represents
all public elementary school teachers in Ontario and it offers a rethinking white privilege
workshop and another that encourages children to explore their gender and intersectional
identities this may explain why homeschooling is on the rise in Canada Leanne McAdoo info
wars dot com introducing floor life the new probiotic line developed exclusively by info
wars life after years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics are made the
same floor life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical because stomach
acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic then you're
cheating your gut health and your wallet floor life supports your body's core where you need
it most including digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you know
that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut probiotic
levels is so important for overall health floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic
for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program head to info wars life dot com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics
today that's info wars life dot com over a year in the making produced by one of the
top organic firms in the country that if you want proven studies and documentation I'm
going to speak for hours on the files I have here of what this is proven to do the ingredients
in this this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year anytime of the
year but immune wall is incredible and folks other formulas that aren't even as good are
$70 $80 it's a great deal at 39 immune wall beta-glucans olive leaf and so much more it
is concentrated you need to go read what is in here the mushroom blend of the most expensive
highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend I mean this
is the next level it's now available ladies and gentlemen immune wall I think is beyond
seasonal beta-glucan olive leaf and more immune wall info wars store dot com info wars
life dot com or triple eight two five three three one three nine you're listening to the
all wants is coming up answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the Alex Jones show don't
believe our intel sources that we've got Chinese Communist hackers and others inside the Amtrak
switching systems another train crisis today I never even got to Amtrak train breaks apart
while traveling in high speed towards Boston decoupling the train cars thank God there
were no injuries meanwhile breaking on info wars dot com report Stephen Paddock was paranoid
he was a victim of government mind control now I'm not saying he was under mind control
but you know the unabomber said he was under mind control and then CIA documents got declassified
that Theodore Kaczynski volunteered and then disappeared for over a decade when he was
going to Harvard you can look it up in the LA Times in MK ultra mind control experiments
but oh you're volunteering for the experiment but once they get into it there's no volunteering
Las Vegas massacre gunman Stephen Paddock I talked about this the day of the shooting
the day after the shooting I talked about the mind control and said it should be looked
at not to make him a shooter but to be the patsy Las Vegas massacre gunman Stephen Paddock
was paranoid that he was the victim of government mind control according to prostitute has stated
his infamous Mandalay hotel suite they tried to cover up that she stayed there with him
by the way their article that has received virtually no attention the radar reveals that
had called girl who was booked to see Paddock earlier that day before the massacre was reported
missing by her boyfriend after shooting was up to 58 dead and 800 injured according to
the sex worker named a Kayla the prostitute was telling girls after work but she was scared
something would happen to her and folks told her about it get out of there you'll be dead
in 45 minutes mackayla worked as Paddock $6,000 a night prostitute slept with him the infamous
Mandalay hotel suite from which Paddock launches deadly assault she saw Paddock two or three
times a month for the 64-year-old gunman volunteered to be her sugar daddy so let's explain something
here he's got this nothing job but he's wandering hundreds of thousands of dollars a week in
front of people through things has these airplanes going to the Middle East flying around the
Islamic group comes to town Saudi Arabia is having a function their military function
the breakaway groups go to get guns from him they use that to launch the attack and the
whole thing some measures of Trump that's what I was told by high-level federal sources
because the whole story was fake and of course it's all starting to come out just as we told
you big story upon infowars.com also false tsunami warnings sent to East Coast Gulf of
Mexico and Caribbean this never happens the missile warning to all of this is meant to
spook the country into financial collapse just like the globalists did to Russia over
and over again the last 18 years and admittedly it's been declassified they've done that again
the only kinship with Russia is we're fighting the same globalist they're pulling the same
crap does it mean Trump's perfect no but we're trying to get control of our country again
and so if we judge Trump just by the economics they can try to take that away I think they're
going to fail more importantly is judging it by what happens culturally and don't forget
this huge story that no one pointed out we have it on infowars.com it's got no coverage
I didn't know this you got Uma Thurman saying they spit on her they made her crash cars
they said they didn't they should release the video her knocked out that they abused
you know that why she abused women and then he threatens to sewer even though there's
hundreds of witnesses to sex assaults rapes you name it he's just back to where he was
back to threatening everybody even all the media keeps defending it they try to crucify
other people with no proof shocking bombshell Quentin Tarantino defends Polansky's pedophile
rape of a little girl says sex with 13 year old isn't rape director statements even shocked
Howard Stern so I mean another degenerate another whatever shocking people with stuff
like Pulp Fiction which is an okay film he's got a lot of good actors but a bunch of the
crap movies unwatchable and he's just so arrogant he walked over me all dweebed out at some
premiere of a movie I know it was it was a what was it it was a premiere was a re-showing
with the director of exercise suit by the way was former CIA that was admitted and he also
had the French connection so I came to see the French connection I didn't say for the
double shelling you had to pay for the actresses didn't want to watch it and I walk out he
comes over he's like oh you're the conspiracy guy oh he just looked like he had a genetic
disorder or something which I'm not putting out how he looks it was just in person he's
even more idiotious and then one of his little minions scrabbled over as my then pregnant
wife with our first born going down the big stairs there jumped down with his feet and
tried to hit my ex-wife's feet he's a witness of this to make her go down and lose the child
and I just never forget I looked up and there was the newspaper reporter head at right next
to Tarantino with the guy and I didn't beat his ass because it was so crazy because oh
I'm sorry it's an accident it's an accident so there's my Quentin Tarantino story and
there's my ex-wife like seven months pregnant and I got Tarantino and some little goon going
around and I ever see Tarantino again I've thought about this a lot I'll give him a little
piece of my mind that's a guarantee because man the hindsight is 20-20 and I just you
know I never told that story there's my Quentin Tarantino story and that's what went on that's
what happened he was there look it up check it and that's the type of person he is and
I know the name of the guy that tried to kick my wife down the stairs all of it and it's
just it's unbelievable and again so why did you beat his ass it's like it's so surreal
and the person saying sorry sorry sorry and that person came after me later and did a
bunch of stuff and then I found out what it was about they see they're spiritually dialed
in but they're evil force and that was 16 years ago my son's 15 about to be 16 that
was 16 years ago while he was gestating in my ex-wife and I didn't understand it then
why he hated me so much why he saw me out there when the movie let out there was all
these big crowds and he come up and spoke you know introduced the Prince Connection
guy and I'm sitting there and you know back then it was a really trendy thing Hollywood
was kind of moving here but you know and you go see really cool movies and hear directors
all the time that's what launched Alamo Draft House and I'll never forget feeling somebody
look at me and seeing him like 30 feet away going that big chin all looking crazy and
kind of addling over what are you doing here getting in like sand slipping and walking
off and then I'm like hey let's get out of here and 40 seconds later man boom so you
will talk about evil he radiates it radiates it and I guess it was just so shocking when
I looked up and there was Tarantino because that old Alamo had like you know the big
long 20 stairs they had the old deal down it the big balcony stairs I remember looking
up there by thinking it was funny and just like let's get out of here because that demon
was right up there at the top of the stairs and it was just like I like this little little
Joker guy giggling and laughing up sorry it's now it's an accident Alex and I remember when
I was sitting there I see I was in their club I didn't know you'd read that the paper go
this sounds interesting I like the French connection I like the actors and I remember
that minion came over to me while I was sitting on the side of a road like five rows back
and said who worked for the local paper and said oh you're here what are you doing here
you shouldn't be here I forgot that part and two hours later they let me know you don't
come around us we'll spit on them a thermo we'll make her crash the car we'll you know
we'll cover up her Weinstein raping women every day and that's something just raving
demons raving demons and that's a true story 100% so people wonder why I'm so pissed off
at Tarantino I saw him one more time in a restaurant about 10 years ago and almost walked
over there and told him get up but I just didn't do it I can't prove that he was in
on that even though that was his little minion I don't know but imagine the evil that radiates
he's doing that constantly Tarantino what was that I was that special he's screwing
people and dominating them and getting them under his little filthy thumb because it turns
out he was a Renfield for Hollywood he for decades supplied things to him but he was
sick enough and filthy enough for them to love him so that's your Tarantino God so hope
I don't ever see you clear Tarantino all right there you go called you out scumbag
now that said we need to be flooded with capital defeat the enemy I want to watch on all these
satellites in the next month we're the up links are going in right now I'm gonna launch
all these new programs all these new they're trying to censor try to hit us go to infowarstore.com
and we will take it to the enemy 110% you've got an absolute guarantee from me from the
bottom of my heart to take action and we've got great deals great supplements great products
the very best systems and a lot of it is about to sell out at the prices 50 plus percent
off it's actually 51% off on pollen block cell force is going to be called DNA force
plus even stronger we get lower prices on it so we drop the price for you unbelievable
even that was the best seller we always pull out of DNA force now it's called DNA force
plus it's called cell force right now and so many other great products go there shop
with the good guys sign up for auto ship the additional 10% off free shipping or $50 or
more we got patriot points 5% off you know on on on every dollar you get the patriot
points Hollywood doesn't want us to have money they don't want us to be independent they
don't want us to be strong they don't want us to be focused they don't want us to be
upright they want us to be the little minions of people like Roman Polanski and Quentin
Tarantino and Harvey Weinstein and all this other cowardly nerd club demon sucker level
guess what humanity's awake now scum you're gonna have to face this toe to toe with all
the rest your zombies stay with us in full wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in
modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and
respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in
France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced
less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus
production they began studying the effects in published trials in their public trials
now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet just chew two
tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working
in about 15 minutes help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally
with fast-acting pollen block available now at info wars life.com by calling toll free
triple eight two five three three one three nine top scientists and researchers agree
we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat sick
and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters don't just sit there and take
it fight back with the all-new supercharged brain force plus and feel the rush without
the crash brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological tonic and cognitive
enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind it's the
real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com you're listening
to the Alex Jones show you know I thought about what happened that night I talked about
for 16 years and I swear on the altar God these people are gonna be brought to justice
shocking bombshell Tarantino defense Polanski's pedophilic rape of 13 year old drug girl says
sex with 13 year olds isn't rape the audio is up on info wars.com right now let's get
this article and slam it out there let's get it out to everybody these people believe they
own you and your family Paul Watson's coming up the next segment he's getting the Skype
connection dialed in by the way we don't tell these stories to sound big I don't want to
be part of Hollywood I'm already been in some movies they wanted me to be a bunch of others
I didn't do it I would do it if it was the right directors the right people to get a
good message across and some of those opportunities have come and some I've refused some have gone
and some others I thought about doing but only now that Hollywood's fully collapsed
only to then route them and show them what it's really all about but they have at least
eight or nine TV shows right now where they admit that the characters Alex Jones and
they say on the show it's Alex Jones or they name the episode info wars or Alex Jones where
pedophiles are named Alex Jones killers are named Alex Jones people don't want to kill
the female president or Alex Jones because they're going to have with all the scripts
you know despite the fact that every loss will homeland boss of season seven Trump inspiration
Alex Jones and rip Peter Quinn so this is a popular television show which is millions
of people every week and you tune into it just give you an example of what I'm talking
about here oh this isn't the marked up copy I had had my own copy I guess there's two
of these here and it says so this is the bad guys based on all shows they go oh yeah we
sit there for hours and we watch it and we can't believe all the things he says and we
put it in the show we'll know you don't put what I said in the show I'm running the fake
news on the show I'm a racist on the show I have hundreds and hundreds of employees
just to put out fake news and I said you know this Jake Weber who plays my part man I like
to get in the ring with him and I said that's metaphysically and they go oh Alex says they
said how much Alex Jones you've been watching to the research and they say oh a bunch they
goes on to say have you heard anything about Jones is he watching and now the answer is
no I just see some of the clips that get sent Alex Jones challenge Jake Weber to a fight
to a fist fight and what Alex Jones doesn't realize is that Jake Weber has been a boxer
for 30 years so I would oh really you want a bunch of titles went well when much advice
is just saying you're a boxer and being a boxer so I would not recommend getting in
the ring with him I want to get in the ring with him even more now my point is is I said
you steal my identity you steal our studio you say you're me in interviews and then you
say stuff like you don't like black people in my voice how about I sue you how about
that I mean I can only put up with so much of your identity theft because you steal my
identity and then you go around committing these virtual crimes in my name so I can then
be censored and attacked in the real world while Hollywood pisses in my face and the
American people's face and I'm sick of you I'm not flattered that they got shows where
that you know they the daughter of May West the famous girlfriend of Anton LeVay simulates
being raped as Millie Weaver in a show called info war by Antifa at Charlottesville and
then the jury lets them go and says good job raping women see that's their whole thing
how do we get the public to cheer a woman being raped and make it liberal and cool but then
destroy many women's society together claiming all sex is rape and maybe her daughter into
devil or spur like me west I mean she looks like me west the point is is she's up there
playing the part of Millie Weaver getting gang raped with blood all over the name of
the shows info wars on lawn order lawn order episode and it's all just a message we're
gonna rape your female reporters and it's brought to you by Hollywood the same people
that brought you Roman planches a great guy drug drugging thirteen-year-olds and raping
them they'll be back the Paul Watson I want to tell you about an exciting new product
we have available at info wars store.com and this is basically a product that I've been
taking anyway before we even launched our own version of it now the product is bodies
whole body support this is available right now at a massive 50% discount at info wars
store.com it's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support products on the market
it's got the black pepper which makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more now we're not even
including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically proven to
have so I just got this fresh today literally the seals not even being opened on it it's
just 29.95 again big big chunky bottle 120 capsules in this bottle it is bodies the ultimate
turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market available right now at info
wars store.com get it today big brother mainstream media government cover ups you want answers
well so does he live from Austin Texas broadcasting worldwide it's Alex Jones yeah I told some
pretty incredible true stories in the last 15-20 minutes the last hour I run in with
Quentin Tarantino and the fact that my ex-wife at the time she was right about it she said
how dare you not beat that guy's ass trying to kick me downstairs I said I couldn't believe
it I couldn't believe and then there's Quentin Tarantino right there and a local newspaper
writer all setting it up it was just too unbelievable but so was Quentin Tarantino going on Howard
Stern and saying hey I think it's okay to have sex with 13 year olds you know drug them
up it's not right if you drug them up and have sex with them because that's what happened
with Roman Polanski but see everything is coming out everything look at those two predators
together so I asked Paul Watson while we're on the subject of info wars with the markets
and everything else that's happening they know that Trump's trying to bring back prosperity
globalism siphons off prosperity Paul globalism picks winners it creates a 1% that did have
a third of the wealth that has 70% of it they're the same ones bitching saying get rid of capitalism
get rid of the ladder of success but just like Russia for decades has been under sanctions
and economic attack it made them more independent and homogenous economically and made them stronger
so I want prosperity that comes with getting out from under globalism but at the end of
the day if they try to hold us hostage with that we have to know they're the ones killing
the prosperity and they're the ones that have done it not Trump not nationalism Trump and
nationalism from the UK to the US to Catalan to Italy to Brazil to to the Czech Republic
to Czechoslovakia to what's happening in in Romania and Hungary and Poland and in Austria
they're all going nationalist and suddenly economies are coming back in the globalist
devastate the economy to try to bring us under heel we've all got to understand we're just
like the UK for you know several years of being encircled by you boats and you know family
of mine that went down in the North Atlantic trying to get lynn least weapons of the UK
you guys didn't give up under the year and a half of the Blitzkrieg and and and the blitz
and the bombs dropping we need that church hilly in speech well I want to you can't
find the full speech but they actually gave I never record stuff in movie theaters but
I didn't record the audio of the darkest hour where a kind of a scissified version of Churchill
gives the speech about you know we're going to go on to the end whatever the cost may
be and it's going to get rough but we're not going to give up people understand Trump was
going to be the the slick way kind of the rapture version of getting out of hell hopefully
but if they try to shut all this down capitulating the globalist means abject slavery and economic
servitude Paul Watson how do you connect that equation together about where we stand we
need to know we try to do this via prosperity and I think it's already coming back and hopefully
it stays there but we can't be held hostage to that with the globalists know whatever
they pull we're going to be nationalist and free marketeers and fight even harder because
they want their money to we've got to play chicken with them and let them know we're
not going to turn the wheel we're going in through and beyond you catch what I'm saying
well Alex the Dow is now it just almost went up 500 points it went it went from 330 to 500
in the space of about five minutes so I guess today it's all thanks to Obama again right
they've spent the past year saying that all these economic numbers the record highs in
the stock market is all thanks to Obama yesterday and Friday obviously plunged so that was thanks
to Trump now it's back up 484 points coming to the close of the session I guess here in
a couple of hours so I guess now it's thanks to Obama all over again and that's the thing
Alex 81 times the Dow hit a high during Trump's first year in office the mainstream media
reported on it only 17 times and what of course did we see yesterday complete wall to wall
coverage and people on Twitter the verified checkmarks as you would expect saying oh well
that's it it's over for Trump now isn't it listen we had a year of the left saying oh
the stock market's got you know nothing to do with mainstream Wall Street's got nothing
to do with Main Street this has got nothing to do with Americans ordinary Americans in
their financial situation soon as it drops 1500 points oh it's got everything to do with
it so it's just the same narrative over and over again for a year they said it was all
thanks to Obama as soon as it tanks they turn around and blame Trump so they're gonna do
it again whether this is a correction or not remains to be seen but I agree I'm saying
aren't there things even more important than money it's great to have that but we culturally
and societally and sovereignty wise what we're getting is what it's all about if you don't
have that the prosperity doesn't flow well no it's I mean but if you take regulation
often you encourage small and medium businesses to grow doesn't matter whether the stock market
goes back and forth exactly hundred thousand points the fundamentals are there for continued
growth and to encourage people to start businesses not to shut them down with regulation which
is what Obama did for eight years and what did you make of the leftist media all celebrating
oh look it's down it's Trump's fault I mean they're I mean these people are absolutely
trying to destroy us they want Americans to fail I mean you saw it and you know people
were triggered during the state of the union fleeing the the chamber there they refused
to clap record low black unemployment Alex let's face it this is what I said in a tweet
today if there was a global economic collapse many on the left would completely embrace
it and welcome it because they would use it to justify their Trump derangement syndrome
they're quite willing to see America fail so long as it means they can point the finger
at Trump they want America to fail at least like being on a plane and wanting the pilot
and the co-pilot to have heart exactly I've had liberals confront me and I go in your
401k up 35% they go yeah but I don't care there was a I think it was who was the Eichman
who said the guy who was triggered by the gif who filed a police report for assault because
he said he had epilepsy because of a gif image that guy before you could probably pull up
the tweet if they can find it he said he'd taken all of his kids money out of the stock
market because it was guaranteed to collapse under Trump remember this was the narrative
as soon as Trump won the stock market the economy now absolutely guaranteed to collapse
is back up 400 points yeah it's going to go back and forth but they all took their money
out of the stock market as some kind of virtue you're talking about Kirk Eichman wall the
technical porn guy were aliens rape children Eichman wall that's the guy is that's what
that's a tweet that has not aged well where he's talking about he took all his kids money
out the stock market and it went up what was it like 30% since he made that tweet at least
so obviously there's a correction and it you know it's related to the Federal Reserve
economists will tell you that but these things are going to go back and forth if you hit
what was it 25,000 in such a short space of time obviously you're going to get a correction
but as you said it's the fundamental underlying principles have taken off the regulation encouraging
people to start businesses lowering tax rates if you stick with that method things are generally
going to pick up things are generally going to be all right whatever the stock market
does tell us what you got coming up Paul Joseph Watson the next 40 minutes I'm going to butt
out here and let you honcho this operation thanks Alex yeah we've got Michael Heaver
coming up at the bottom of the hour he is the reporter and commentator over at West
Monster dot com because we're talking about the UK and this is what I want to get into
now we've got a headline up on Sky News Theresa May to announce crackdown on social media
abuse we've literally got hundreds of ISIS jihadists 425 at least they've returned from
Syria and Iraq and have been allowed back into the United Kingdom they're talking about
reintegrating them giving them benefits giving them social housing put of them putting them
ahead of the queue of ordinary British citizens for council houses for free housing for tax
breaks for social welfare benefits 425 at least ISIS jihadists they've not they're not even
tracking a significant portion of those ISIS jihadists they refuse to say how many they
say it's a significant portion so we're looking at hundreds of hardened ISIS militants who
have come back into the country who are not being tracked who are not being surveilled
meanwhile the prime minister Theresa May is devoting government resources at a time when
the police forces are completely stretched when they're begging for people to come out
of retirement to join the police they're putting resources into patrolling online social media
abuse so basically people being mean to each other on the internet that's what they're
focusing on you got 3400 people being arrested every year roughly in the UK for things they
say online that they treat Facebook as being more of a threat than returning ISIS jihadists
comments on Facebook and more of a threat is ridiculous we'll get back into it after the
break info wars dot condo go away are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals
are you happy doing laundry with detergents are you happy paying high prices find your
happiness with pure soap these all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best
you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 months of plot or get items individually
and still save big you're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now earth
friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best happiness is five star soap dot com
why not put your money up the drain for a change see them at five star soap dot com or call
1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give
you good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable
and coconut oils see their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com that's
at five star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog it's a no brainer a big burky
water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine
fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and
much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted
name and gravity water filtration big burky and now GCN listeners receive five percent
raw ceramic filter systems using code GCN call or click 1-877-99 burky or big burky
water filters dot com that's 1-877-99 BERKEY Hawaii was a wake up call don't be caught
without a disaster shelter atlase makes an all disaster shelter that will protect your
family from fallout tornadoes and hurricanes for only 99.99 that also includes the NBC air
filtration system solid steel construction with an airtight bulletproof door that's right
for 99.99 and call 1-855-4 BUNKER or go to iwantthatshelter.com atlase survival shelters the world leader
in fallout shelters former Facebook and Google employees are speaking out against what they
say are societal dangers posed by social media and smartphones the group recently formed
the center for humane technology and they're on a mission to highlight the ill effects
associated with the very social networks they helped create as part of their first campaign
titled the truth about tech the group will target 55,000 US public schools in an effort
to warn students teachers and parents about tech addiction Tristan Harris a former ethicist
at Google and head of the new group says the largest supercomputers in the world are inside
of two companies Google and Facebook and where are we pointing them we're pointing them at
people's brains at children numerous studies have linked excessive technology use among
children to depression and developmental issues the center for humane technology also hopes
to develop a ledger of harms a site to inform tech engineers who may be worried about what
they're building you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our
organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to
keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars
life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on
over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com
we're listening to the alex joneshow live from the info wars dot com studios you're
listening to the alex joneshow and now your host joseph watson it is the fourth hour of
production before we get back into the news and go on to talk to our guest i want to tell
you about some of the great specials we have at info wars store dot com including the
all new product bodies at a limited time price of 2995 that's a huge 50% discount this is
the medicinal herb for thousands of years turmeric one of the most studied ingredients
known today and after a long search for the perfect turmeric formula we've finally created
a way to deliver this incredible incredible ingredient to you for less and it is bodies
this is why i'm taking because i was taking turmeric anyway it's noted for its powerful
antioxidant bone support joint support flexibility support all the benefits inflammation support
and immune support it's got the turmeric root extract it's got the bozwellia serrata extract
the organic spearmint sage lemon balm and time leaves piperine which is from black pepper
and of course when i even including many of the benefits that have been reported from
people taking turmeric you can go online and read numerous scientific peer reviewed studies
which link it to improve mood we don't even brag about that on the bottle we're just talking
about the joint support the mobility support which again is all documented with these ingredients
bodies is a true 360 win and it can help you again with all those issues including inflammation
support and immune support it's available right now at just 2995 yet a big fat chunky
bottle i think he's got 60 capsules in it yes a 60 days no it's actually double that
so yeah you take two a day it's a 60 day supply it is bodies is 2995 massive 50% off discount
and it's available right now at info wars store.com the most advanced formula yet also
we have cell force there and all the other products including pollen block which again
is 50% off at info wars store.com with the pollen season starting again alex has talked
about how much that has helped him and with the bodies i'm taking that i can personally
vouch for it it's available right now at info wars store.com for a massive discount get
it today support this network we're funded only by you that's how we're able to remain
independent we're not influenced by advertisers telling us what to do we're not influenced
by left-wing boycott campaigns trying to sabotage our financial basis which other media networks
are you know prone to because they don't have their own in-house products we do which means
we're only responsible to you the listener the reader the viewer so please support us
at info wars store.com now i mentioned this before the break let's get into it sky news
headline tereza mate who announced crackdown on returning isis jihadist no social media
abuse so basically they want to devote a bunch of resources to quote the fact that women
gay people and members of ethnic minorities are being abused on social media now while
all abuse online abuse or whatever kind of abuse is a porn this is not a major problem
given how stretched our police forces are in the united kingdom given how little money
we have to devote to them given how we have over 400 isis jihadists returning being allowed
back into the country it's not like oh look maybe we shouldn't let hardened isis terrorists
back into the country no that hasn't even been part of the debate let him in roll out
a friggin red carpet they're even talking about giving them social housing benefits
putting them to the front of the queue in front of ordinary british citizens to get
these benefits so we can reintegrate isis jihadists into society so we don't lose a generation
of young people while i'm afraid they're already lost and when you've got people being moaned
down on the streets you can't afford to be limp rested with this kind of thing but what
is the government concentrating on online abuse misogyny on social media i mean they
did the studies which found that 50 percent of quote misogyny was the responsibility of
other women so they paint it as this big evil patriarchal abuse of women 50 percent of it
is other women the studies have proven that and it's Theresa May again at the forefront
of this fear mongering about it we've got bigger problems in this country oh and by
the way you know who gets the most online abuse it's conservatives you look at tommy
robinson he gets death threats every single day he posts them on twitter what do the police
do about it absolutely nothing he literally has to go and find these people himself i
mean look at katie hopkins she gets violent threats on a daily basis look at zach goldsmith
there you see tommy robinson confronting one of the individuals who spewed death threats
at him after being radicalized by this islamist on twitter he went to the police with it they
did absolutely nothing about it now he had zach goldsmith who was the former candidate
for mayor of london he posted yesterday on his twitter account a letter that one of his
constituents had received an 80 year old woman and it said where the real 48 percent these
are people who voted against brexit quote we are coming for you we are going to kill
you now that's not just social media that's a letter being put through the door of an
80 year old woman's house because she voted for brexit so i asked where where exactly
is this abuse being directed they say it's all about gay people ethnic minorities islamophobia
women and yeah that happens but it happens a heck of a lot more from what i've seen to
anyone who dares express an opinion right of chairman mal on twitter at this point the
hate the vitriol is that virulent so they're not talking about that the police whenever
tommy robinson gets a death threat the police do absolutely nothing about it it's a complete
joke so we've got to reason a fronting this program to devote resources to policing speech
on the internet they literally use that term in the article policing the internet that's
not a problem that we should put at the front of the queue when we have literal isis jihadist
roaming free on the streets bright bar headline may government admit significant portion of
returned islamic say jihadist going unpunished they've not just let them in they're not even
keeping them under surveillance why oh we can't afford it we don't have enough resources oh
but you've got enough resources to patrol mean comments on twitter who cares we've got
people being moaned down in the streets for god's sake meanwhile we've got this happening
bear in mind again that isis jihadists are roaming the streets and not even being surveilled
tell you who is being surveilled christian teachers england teacher fired for telling
lesbian student student god loves you this is in bristol england a christian teacher
told a lesbian student oh i don't this i don't agree with your lifestyle but i love you and
jesus loves you and god loves you how dare she she was reported to the government's prevent
radicalization program basically that means she was reported as a potential terrorist
for telling this lesbian student god loves you she was fired guilty of gross misconduct
for that fired and reported to the government's terrorist radicalization program for saying
god loves you to a lesbian student student that's intolerable meanwhile isis jihadists
are on the streets they're not doing anything about it the uk at this point is a complete
joke we'll be back after the break with michael heaver to talk about it info wars dot com
don't go away hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your
horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique slingshots and slingbows on the market
at slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798 they're perfect
for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the excitement
and tradition of slingbow a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com the answer to being in control of your own
health care is freedom from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients that
come together to share in each other's medical expenses individual share amounts begin at
$107 a month and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs holistic treatments
may be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount programs available for dental vision
and pharmacy go to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels with
our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every
day up optimum levels B vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines two bioactive forms
of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient in B vitamins can
cause fatigue depression or memory and lethargists secret 12 up optimal absorption B vitamins help
the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes B vitamins are
also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system up optimum
levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake head to info wars
life dot com support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars
life dot com support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free
products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver
designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint
oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste super blue fluoride
free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural
oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
our super blue line is loaded with a good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride
free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free
products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info wars store
dot com that's info wars store dot com i'm so excited the new product info wars life
dot com in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute
top the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have
any stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly i just
went off what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription
but they were charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came
up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right
here in america 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which
is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones
in your glands it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store dot com and your
purchase funds the operation you're listening to the alex jones show broadcasting live from
the un stronghold austin texas you're listening to the alex jones show and now your host paul
joseph watson live it is the fourth hour of the alex jones show when i'm joined by my
guest he is a reporter and commentator for west monster dot com he's on twitter at michael
underscore heaver and he is the future prime minister of britain he is michael heaver michael
welcome over playing it slightly but thank you very much now before the break i was talking
about this article which i woke up to this morning absolutely enraged by it as you can
imagine tereza may has announced she'll basically front a new government body or a government
program at least to devote resources to tackling online abuse which basically means mean comments
on the internet to quote better police the internet we've also got the government funding
a dedicated national security unit to tackle fake news and disinformation which we know
is a completely subjective term in michael i know the government can do more than one
thing at a time but can this country really afford to be policing speech so tereza may
can look good and so she can virtue signal or do you think there are more pressing matters
more pressing security matters that we should be concentrating right now and on in this country
well as you mentioned paul i mean the situation in britain now is quite extraordinary in terms
of returning british jihadis this is something that we at west wants to be looking at for
a number of months now and i just want to lay this out to your viewers that aren't aware
of this this isn't just a british phenomenon we're seeing this go on across europe and
right across the world hundreds and hundreds of jihadis that have been so committed to
islamic state that they've gone out and supported islamic state in syria and iraq wish their
lives to get there these people are out there they've about half of them have come back
that went from britain have returned and we are now in a situation where the government
are basically saying a significant proportion aren't deemed to be of national security risk
can you imagine how dedicated a jihadist how sick you have to be to go and support these
people you know burn people alive you know rape children abuse people kill people torture
people these people are so committed they've gone over there hundreds have come back and
our government our security services apparently are deeming them hundreds of them to not be
worth scrutinizing in terms of national security that many of them may be walking the street
without any analysis at all i and this isn't just going in britain as i say this is right
across europe and as you mentioned to have to have hundreds of these people walking around
in britain i think is horrifying what's even more horrifying is it's going as i say right
across europe in other countries and you're right the priority here the number one priority
for any government should be to protect the public to protect the people of those countries
and yet we see this incredible situation where hundreds and hundreds of jihadis hardened
potentially trained to kill are back in the country and being assessed as not being of
national security concern it simply doesn't add up and i think we need more answers on
exactly who these people are well exactly i mean i contrast it to this the fact that
per year this was a rough number british police arrest three thousand three hundred ninety
five people every year for quite offensive online comments those are people who say things
on facebook yes you may be offended by them they may be racist they may be islamophobic
but they've got plenty of resources to devote to that meanwhile you know the bbc report
it's not practical for police to investigate all crime so it's not just with the terrorism
threats with the crime threat as well and yet that that constant therese may is constantly
banging on about oh online abuse yet that's actual resources that's actual police time
that's been dedicated to that we also had another story today michael which i mentioned
on the show there was a teacher in bristol who was fired for telling a lesbian student
god loves you a christian teacher they reported her to the government's counterterrorism program
the prevent program as a radicalization threat she was fired from her job you know and meanwhile
those are the people being reported as terrorists and she was investigated it wasn't just laughed
off as it should have been meanwhile as he said you got hundreds of actual terrorists
that have come back from from syria from iraq fighting for isis potentially beheading people
stoning people to death and hundreds of them have just been let loose they're not even
under surveillance do you think it's it's actual you know it's actually related to a resource
issue or is it just this general disregard for not treating islamic terrorism with the
importance it should be treated well let me say this cool i mean there's a new defense
secretary in britain called gavin williamson and he came and this is what really perplexes
me about this situation he came in and gavin williamson basically said rightly in my opinion
that jihadis that go abroad and support islamic state should either be killed and certainly
should never be let back into britain and yet when you have a defense secretary in government
saying that the british policy appears to be something very different so it seems to me
that on one hand you've got these ministers saying things like the brewery shrew was another
and i remember saying that these people shouldn't be allowed back they should be killed abroad
and yet the actual policy is that hundreds are back so then i start to ask the question
poll then i start to ask the question have these people been allowed back by the government
has there been a deal done some sort of conversation had or is it the case that a complete incompetence
and weak borders have actually allowed these people to return and the government have only
found out about it upon their return because i don't see how you marry up the fact that
government ministers including a defense secretary are basically saying you should kill these
people they shouldn't come back with the fact that right now in this country hundreds of
them are back i don't i think we need a serious answer on that how we can have as i say the
government saying one thing and yet government policy seems to be pointing towards a completely
different reality and a quite scary one to be quite honest with you it's absolutely
incredible and i mean after the last terror attack and it was a london bridge attack you
know to reason they said enough is enough and still she's she's continuing with these
policies of treating online mean comments on the internet as more of a threat more of
a concern than actual terrorists on the streets is absolutely baffling to me let's talk about
to reason me you know she was in a position where she could have seized on this populist
wave that swept europe over the past 18 months she completely failed she failed to be bold
which is what she needed to be she would have had the support of the population if she'd
done that you know she's got the leadership skills of a of a dishcloth she keeps getting
in spats with trump you know just a virtue signal even more about how she's you know
not like trump you know she's on course to lose an election according to the current
polls to a man who literally supports terrorist groups and socialist policies that erect nations
like venezuela that's how pathetic she is how on earth michael is to reason me still
in office and what's it going to take to turf her out well it's quite credible if you look
at that um the davos event where you had donald trump loud loud his vision which is basically
this phenomenal vision for an america that had strong borders that welcomed only those
um that had something to contribute and wanted to be part of the sort of his vision for america
and you can contrast it that with therese amaze beach where no one can actually remember
what much of what she said because it was just so dull so boring and yeah what you see
now in the conservative party is that all of the favorites to now succeed to reason man
is quite a bit of speculation here in the uk of course that she may be ousted all of
the favorites to succeed to reason maya jakey breeze mob michael gov and borris johnson
all campaigned um four league four brexit in the referendum we had here in britain and
i think that speaks to me in that people have had enough really of this slow plotting approach
you know a lot of people went out and voted leave to get back control of britain's borders
and we're now being told by the government that's not going to happen until at least
2021 oh and by the way by the way the government want you to believe that in 2019 when we leave
the EU we then have to enter a transition period whereby we'll still be uh having to
listen to EU laws and we'll have to have to implement new EU laws as well the whole things
are complete dog's dinner and that's why you're now seeing brexit tears surgeon support that's
why you're seeing serious doubts into reason man brexit is not being delivered and there's
a lot of impatience growing and a lot of anger as well and i want to get into more into brexit
after the break i put out a tweet a couple of days ago you know retweet for reese mob
being prime minister i think you've got about 10 000 retweets talking about mog mentham he's
got a hell of a lot of mog mentham since that incident at the university on fingers friday
where he confronted not in an aggressive way but to actually shut down and shame those
thug ish they called them protesters they weren't protesters so there's a lot of momentum
behind mog right now a lot of support we'll talk about after the break with michael heaver
this is the alex germshaw live in four wars dot com we'll be back crooked hillary is added
again gaslighting the population she says trump is using the phyzen memo as a scapegoat
for the russia probe speaking to students at georgetown university clinton said her
loss is attributed to misogyny and sexism but another contributing factor was the outgrowth
of all the anxiety and insecurity playing on some people and leading them on a hunt for
scapegoats but thanks to those damning text messages between two anti trump fbi investigators
we know the russia investigation was meant to be clinton's scapegoat for losing the
2016 election peter struck in his mistress lisa page outlined an insurance policy to
be rail trump should he win the election fbi officials like struck and former deputy director
andrew mccabe were quarterbacking the investigation into clinton's illegal server the phyzen memo
itself details evidence of the clinton campaign colluding with the fbi doj and the state department
lian macadoo info wars dot com you know i've got some talking points here about caveman
from info wars life dot com but instead of going on those talking points let me just
give you what i've experienced personally from all the life's tales in every culture
we know that the bones have the essence we know chicken noodle soup is great for people
that are sick again in every culture this has been reported because it works and there's
no way to quantify how strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible ladies
and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your arteries and your veins
whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and gentlemen is the strongest
most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing find out for yourself today
at info wars store dot com what to do for your family and again i want to thank you
all for your support you are funding the information war in 2018 info wars life is
bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way
to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen block
in the 1960s researchers in france noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose, itchy
watery eyes and excessive mucus production they began studying the effects in published
trials in their published trials now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast
acting chewable tablet just two two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and
fast acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting pollen block available now
at info wars life dot com by calling toll free triple eight two five three three one
three nine vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure your chemist we
have worked for years with our chemist and scientist to create the most powerful and
affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix
at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals
and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've
brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and
so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed
for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral
products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are
either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means
it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's
info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
we're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host joseph watson we are back live with michael heaver of west monster dot com who hails from
the current acid attack capital of europe as do i london and i wanted to ask michael
about that michael we've seen this surgeon knife crime we're gonna get back into brexit
in a second but we've seen this surgeon knife crime and acid attacks especially over the
course of the last year violent crime way up have we nailed down if there is a correlation
between this surgeon violent crime and acid attacks with mass migration and with over
population well i certainly think the areas of london now become very lawless we saw at
the end of last year a new story emerge of delivery drivers in swathes of london after
certain times at night when it got dark refusing basically to deliver anymore i mean that is
a no-go area i don't know what it is and what we're seeing i think is a lot of different
factors playing into this i think we're seeing a cut in police numbers and law and order
really in britain it's gone so soft now the messages that we send out to our youngsters
are so weak we do not send out a strong enough message and you're right the statistics on
this are absolutely horrendous if you look at something like knife crime 21 increase
year on year gun crime in london up 44 percent since 2014 robberies year on year across the
country up 29 percent reported rape up 29 percent so this isn't a lot of acid attacks
we're seeing this is a new phenomenon unfortunately that's a scourge on our streets i think there's
a wider context this actually poor which is that we're seeing a complete breakdown in
law and order as a result of a very very weak approach as a result of cutting police numbers
i'm really seeing violent crime especially rising nationally a huge numbers as i say
a 20 percent year on year increase in knife crime knife offenses a 44 percent increase
in london on gun crime since 2014 these are huge rises in relatively small small amounts
of time so it's clearly not going away anytime soon if we don't change tact in this country
and start actually having neighborhoods where we see police on the street because you never
see it anymore then i'm afraid we're going to see this scourge of violence continue i'm afraid
yeah a lot of those police are probably too busy knocking on people's doors because they said
something offensive on facebook again three thousand three hundred and ninety five people
arrested for offensive online comments they said it's not practical for police to investigate
all crime and yet we have this wave of violent crime this wave of acid attacks but don't worry
because sidic corn his main policy over the past month or two has been the implementation of
transgender toilets in london and we know that that's obviously more important than acid attacks
as he said actual no go zones now in areas of london but again the media claims all day long
don't exist they do exist for the people who have to go into them and refuse to do so for their own
safety on a move quick we've got about seven minutes left michael the nhs yesterday trump
tweeted about it uh are based off of what nigel forage said on fox news basically that people
were protesting on the streets about the state of the nhs again it's not a slight against the
people who work for the nhs because that is one hell of a tough job but he drew attention to it
the left again went crazy they don't go crazy when corbin talks about it because he's gone obviously
but when trump talks about the problems with the nhs they go insane because they treat it as some
kind of religious deity that can't be criticized michael does the nhs which for our american
audience is basically socialized healthcare does it really live up to its moniker right now in this
country as the envy of the world well look you've had doctors and nurses in this country now
describe it as third world at times and that's their words not mine and nigel forage was making a
very basic point there's a complete state of denial in britain over this very very basic
fact for the last set of annual population growth figures showed that the uk population increased
by 538 000 in one year that is the highest amount for 70 years now it wasn't all driven by mass
migration but 62 percent of it was these are the official government statistics how can a country
like britain have over half a million a year population growth that's a hell of a lot of
patients there's a hell of a lot of babies there's a hell of a lot of young people there's a hell of a
lot of people needing care how can that not have an impact on hospitals and as i say the thing that
frustrates me over here is you'll see tv report after tv report after tv report with nurses doctors
and fantastic medical staff of them at their wit's end saying we cannot cope with this we've got
people waiting in corridors for hours because we have nowhere to put them and yet never do you see
in any of these reports this correlation with this explosion in population growth as i say 538 000
uk population growth the last set of figures the highest for 70 years and no one makes that correlation
naja ferrage there to do it naja ferrage pointed this out this fact that if you have this rapidly
expanding population it pushes your health system to the limit and yet no one in this country is
talking about it no one wants to deal with it and we see as i say report after report with nurses
doctors and all the rest of it saying i work clothes becoming completely utterly ridiculous we
cannot handle this many people we have too many patients yeah because the population surging
fueled by a mass migration boom that no one wants to talk about no one wants to control and even
after voting for brexit we're not seeing politicians we're not seeing the government saying we're
going to bring down numbers at this time and this is how we're going to do it there is no plan to
do that and again i sense that there's massive dissatisfaction and growing anger at the lack of
action controlling britain's borders and bringing these numbers down to sensible levels i mean i
had conversations with leftists and i asked them did you love you love and support the nhs right
yeah of course and you also support mass uncontrolled immigration and population growth that's
never going to end yeah i support that as well no you can't have both you can't have your cake
and eat it it doesn't work it's collapsing i want to move on to the uh trump visit of course
the corbin corn driven narrative michael is that most brits don't want to see donald trump visit
the uk we've seen a lot of throth frothing and whining about this over the past few months of
course we've had calls to outright ban him from the uk some of which are being supported by councils
in london does that paint an accurate picture of exactly what the people of the uk think about
trump's potential visit well no we've seen new figures out today that show there's been a 14
per cent surge since december and the amount of people in britain that want to see a state visit
from trump the amazing paradox to me paul is that you have barack obama who came to britain let's
not forget before the brexit referendum and basically said if you guys dare dare to vote for
your country's independence you better know you're going to be back at the queue for a trade deal and
then you have president trump who couldn't be further from that who sits down with the british
prime minister recently and said uh we want to massively increase trade we want to bump the trade
deal we want to create jobs jobs jobs and yet you have idiots in this country who turn around so we
couldn't possibly have the u.s president it's an amazing paradox but no i think opinion is changing
very very quickly i think a lot of the media scrutiny of trump is way over the top here you
talk about things like the dowell jones i mean that's virtually under reported the things that
have gone on the massive economic boom that's on its way in america's virtually under reported
and i think what an amazing prospect it is for brexit britain to have such a strong
ally so openly welcoming of increasing trade uh and and all the rest of it between our two
countries to create jobs i think it's a marvelous thing and i think the european union should be
a little bit worried because some of trump's comments about what he thinks of them aren't
too flattering don't think trump's a fan of the protectionist globalist european union
well exactly i mean when it comes to trump's visit i mean you gotta ask the question at some point
is sadeek karn and his ilk by constantly banging on about how they want to ban trump at what point
are they harming the national interest i mean that's the question that i often ask myself but
we got a couple of minutes left michael just tell people where they can find you on twitter and
about westmonster.com yeah so i'm at uh michael underscore here on twitter it's westmonster.com
little plan words there from westminster here in london where the politicians and laws and the
rest of the establishment hang out where we're trying to challenge that a bit with west monster
and basically you're going to be seeing a lot of more video content and things like that coming up
from us we're basically trying to highlight things guys so many things in britain get under
reported did you know if i'm quick new years uh four young men stabbed to death in four separate
incidents it came and went it was virtually forgotten in a couple of weeks and we've seen
these stabbings we've seen this horrendous surge in violence that's such a scourge that's killing
young men uh at such a rapid rate we're seeing brexit being sold out we're seeing uh things
like illegal immigration that's becoming an absolute nightmare because we've got open borders
we are west monster highlighting all of the these things i'm highlighting all these things
that we've got big momentum uh here in britain and i think people are sick and tired of the
establishment brexit shows that trump's showing that and uh paul your numbers and info will show
that as well indeed they do quick prediction uh give me a yes or no is tereza may going to be the
leader of the conservative party at the next election is she still going to be in power
nope don't think so i hope that i hope that prediction comes to fruition and that we get
um an omrash of mog mentum which is what looks like it's taking hold right now
michael heaver thanks for joining us the website is west monster dot com thanks again there goes
michael heaver that's going to wrap up the show war room with owin shroyer is coming up right now
breaking news at info wars dot com as the down closes it was up about five hundred and eighty
two points last time i checked owin will pick it up over on the war room info wars dot com thanks
for your maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality we're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality our ultimate
non-gmo formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world
and then concentrated from maximum potency super male vitality was developed to activate
your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals info wars life wants to bring
you the highest quality products our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist
the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males support your body and
mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality and energize your life take control
of your body grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info wars life dot com that's info wars
life dot com please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when
you choose autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info warsore dot com number
two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for autoship because we
hold back a surplus for autoship customers number three we're giving you free shipping on all orders
above $50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month just go to info wars store dot com select your favorite
product or products click on autoship and choose how often you want us to send you another order
as you know i coined the term 360 win and with the new autoship feature at info wars life dot com
this is a sure win 10 off on autoship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on
orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for autoship
you're listening to the alex jones show
