Alex Jones, the cure to fake news, coming to you live from Austin, Texas.
Ladies and gentlemen, wow, this Thursday, the 8th day of February 2018 is picking off
with a bang.
The Dow Jones industrial average is 450 plus points down as we speak and so much more is
also unfolding on the economic front as the globalists go into absolute complete and total
high gear trying to shut this economy down.
We've also got fake news alert, the stories on newswars.com and as soon as I read it,
I just asked Kit, one of the editors to change the headlines, it's not strong enough.
It's fake news, MSM, Trump and influx of Russians attend national prayer breakfast, CNN singles
out 60 Russians out of 3,800 people.
But then we looked at who was there leading the delegation of Russians.
It's the woman funded by George Soros on record, the Russian playboy model, who is funded by
Soros and is running against Putin.
So that's next level.
Soros funded group and they admit of the prominent people there, they're all anti-Putin and anti-Trump.
They then show up and the media doesn't even tell people that, oh, by the way, this is
the opposition to Putin.
That's how stupid they think you are.
So I said, change the headline to fake news, Soros funded Russians attend prayer breakfast
to embarrass the president and don't report, that's the sub-headline, and failed to report
that the prominent Russians that reportedly were going are anti-Putin, running against
Putin.
You cannot make that level of deception up.
It's just only happens in the real world, truth is strange than fiction.
Now that said, I knew when I saw this a few days ago when Trump said he wants a military
parade to honor a military, that he was baiting the military, not the military, that he was
baiting the leftists and the globalists to then show their real colors and attack the
military, just like whenever he goes after the NFL for not kneeling, they show their
true colors.
He's totally and completely trolled them in a massive, massive, massive way.
But then I remembered, I said, didn't Drudge call for a military parade?
And then this morning I saw the headlines where they had pointed that out, Matt Drudge
last year on May 9th said, Trump needs a military parade like in Russia.
We haven't had it since 1991.
And the whole point is we're supposed to be ashamed of the military, we're supposed
to hate the military.
I'm not saying worship the military, but if the globalists are trying to demoralize
our country, make us hate our military, hate our police, hate our local governments, which
is admittedly in the WikiLeaks, so they can come in with their leftist overthrow, and
then you'll really have a military problem with leftists controlling it, it'll be in
your streets.
It's incredible.
I mean, I wrote the book in Modern History on being concerned about the military being
used for domestic control because the military alerted me to it that Clinton and Obama and
others were trying to massively gear up to use them against gun owners and others.
The media spun it that I was anti-U.S. military.
When it couldn't be further from the truth, I was against our military being taken control
of by bad folks.
So they're trying to kill nationalism, they're trying to kill spree decor, they're trying
to kill any type of national honor or pride.
The Night Circuit rules, you can't wear American flags in California schools, it's a hate symbol.
The answer is do what they don't like.
Go back to that other end, you're nowhere near the extreme of some right-wing military
dictatorship like they're now saying.
And when we come back to Yenneman Square, ladies and gentlemen, Democrats are saying
if there is a military parade, they're going to lay out in front of the tanks and trucks
and men and women like they're fighting a communist regime.
No, in Yenneman Square, again, the people were fighting a communist regime.
You are the communist and the global is fighting an American free market regime.
So, it's all coming up on this big Thursday global transmission.
We're going to have wide open phones, we're going to watch the stock market and play clips
from Trump's Big Prayer Breakfast and more.
I'm Alex Jones.
We're in Information War.
Just spread all the links and live feeds to the four wins.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Get it to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now, that's InfoWarsLife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is Thursday, the 8th day of February 2018.
I'm your host Alex Jones, member June 5th, 1989.
The Communist News Network covered the Communist Chinese government crushing a student peaceful
uprising calling for free speech and calling for free market reforms and religious freedom
in China where peaceful Christians and Buddhists are held in captivity by the millions and
their organs sold.
For simply calling for that to stop, thousands were machine gunned and run over with tanks.
We can pull up some of that graphic footage, but I think I'll spare the viewers and listeners.
Two days ago, President Trump came out and announced that he was going to call for a
military parade.
That's why they really hate Trump because Matt Drudge had that idea, last year pushed
it, and I know for a fact that's what made Trump even think of it.
And see, it's the access that the people have.
If you get a letter to Trump or if he reads something on Drudge or InfoWars and he thinks
it makes sense, he'll look into it and he'll do it.
Just like he learned from InfoWars that Sheriff Joe was under indictment and then had been
convicted by a judge alone and was going to prison, he made some phone calls, couldn't
believe it.
He said, why hasn't that been on Fox?
He found out it was true and he did it.
And the White House admitted, yeah, they got the information from Dr. Jerome Corsi who
hand-deliberated the White House and got it through to the president.
They hate that type of access, you see, because normally it's big globalist boards.
It's big globalist boards that decide everything and then it's given in policy and those boards
are all in control.
Those multinationals hand down the directive, the think tanks come up with how to deploy
the policy, it then goes back to the boards and then back to the think tanks to be codified
and put out in reports.
And then those reports are adopted as the global system, policy.
With Trump, it's what makes sense.
An old lady hands him a news clipping in a line taking photos or he gets a news article
from alternative news, checks into it, finds out it's true.
He does something.
He's real.
He's not an elitist.
And that's what they hate.
Now why did I start the broadcast with Tiananmen Square?
The left on CNN, I know it's been mentioned in the Washington Post, I've seen video
clips by leftist activists online, one of them is on infowars.com are saying, we're
going to lay out like Tiananmen Square in front of the tanks.
Well, number one, those were students fighting communist and globalist and elitist.
That's what you're supporting.
So the students died and got run over a machine gun to be able to demonstrate peacefully in
the supposed people's square.
I mean, you notice nobody's in that square now and those tanks came in because they'd
kill you if you were.
There's a famous image of the man standing in front of the tank.
But as soon as nightfall fell, those were local tanks that knew the locals.
They had brought people in from a province 800 miles away and it took them time to get
down there.
And boy, when they got there early that next morning, when the first trucks got there,
they started machine gunning everybody and they climbed in those tanks that the locals
wouldn't drive over people and they ran over whole families.
You go watch the raw footage on YouTube, you got a stomach for it.
So now they're saying they've got at least 13 people signed up to lay in front of tanks.
So A, these were people protesting peacefully, a murderous communist regime.
And now you're communist in America protesting a parade for the military.
Our military isn't coming to conquer us and run us over in the streets.
If we had one of these parades, it's to provoke you and show how anti-American you are and
how much you hate this country and how much you hate the military.
So A, you're being chumped by Trump.
You don't think the ultimate troll for goodness.
Trump didn't know you're going to have convulsions over a military parade and we're going to
have it and you rats are going to go out there.
No need to stage a false flag.
You'll probably bomb it.
Not this particular urn, merconey, but others.
We're leftist and anti-fire calling for violence, calling for shooting cops, CNN said when cops
are getting killed, they said, well, they better clean their act up.
They deserve it.
And of course, even Politico now understands and admits it's political genius that he has
trolled them massively.
And you've got all these college dwellers, all these lazy, stupid, foppish, sycophantic,
debutted pseudo-intellectuals sitting in the midst of this big rotting free market bizarre
that they're trying to completely destroy so they can live like they do in Venezuela.
I hear it's a nice time in Venezuela right now.
So imagine the leftists are saying, don't have your parade.
You can't have it.
CNN, MSNBC are saying it's horrible.
It's fascism.
Oh, he's like North Korea.
And oh, this is a show of force, a force of domination.
We need to oppose it.
But meanwhile, when I tried to get into the inauguration for three hours, we couldn't
get in.
They were beating up men, women, and children.
The anti-fud and the Black Lives Matter who were about 99% white, by the way, I'm just
telling you that's the fact, but they weren't at the VIP area.
Oh, you could get in real easy there.
So I just also go to the VIP area, even though it's on the other end.
And then CNN said nobody was there because it took hours to get in because they blocked
the entrances.
And they showed that image saying nobody's there.
Again, that's the total deception, but once people got in, it was a record crowd.
Everything is a lie with these people.
In Tiananmen Square, the people were opposing communism, authoritarianism.
Trump isn't going to have his parade to occupy cities.
It's a parade to honor the veterans, their families, those that have fallen, those that
have been wounded, those that have been maimed, those that have been disabled.
It's about Americanism and nationalism.
We, the people, are taking back control of our country from the globalists, from the
multinational authoritarianism.
But then you see the top of people that block and spit on our reporters and attack me and
everything else in New York at the women's marches a few weeks ago and at other events.
Let's roll some of that, either as B-roll or with audio if it's bleeped.
Of these folks, how they act, they can have their parades and nobody stops them.
Women dressed up as giant vaginas simulating sex acts on each other in front of children.
That's on screen right now, your TV viewer.
This is going on, but oh, we can't have the military parade because people like this are
going to come block it and then spit on everybody and run around like a bunch of miscreants.
It's a celebration of being idiots.
It's a celebration of being morons.
It's a celebration of being fools.
And everything they claim they oppose is what they are, cussing and spitting and yelling
at our female and male reporters, physically attacking them, acting completely mentally
ill, not as a small group of the overall group, full grown men running over and sticking their
butts in the face of mentally and farting into the microphone in front of their wives.
It's all about infantile behavior, arrested development, people living in this big open
free system and then using that against it and then hating the very thing like mentally
ill toddlers that have taken a huge dose of PCP.
So here's activist Arne Merconi calls for people to lay in front of tanks as if they're
Tiananmen Square, as if they have the same courage because the tanks are coming to kill
them and the trucks are coming with the soldiers with the rifles.
No, you're coming to block our free speech just like the Chinese Communist tankers were.
You are the people in the tanks and our tanks and our military is to stop you when you have
your violent uprisings and try to enslave us.
Let's play that clip.
This has become an authoritarian state and we need a grassroots effort today.
If you can see what I've been posting over the last few hours is that journalists, politicians
and anti-war movement groups are starting to build up the worrying, build up the story,
build up the tension.
We have to turn this into a three day story and what I want people to do is to commit
just like I will that we would go to Washington DC if such a crazy insane act occurred and
we would lay down in front of the tanks just like the heroes and the courageous students
did in China in 1989.
They need to hear our voices.
This isn't clickbait for the media, this is something that the tanks were coming to stop
free speech.
You're trying to block free speech.
The tanks aren't coming to conquer.
It's a parade.
You're not just like the people in Tiananmen Square.
You're just like the Communist that ordered those tanks out and of course that's the stuff
you promote at the universities.
You are the problem.
You are the cancer.
You are the enemy.
You will be defeated.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier
I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online
at hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Polistic treatments may be eligible for sharing, see guidelines, discount programs available
for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Infowars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now at
infowarslife.com or by calling toll free, triple A 253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Rallying Patriots Worldwide in Defense of Human Liberty.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Zanya Sobchak is the Russian playboy model who's running for president against Putin
and she reportedly attended the prayer breakfast we're going to play some excerpts of in the
next segment.
And they said, oh look, there's Russians everywhere because Trump's a Russian.
And then you read the prominent Russians that came, they're all a bunch of Soros open society
funded people where they've spent billions of dollars in the State Department and Soros
money that he swindled from different countries manipulating currency to try to overthrow Russia.
But if you're literate about who's who, it's incredible.
But if you turn on ABC or CBS or NBC yesterday and today, it's done, done, done.
There's a whole bunch of Russians at the event.
What's going on?
Thoughts you're not working with Russians.
But then right next to it, the same publications like Newsweek, they'll admit that Trump's
opposition, excuse me, Putin's opposition, but also against Trump, they don't want peace.
The Soros lady is going to the breakfast and did go to the breakfast TV presenter known
as the Russian Paris Hilton and Putin's presidential rival has been invited to Trump's national
prayer breakfast.
And reportedly she attended.
So again, they previously admitted who she was.
They still admit she's the opposition that others are opposition, but they still run
with headlines saying, whoa, a lot of eyebrows getting raised, a lot of Russians.
This is the stunt they pull.
And then you see the left foaming at the mouth saying they're going to attack the veterans
parade that President Trump has announced that they're going to lie down in front of
the tanks because they're heroes like the people in Tiananmen Square.
When again, the people in Tiananmen Square were fighting communism peacefully saying we're
not allowed to demonstrate.
We are going to demonstrate.
It was a student peaceful demonstration that ended in thousands and thousands killed in
thousands and thousands then arrested and sent to prison or executed fighting leftist
anti free speech authoritarianism.
It is the left at college campuses across this country that first started banning words
like the N word out of literature that was actually against racism and then moved on
now to Martin Luther King because he said all God's children black, white, yellow, red
and brown.
They said, well, where's the trends?
Where's the you've got to remove Martin Luther King's speech off the wall?
Oh, we don't want masculine images of the football team in the sports, athletic mural.
Take that down because it shows masculine men, toxic masculinity and it shows toxic femininity
as they call it the stereotypes of a woman with full breast, small waist, full hips.
They're assaulting classical feminism.
They're assaulting classical male prowess.
All of this is about these movements taking control of every subgroup and every strata
and then dictating what it is to be a man or a woman.
And I know I said yesterday that I would get to this and I will get to it at the bottom
of the next hour breaking down.
We've decoded exactly what this whole program is about and it's the end of human biology
and they are now going into high gear basically admitting this entire program.
That's what's so interesting now is they're admitting the plan going, transgenderism is
going to make us have less kids.
Well, that's always been the plan.
I know the runoff in the water is good.
It's making us have less kids.
It is a directed program.
There it is.
College wants to censor Martin Luther King.
I have a dream speech.
Here's why.
Yeah, they're taking down his murals or taking down his speeches or taking down quotes off
the walls.
It's happening everywhere.
This hall is called Lynch Hall.
We want that name taken off.
It's scary because it reminds us of lynching.
Total mental illness.
And then they do change the name of it.
Not because the schools are scared.
They're the ones creating the mental illness.
They're the ones creating the war on language, the war on debate, the war on free speech,
the war on ideas.
And so think about this again.
You've got leftist on CNN, MSNBC, everywhere saying Trump's an authoritarian for wanting
to have a military parade or Trump's a North Korean or Trump's a fascist.
Now you've got Democrats coming out saying, no, we're going to be heroes and go attack
it and block the tanks.
When it's not tanks coming to crush people's free speech at the university that was off
of Tiananmen Square like the Communist did, it's a celebration for those that have fought
and those that have died.
They also show once a year V-Day parades.
What is it?
May 9th in Russia?
For the 20 million Russians that died, but 20-something percent or more of their population in World
War II, 22 million Germans died.
That was well over a third of their population.
And they show every year Putin having the Victory Day, May 9th.
They show it and go, look, he's got a parade threatening us, Putin's got a parade threatening
us when the French and the Mexicans and the South Africans, everybody else has military
parades.
People have parades for the police, they have them for fire departments, they have them
to raise money for little kids, they have them for everything.
Having a military doesn't make you fascist or communist.
Having a fascist or communist government makes you that.
It's like saying if we have police, they're all bad because police are corrupt in some
areas of Latin America or Asia or Africa.
So in Russia, it's called the Patriotic War and almost everybody lost family or large
parts of their family or whole families.
And so most people living have grandparents or great grandparents that were killed in
the war.
So it's called the Great Patriotic War because Russia did 90 percent of the fighting in World
War II.
It was all the way from the Marines and the U.S. took care of the Pacific and what happened
in Europe.
But the 90 percent of fighting the Nazis was the Russians.
That was the big war in Russia.
That's where almost all the Germans died.
You can look it up.
That's where almost all the Russians died.
Was in Russia and in Germany.
That's where the big fighting happened.
Yes, the U.S. and England drove the Russians out of North Africa.
My dad's dad was part of that and it was heavy fighting going into Italy.
Heavy fighting.
It was 600,000 something U.S. I'm going from memory died.
Big war.
Not as big as our civil war.
That killed millions.
But for Russia, it's 20 plus times the number of troops lost that we lost.
So our media then, I'm not defending Russia, I'm defending the truth.
That's what Victory Day is, not what our media says.
It shows how it's all lies.
They send the lady running against Putin.
They send the lady running against Putin.
To the prayer breakfast to say, look, he's a Russian, Trump's a Russian because he's
got people there.
This is the deception.
This is the manipulation.
And now the very universities that are bringing in Soviet style or communist Chinese style
censorship and bans on free speech saying no demonstrations for conservatives and no
white day at the school and kicking the professors out and true malice like stuff, they're the
ones coming like Tiananmen Square and shutting down the free speech in the square.
And now they take a communist event like Tiananmen Square and conflate it and project it onto
Trump if he has a parade or if Russia has a parade when it's the very people that love
Tiananmen Square and the crushing of free speech, the American left that are allied
with the communist Chinese that are engaging in this entire operation.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Faketv.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, DanPilla.com.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that
if you want proven studies and documentation, let me speak for hours, this is on the files
I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, anytime of the year.
But immune wall is incredible at folks.
Other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate a citrus peel blend, I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Beta-glucan, olive leaf, and more.
Immune wall, m4warsstore.com, m4warslive.com, or triple-82533139.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from m4warsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at m4warsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, m4warslive.com, or triple-82533139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and
their satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they
are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
I want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at m4warsstore.com.
And this is basically a product that I've been taking anyway before we even launched
our own version of it.
Now, the product is Body's Whole Body Support.
This is available right now at a massive 50% discount at m4warsstore.com.
It's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market.
It's got the black pepper, which makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Now, we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically
proven to have, so I've just got this fresh today, literally the seal's not even being
opened on it.
It's just $29.95, again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules in this bottle.
It is Body's, the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market, available right
now at m4warsstore.com, get it today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from them4wars.com studios.
It just hit me today like a ton of bricks, hit me so hard.
I was thinking about the hypocrisy of leftists in this country with antifa hitting people
and they had with bike locks, stabbing people, bombing things, attacking their cars, spitting
on my reporters, dumping coffee on my head, CNN having them on saying violence is good,
against the right wing.
It just hit me that they are like the communist Chinese at Tiananmen Square in 1989.
When they go out and engage in violence to stop our free speech, anytime libertarians,
conservatives, Trump supporters, you name it, try to have an event, antifa even comes
out with AK-47s in Austin and won't let my reporters on the Capitol grounds to be able
to cover a woman who was killed by an illegal alien and the illegal alien gets off.
We go to a vigil and they are attacking men, women, and children and pushing them and hitting
them and not letting them get into the event and the police stand there and look on while
the left intimidate and antifa calls for killing cops and cops are getting shot in the back.
All this weatherman style tactic and then they've got the nerve to have professors and
leftist activists on CNN, MSNBC, we played clips of some of them earlier saying Trump's
a fascist, lay in front of the tanks if he has a military parade.
When it was the communist Chinese coming in to the university that's right there, their
biggest university in China, right off Tiananmen Square, it was the student groups wanting
free speech, wanting to be like America, wanting to have free market, wanting to have religious
freedom and they got run over, they got killed, they got massacred.
Once the sun went down and we all know that and the left is doing that on a micro level
all over the country everywhere and they're doing it all over the country to our free
speech and then they set up and say we're going to block a military parade tanks, implying
tanks are coming to kill them when it's honoring the veterans that have fought and been wounded
and died and their families that have given up so much.
They're the ones again trying to keep us from going into the inauguration.
They're the ones attacking families, they're the ones spitting on us, they're the ones
hitting us, they're the ones attacking women and just dragging them off into mobs to be
physically have seven or eight bones broken and stopping rallies and stopping free speech
and stopping Milo from speaking and stopping Ann Coulter and trying to stop me from speaking
and trying to stop Mike Cernovich.
They are flaming out of control evil authoritarians, stopping free speech just like in Tiananmen
Square and doing it with force and beating people up.
We're showing some of the footage here this is nothing compared to the footage I mean
the bike locks and the women being dragged off and women being beaten over the head
with Mexican flags and you have blood coming out of people's heads all of it we've seen
it and then they've got the nerve to say we're the ones like Tiananmen Square, we're the
ones who are going to face down tanks as if the tanks are coming to kill them and we
have a parade and then they're going to be the ones blocking other people's speech and
then saying they're heroes like Tiananmen Square standing up for speech when the left
are the ones calling for violence and carrying it out everywhere they now have 50 people
just by this one academic individual, Arne Mcconnie to carry this out it's unbelievable
and the media is so distorted the public say that just like Tiananmen Square they're in
front of the tanks when again the Tiananmen Square they were coming to crush the free
speech you're the ones getting in front of the free speech blocking it because you can't
stand to see people have public events you don't control you are like the communist Chinese
and guess what you're allied with them and guess what the weathermen say they say they
wanted communist Chinese style takeover in this country they say they want that event
they say they want that to unfold and again we're just showing when they did block the
tanks during the day you can type into the search engine if you want to see the massacre
at Tiananmen Square massacre footage night time footage tanks just running over a bunch
of people shooting people men women and children dad all over the place and then some little
effeminate thug with his little high tech capitalist computer watch in his little sports jersey
can sit there and direct everyone to be heroes like Tiananmen when he is the tanks at Tiananmen
coming to crush the free speech he is the tanks of Soros and the leftists coming to
stop our military parade to honor our veterans and the fact that we let scum like this do
that is on us and you can see it when they have the parade the news will be heroes like
Tiananmen when they're the leftist they back to communist Chinese they're banning free
speech at the colleges everywhere they are exactly what they say they're opposing another
leftist dirt ball telling us that they are out there standing up against authoritarianism
when they are what they're supposedly opposing it's sick isn't it how immoral and how distorted
and how twisted and how upside down and how deceptive but do you think this this this
guy has pronounced his name do you think he is even conscious enough or self aware enough
to know what a contradiction he is get him off the screen I can't look at it anymore
he goes we will be like the people you know since I played him so much let's let's play
his whole statement here so you can actually hear it from his own disgusting mouth how
he wants to stop our free speech and then he'll be like a hero like the people of Tiananmen
Square standing up for free speech and being killed this is becoming or an author authoritarian
state and we need a grassroots effort today if you can see what I've been posting over
the last few hours is that journalist politicians and anti-war movement groups are starting to
build up the the the the worrying build up the story build up the tension we have to turn
this into a three day story and what I want people to do is to commit just like I will
that we would go to Washington DC if such a crazy insane act occurred and we would lay
down in front of the tanks just like the heroes and the courageous students did in China in
1989 they need to hear our voices this isn't clickbait for the media this isn't something
that the big shots do this is something that you and I can do now I've been watching some
of the comments under my feet some people say oh I don't have the money to do it oh
I can't do this how are we going to get there commit commit I've never figured out how I'm
going to get there who I'm going to get there it's out of what I believe in and I do not
believe that we live in a military authoritarian state to that level you guys are the ones
going around trying to get everybody's free speech and saying lock people up you're the
ones trying to get rid of the English language you're the ones trying to destroy our sovereignty
oh commit and put your body down like a tank's going to run over you in America so you can
like live action role play your heroes instead of playing Dungeons and Dragons out in the
field hitting each other rubber swords you'll show up and listing soy boy and drink some
soy and go lay down and get arrested and go oh fascism fascism because you're blocking
somebody else's free speech nobody's taking your speech you can go have your communist
rallies all day I've been there when you're beating up the women when they're going after
the children I've been there when the left all over this country tries to block my speech
I've never seen conservatives do it our libertarians are patriots you people are the threat you're
the authoritarian you're the dirt bags with your failed socialist crap with your sugar
daddy George Soros a real Nazi collaborator we show some footage I'll be the women at
Berkeley when they hit him and grab them they dragged the woman like into a mob of people
and she just disappears poorly broke seven bones and just beat her and beat her and beat
her and beat her and beat her and beat her she was just walking up to hear somebody speak
and they said you heard her you heard her my lo they said yeah they went rah rah rah
ride her into a big crowd but see those are the heroes they're the heroes they're the
heroes they beat up women and beat them over the head and punch them in the nose and everything
else they're the heroes fighting fascism much of meth had trash we'll be back to Intel
straight ahead climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by info wars life for
those who want to increase testosterone and energy levels most men know that testosterone
levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of about 1 to 2 percent per year
this drop can show signs such as fatigue low energy low sex drive and muscle loss alpha
power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market
the secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms including uricoma longifolia originally from Malaysia makaroo
from Peru horny goatweed from china and tribulus from india reach your alpha male potential
with alpha power get alpha power now at 50 percent off and secure your bottle today top
scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water
supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new supercharged brain force
plus and fill the rest without the crash brain force plus is the next generation of advanced
neural activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black
pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin b12
and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and
supercharge your state of mind it's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right
now at info or store dot com info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in France noticed
that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experience less seasonal distress
symptoms like running nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production they began
studying the effects in public trials in their public trials now we are introducing the fruit
of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet just two two tablets at the first sign of
seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes help alleviate
seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available
now at info wars life dot com by calling till three triple eight two five three three one
three nine I'm very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars
biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal
function our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be
the leading probiotic on the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular
strength at info wars life dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system
naturally we've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first round
of the public so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support
the info war you're listening to the alex jones show
raging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info
war think about how smart trump is but think about how smart matt drudge is i mean matt
drudge there's all sorts of stuff i've learned behind the scenes kind of matchmaking different
things a different talk show host for different events different different explosive ideas
for the good and it was matt drudge as i did have a military parade haven't had one in
18 years it'll trigger the leftist and i know for a fact that's been pushed in the white
house directly from drudge and now trumps announcing it and the left flips out and says you're
an authoritarian like north korea but then they say don't criticize north korea it's
not bad if north korea has a corrupt military that doesn't make us bad and we're taking
back control of our country the military under leftist control they've been preparing them
for gun confiscation we knew about all that because the military would always give me
the documents they'd give them to the nr a and stuff 10 15 20 years ago and people couldn't
believe in the nr the nr a did not want to be that political they would just sit on it
more and more we would get the documents out of the marine corps out of the army how do
you think we knew how to be at all those places some of them secret operations and the media
would spend it jones hates the military no i hate globalists getting control of it because
that's how authoritarianism takes place tyranny will come to your door in a uniform free societies
also have military and police and they're always going to have problems because people
have problems and we're all failed fallen people at one level but if you let corruption
take hold and you organize it over the people it's called the t word tyranny and so i am
so excited because just like hey you shouldn't take a neater in the national anthem that's
disrespectful oh it's my free speech and great people don't go to your football game and
that was a fight they have with the president they lost a fight they have with america they
lost and so trump knows america is under attack he knows the family's under attack he knows
globalism is demoralizing us so he has to invoke our nationalism to show how they want
to get rid of the borders like trump said sure we'll legalize the dreamers they can
prove they're not criminals they went no no fascist we want totally open borders no borders
and all people's be able to come here that was two weeks ago and suddenly folks even
in mainline polls go well trumps being reasonable you're not being reasonable also when he came
out and said that he'd always said that during the campaign the media misrepresented it
so when he said they went oh look you're lying you said to port all mexicans they're all evil
really show me the videotape show me the audio it doesn't exist it's a lie so see it is credits
that lie and it's credits the other lie that they're not being reasonable that of course
if you've been deported five times and been convicted of rape you are gonna be deported
we're not gonna make you a dreamer that's total common sense but see it's a cult the
globalist want to break our borders that's why it's a crime in germany or sweden or other
areas i have stacks of news today where they rape people they kill people and the media
is told do not report it was a muslim invader don't even report it was a migrant first call
them refugees then migrants then don't call them muslim then don't say who they are at
all they fought for days to cover up that was an illegal alien deported two times before
that killed that linebacker for the cults over the weekend we're fighting just for our
ability to have speech and talk about what's going on and so trump invokes this to go we're
gonna have a military parade to honor our veterans and the fallen and their families
boy you can't have that we can have the illegal aliens march we can have all the liberal marches
nobody tries to stop those but anybody else tries to march here comes the left to beat
you up and the cops stand by and if you raise a hand to fight back you're arrested in blue
cities as fast as you can snap your fingers and the cops say we're sorry we've been ordered
to stand down on video that's how these cowards operate a hundred to one with police protection
in blue cities you imagine all of america being under this where they can beat up and
attack anybody they want we've got leftist brutality beyond anything you see with bad
apple cops i've experienced i've been punched and hit and spit on and attacked with coffee
and i'm a pretty big guy i i almost tell million and people the reporters don't go out they
don't know we're going out then they make tv shows where it's info wars is the name of
the show a reporter like millie gets drug off and raped and then the jury lets her go
let's them go said she deserves to be raped that's law and order last week their message
is we're gonna hurt you we're gonna attack you and we're gonna let you go these juries
in these in these in these swamp cities like dc and la and san francisco we're gonna lay
lay lay lay and shoot women in the back say they didn't get away with it we're gonna have
simulated rapes of women and hope that actually starts she deserved to have be gang raped
by a line of men this this info wars reporter on the show the name of the shows info wars
it's set in a fictional uh city like what happened in charlottesville it's a millie weaver
reporter saying the stuff info war says word for word even makes sense what she's saying
and she gets raped and thrown in a trash can thrown in a dumpster with blood all over
and the jury said and so it's it's about wimps being able to come out and attack and have
their day in seattle in san francisco in austin and no it's their day of cowardice their day
to bully their day to attack their day to be vicious their day to hurt speech their time
to hurt their time their time to simulate war coming up i'm gonna play prayer breakfast
clips and a bunch of other amazing clips that i haven't even gotten to the over the top chris
come on jim jordan battle over democrat memo we've got just so much but but just the left
trying to kill our speech and attacking us everywhere and then saying they're like victims
at tanham square when they're gonna go try to block a veterans parade when they're the
ones blocking free speech again it's just too rich it's a perfect inversion of reality
upside down land i've been calling it upside down land for 20 years and they got these
shows you know like um one on netflix whether it's upside down people go is that is that
from stranger things no that's that's just everybody talks about upside down land that's
what the globalist are it's an inverted dimension that's what satanism is that's what a pentagram
is the pentagram is an upside down pentacle a pentacle symbolizes humans ahead two arms
and two legs the powerful powerful symbol inverting it is about it upside down and them siphoning
the energy off of the inversion because it creates major dark energy major destruction
major the universe is not in order so these weak people go in and go let me flip this
upside down because they're so weak even though they only get a tiny bit of the evil power
that's created by it they still kind of go warming their hands to the fire of evil down
briefly ladies and gentlemen we have launched a new site fortified supply.com and and it's
in full or site they censored us off google ads and everything so i thought you know let's
create a site that we say is a sponsor but it's really us and i thought you know i'm
not going to do that even though it's it's it's true that it'd be a sponsor if it's our
sub company that helps fund the operation it's in full war so they want to try to censor
that when i try to run ads with it again that's fine it's a super fancy high tech shopping
cart and it's got the very best survival goods the very best tactical stuff the very best
privacy and security stockpile air and water filters bug out bags and we're going to add
always the best selling supplements there every week we're going to have top sales there
are super high quality true way absolutely concentrated high quality no preservatives
is 50% off at info wars store.com only every once in a while right now it is at fortified
supply.com bodies the water filtration systems from probe pure alexa pure they're all there
on our new shopping cart again because they're always trying to shut us down so we're setting
up more systems info or store.com is excellent high tech and great but there's different
styles of these things so info or store.com is one style with one array of patriot points
and free shipping on order $50 or more and 10% we sign for auto ships got a lot of little
cool you know high end functions that work great highest level security fortified supplies
got a lot of the other cool ways to shop and other little free goodies and things and so
whether it's citizen armor fortified supply harvest right probe pure Tennessee arms Kato
shortwave radios alexa pure combat one defender and hundreds of other new items we're going
to have a lot of new gear next week being announced on the site fortified supply.com and it really
is a first rate site looks great navigates great works great and it's going to just be
a whole new area the left some crossover about 10% they'll have a lot of items that aren't
info or store.com there so adventure is calling get the gear that helps you survive and you
know we've been added to the Google lawsuit over them blocking free speech and blocking
ours and we're behind the scenes involved in a lot of stuff I told you lawsuits were
coming and but we are obviously going to now take this site and have it refused if they
do and I've got a suit we've already had Google banners from their own shopping cart
saying I criticized Obama and that's racist so they banned us from having a Google shopping
cart five years ago so we've already got a lot of lawsuits we have to stand up for everybody's
free speech but the biggest way you do is buying great products and finding the operation
fortified supply.com every year we spend hundreds of dollars on chocolates jewelry and sappy
cards for Valentine's Day it's time to get a gift that will really make the sparks fly
with the info wars life his and hers pack now at 40% off get our two fan favorite products
super male vitality and super female vitality that help boost vitality and energy for less
you've already taken care of Valentine's Day make sure you and your significant other
have an incredible Valentine's night a perfect excuse to get a gift for them and a gift for
yourself super male vitality and super female vitality combine ancient wisdom and modern
techniques for truly powerful formulas that you know they'll love fuel your body naturally
and celebrate your love today with the info wars life his and hers pack now available
at 40% off at info wars store.com or by calling 888-253-3139 proper B vitamin intake is essential
to keep the body functioning at optimum levels up optimum levels with our modern diets it
can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day up optimum
levels B vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin
B 12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue
depression or memory and lethargy secret 12 up optimal absorption B vitamins help the
body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes B vitamins are
also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system up optimum
levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B 12 intake head to info wars
life dot com support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars
life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show from the front lines of the information
war it's alex jones well there's a lot to talk about there's the president's prayer
breakfast where they sent the lady running against latimer putin to it with some other
russians and the media said look trump's got a bunch of russians as it hit his event
he's a russian man that is just incredible how they've successfully though gotten where
trump won't meet with putin even though he should have already met with him six eight
months ago he's got all the other major g8 leaders it's crazy they have successfully
launched a mccarthyism 50 times bigger and a hundred percent legitimate mccarthy it turned
out from the russian files were classified was dead on but as soon as he said oh there's
rich elites in the u.s. in the state department helping the the the they were helping the
leftist that had colonized russia they were helping the leftist that our globalist elites
had funded 1917 that's in the russian textbooks now that's in major u.s. textbooks as well
like tragedy and hope but tragedy and hope is only for state department officials to
read only a thousand copies were printed because they were confused they're like we fight communism
but we secretly fund it yes it's full spectrum dominance let us explain that to you well
trumps about stopping that and obviously he can't put the brakes to it immediately everything's
too entrenched but knowing how the scam works knowing how the beyond machiavellian system
of funding radical islam to take over other islamic areas destabilize those areas then
use that wave to take the liberties in europe and use that as a pretext of an invade the
middle east full spectrum dominance it's hey i don't have any morals i'm gonna be super
corrupt super evil and i'm gonna wage war against everybody but myself and consolidate
total control and you look at the globalists that run this thing they have horribly unhappy
children they're completely screwed up but their evil is so massive and so big and so
strong and so intense that the average person's blind to it just like we only see in a limited
spectrum of light on the light spectrum well if you can't see something with your eyes
right off spectrum you can't pick up ultra violent radiation you can't pick up hundreds
and hundreds of different types of things in the light spectrum and things that are
outside the light spectrum it doesn't exist for you just like radio waves just like cell
towers it's all here it's all here with us right now and out of sight out of mind and
so they hope that people aren't picking up all this and they think you're too stupid
to ever be aware of it now i went into a whole rant earlier about we just joined us about
the left attacking free speech all over the country like they're the communist chinese
coming into Tiananmen Square to crush the students who want to free speech it's the left crushing
free speech all over campuses beating people up saying no white day or no whites allowed
you know in what at the Missouri university or at evergreen up in washington i mean this
is really going on this isn't pockets and now it's up to 50 people this this academics
got ready to lay down in front of the tanks like like the tanks are coming at the military
parade trumps gonna have to attack them but ran paul has a really good point and he's
right trump needs to bring the troops home from places like afghanistan they are downsizing
the troops in iraq we need to pull out of a bunch of these foreign military bases and
we need to cut those areas that are offensive and they're part of this big globalist empire
that we've been paying for and getting none of the none of the dividends from and we need
to bring a lot of the troops home and then have a parade for say a hundred thousand troops
being brought home from around the world that's only less than a third and and and then celebrate
those are still in combat and then all the rest of it i mean i agree usually the military
parades are you know when world war two is over or when we pull out of iraq in 1991 the
military parade because it's over well i get what trumps doing to have one because we
haven't had one in 18 years to thank our military for what they've done but there needs to be
at least the symbolism and more than token more than tokenism of a substantive number
of troops pulled out of these far flung places where we've got military bases so we all know
really why so cia hit teams can infiltrate locally and kill people you know i've got
some talking points here about caveman from info wars life dot com but instead of going
on those talking points let me just give you what i've experienced personally from all
the wives tales in every culture we know that the bones have the essence we know chicken
noodle soup is great for people that are sick again in every culture this has been reported
because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is but the amount of bone
protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this
is incredible ladies and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your
arteries and your veins whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and
gentlemen is the strongest most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing
find out for yourself today at info wars store dot com what you do for your family
and again i want to thank you all for your support you are funding the information war in 2018
you are listening to an info wars dot com frontline report if you are receiving this
transmission you are the resistance from deep in the heart of fema region six austin texas
transmitting worldwide it's alex jones well we're going to continue to follow the stock market
and what's happening to it today while we are live here on air that is going to be unfolding
it's been as far down as 450 points my computer's perpetually frozen when you guys put that back on
screen for me the dow jones industrial averages from cmbc police thank you uh so you can see
uh right now uh how far down it is 24 272 points so that is 650 uh on the day um 620 it's gyrating
back and forth there uh as we speak so we'll be uh going over all of that today as we watch this
unfold it would have to go down 7800 plus points to erase all of the trump gains we've seen in the
last 14 15 months since he was president elected and president but that said it is still built on a
house of cards because of the very globalist policies we've seen but the real new jobs numbers
the record new startups the thousands of companies coming back including apple that is going to mean
massive new employment for americans but we've been in a race trump expanding the bubble because you
can't just stabilize you have to expand it hope some money gets back to the people before basically
none of it was getting back to the people and then and then hope that we innovate our way out of this
like we've done before and trumps talked about trying to get a lot of the secret technologies
and things that are seen as disruptive technologies uh back back out to the public so i want to
speaking of innovation go to a very important video here that was put together by rob doing
myself elon musk falcon heavy launch and spaceman's secrets decoded or really where did elon muskett
the idea of firing a sports coupe uh coupe uh out into space uh with an astronaut at the wheel
and that video it's a powerful little piece is up on info wars dot com elon musk falcon heavy
launch and spaceman secrets decoded what's next for humanity and again the globalists have decided
to not have a future for of and by humans and so just the idea of humans going back into space
or putting an artifact into space signifies that we believe the next 20 30 40 50 100 years
our technology will advance so much that we're going to catch up with probes launched in the 1960s
and 70s like voyager and others and then we'll catch up to this car probably when elon muskett
is still alive i'd guess by his 80s and that it'll be in a museum maybe on mars or maybe in new york
city or maybe in dubai or maybe in p king or maybe in tokyo or maybe in who knows where mexico city
but i gotta sneak into his vision that my children one day
will be in a museum looking at that car that was launched into deep space a few days ago
and of course no one noticed where this was really from it's from heavy metal
and we show side by side how the idea of something could be envisioned in a 1980s cartoon
an independent film it's a great great film arc typo is now manifest in reality this is a ritual
not an occult ritual but a true ritual of human vision let's go to the report
the decision was made by darpa about 30 years ago to build a future without humans
that silicon life forms were better and that the so-called elite would merge with them bill joy
was the first to warn about this in 1999 after he had a meeting with several hundred top tech
billionaires where they had a consensus to bring in the world government dumb down the population
and exterminate us well along comes elon muskett and of course he's been meeting with trump and
others and he says we're gonna make space travel about humans again and so he launches this huge
space x launch with this heavy booster rocket with this innovative tesla car that's a roadster
with an image of a human or a spaceman an astronaut a cosmonaut one who walks amongst the stars
this idea that humans are only empowered when they realize their potential to explore and to
innovate and to build not to be told that we're yesterday's news and the elites are just telling
us to crawl into a hole and die and that there'll be no real human evolution now there are different
types of evolution there's the eugenics based social Darwinistic evolution that says they can
commit any crime they want and pray on you and your family but then there is real evolution
which is human beings taking control of their own development in fact of all the species on this
planet we are the one species that has taken control of our evolution through the greater good
through our conquest through our ideas through our art through the common knowledge of the people
based sixth sense internet but the globalists come in with hollywood and this whole new order system
and they suppress that and they turn us inward and they give us lots of little diversionary
distractions like modern gladiatorial games and sports and hollywood stars so that instead of
looking at the stars and wanting to have our progeny travel to the stars instead of wanting to
unlock the mysteries of the atom and the universe and really fulfill our destiny to go to the next
level we look at red carpets and hollywood tarts and directors and all these people as if they're
god and as if they are the stars but trump and info wars and you and all of us together with
elon musk are tearing aside that and making nasa and private industry and everything about humans
with a guy and a really kick-ass motorcycle slash race car driver outfit right out of the 1980s heavy
metal because you know there's a hat tip to that even though i haven't seen it rocketing out on the
big blue black highway into the universe into life extension into endless choices into incredible
discovery building a future for humans building a future by humans building a future where we
continue on and exist and don't just make ourselves failures and losers the stars aren't hollywood
the stars are in deep space in the sky and we're all part of it and we're all stars we all orbit
this beautiful star and we're going to experience through our progeny the mysteries of the universe
that god has laid out for us you're a god compared to the best ai they've got and these failed evil
people believe that they can suppress you and dominate you that somehow they can use us as the
master engineers to build a system to make them a god like rick herzl says i don't believe in god
yet fool you were made by god you're an extension of god but because you're cut off from god you
can't experience that and know that you've already arrived but elon musk and this whole launch was
a ritual not satanic not pagan not not even christian but just human whatever we envision
in a cartoon from the 80s is now manifest on the head of a big boost rocket on its way
the universe is waiting for you you simply have to take it in your hands and decide to
have a pro human pro innovation world it's built for humans by humans for humans
so
info wars because there's a war on for your mind we have to realize the true awesomeness of the
middle of the universe that we're actually in rob do and i threw that together yesterday
that said though i gotta add the caveat about elon musk when we come back it's like i have a caveat
about trump's military parade then we're going to get into his uh prayer breakfast and so much
more i'm alex jones with this amazing crew and all our great affiliates we love you all we'll be right
back here's a special message for those of you who owe the irs at least 10 000 or more in back taxes
the irs has special programs in place that could eliminate or reduce your tax debt by thousands
of dollars call the federal tax management helpline that has been set up for you 800 503 86 25 stop the
wage garnishments levies and tax liens now once you've qualified and enrolled the irs will stop
all the collection activities against you these unique programs have been allocated to help the
economy and significantly reduce or eliminate your tax burden the irs is currently accepting
reduced settlements and other favorable programs you may qualify for substantial savings so get
the help you need if you owe more than 10 000 in taxes call for free information and to see if you
qualify take down the number now for the federal tax management hotline 800 503 86 25 that's 800 503
86 25 800 503 86 25 one out of four people listening to my voice right now could die from heart
disease this could be your last year and you don't even know it because you don't know the early
warning signs if you think you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal think again
because studies show that 75 percent of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol
levels let me introduce you to Strauss heart drops a world famous heart and brain formula made in
canada it's time tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your money back learn more
at signs of heart disease dot com they are shipping free this month hawaii was a wake up call don't
be caught without a disaster shelter atlas makes an all disaster shelter that will protect your
family from fallout tornadoes and hurricanes for only 9999 that also includes the nbc air filtration
system solid steel construction with an airtight bulletproof door that's right for 99 99 and i'll
call 1 855 for bunker or go to i want that shelter dot com atlas survival shelters the world leader
in fallout shelters introducing floor life the new probiotic line developed exclusively by info
war's life after years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics are made the same
floor life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and
releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical because stomach acid kills
most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic then you're cheating your gut
health and your wallet floor life supports your body's core where you need it most including
digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you know that over 80 percent of your
immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important
for overall health floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care
and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program head to info wars life
dot com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today that's info wars life dot com
michael zx is back and just like we're game changing when it comes to politics when it
comes to the economy we're game changing on supplements i want to bring you products from
the best research out there from the best labs the best laboratories the best scientists it really
changed lives because i want you to get a great effect i want you to have a great life be healthy
i want you to see the results show you reorder it and tell your friends and family about it
and say a fungus is a scourge molds a scourge and you can't battle it with this in your sinus
or other areas but in your gut the main area you can michael zx available exclusively been out for
over six months at info wars life dot com or by calling toll free triple a 253 through 139 ladies
and gentlemen i only bring you products i use myself i only bring you products that have been
proven to have dynamite effects michael zx is back in stock right now in enforce life dot com
secure yours today
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
boy i tell you this depeche mode luscious song
we want you totally exposes in the context of its words what's happened to the democrats
with the fact that at first they didn't hide the fact that they were illegally spying on the president
in his entire operation when he was a candidate they said oh we've been spying on you we know
you're a russian agent and they went oh we never spied on you once he was president elect and then
once he was president he found out everything in fact he found out on november 17th before he was
even sworn in just a week and a half after he was elected from admiral rogers at the nsa so
trump's known the whole time he doesn't leak stuff to the press like the globalist dude
and and like adam schiff's reportedly has been caught doing over a hundred times
seriously illegal stuff so he just sits there and lets them dig their hole deeper and that's what
they've done and i've had a lot of people asking me alex why aren't you covering the bombshells as
trump called it in a video yesterday of these new text messages and new emails that congress is
releasing almost on a daily basis because we already were told by congress what was in there we
already know we already know what they did we already know they lied we already have enough
evidence to put them in jail 50 times over the the the perjury to congress the perjury to get
the warrants uh the the the insurance policy the secret society uh the money paid by or to his wife
two million dollars she was hired just to write the dossier at fusion gps and then she gets
a large portion of two million dollars from her husband that pulls the trigger i said that back
in december we played the video just yesterday now it's all over the news oh my gosh the big
crime is or giving his wife millions of dollars uh yeah i don't need to see it break to know what i'm
looking at see and i'm not bragging about this it's just it's crazy how they fear info wars
because they know a lot of times i point something out and then somebody else picks it up and something
that no one was looking at now gets looked at that's what they really fear is that i'm an independent
person who studied the law a little bit and i'm not a rocket scientist but i know that if you give
a half million dollars to an fbi agent's wife and that fbi agent is the main one investigating
hillary and then covers up the investigation and tells her she's not an investigation and gives her
a letter and then has a fake investigation and then he's the same one covering up all this other
stuff and then he's the one running for mccabe and comey he's the number three in charge the
entire fake russia gate deal and then his wife gets a half million dollars cash and they won't even
say where it went now i'm not a rocket scientist but i remember three months ago pointing out
one of the crew goes hey this guy's wife ran for was it governorship and got a half million
dollar donation from hillary and so of course they're investigating the clinton foundation
and of course it's coming out they did all this criminal stuff and paper play it was already in
the wiki leaks i mean folks they're in wiki leaks saying we're going to have the alastor
crawly ritual tonight and we've got blood semen and breast milk sir and then podesta asks how fresh
and delicious it is i mean and what did they do they were in deep trouble so they just said oh it's
all a pizza place over here seeing in everybody made everybody look at the pizza place that they
did go to to make it all about that instead of new york and at the cabin there will be the children
in the hot tub for your entertainment they're all experienced and will service you well but
there's still children so they might give you a problem
and you've got quentin tarantino on howard stern saying
the demon roman polanski convicted and ran off for child right here got arrested in europe for it
in jail now you got polanski he says oh that's no big deal that's consensual
you know see the age of consent is 17 to 18 because you can't join the military you can't drink alcohol
because you're a minor your parents have your custody and oh by the way she wasn't consenting
she was drugged for the raping but see that's what even howard stern went man that's disgusting i
got daughters that's pedophilia that roman polanski engaged in but that's what we're dealing with here
is people that are in their own world and think we just exist for their pleasure and their enjoyment
so fbi informant testifies moscow routed millions the clinton foundation in russia
uranium dominant strategy well we know that and that's what's come out and it was 30 something
million dollars just hillary the pedestus it's insane it's next level so we'll we'll get into
all that too coming up it's a big deal but this is the kind of stuff i'm really concerned about
special report u.s body brokers supply world with torsos limbs and heads the jury found that rathburn
defrauded customers shipping parts infected with hiv and hepatitis
unbelievable we're going to get to all of it but briefly because i said i'd do it
tesla is a patriot type company i like elon musk but i don't like how they're going to pioneer
the self-driving cars and just give in to all that when you say you're pro-human and i understand
well that's innovation as long as you know we know what's going on and it's the same thing
with the trump situation i'm all for military parade but he really needs to bring a bunch of
troops home from these useless bases around the world that are bankrupting our country and that
have been serving the globalist but we need to bring a lot of troops home and cut the military
budget for stuff that is purely empire building and ran paul has come out and said that as well
bring us troops home from afghanistan then throw the parade but i understand what trump's doing
triggering the leftist to making them come out and say they're going to attack the parade to show
people the internal enemy and who they really are so i'm just saying he should bring some troops home
from iraq they're coming over my rack now it's been announced almost all of them so i guess that's
probably what trump's got in mind you know we always think hey trump i'll do this and he's
five steps ahead that's already been planned in fact i i bet that's what happens uh but a great
idea matt drudge had a year ago now manifesting before we go any further uh once we introduce you
to our newest product from in full war's life it's ikaran liver and kidney cleanse it's got the strongest
concentrations in it of milk this will extract uh and in acetyl cysteine organic amla fruit and a
bunch of other concentrates organic artichoke leaf many more organic licorice root uh boopolarium
root and so much more and this is documented and known to help get toxins out of your body
but the liver and kidneys can't handle themselves in this toxic environment and you owe it to yourself
it's such an amazing formula and you can do it a couple times a year there's there's more than
enough in the bottle to do it several cleanses for yourself your wife your husband your children
uh and again it's available at info war store dot com info wars life dot com or triple eight two five
three three one three nine oh and almost forgot introductory offer it's 50 percent off 50 percent
off out of the gates from retail at 1995 leading competitors that aren't even as strong are 50
bucks when they're discounted this is an incredible uh trier new turmeric formula as well bodies still
50 percent off but that special is about to end at info wars life dot com it's a no brainer a big
burky water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride
pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right
and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity
water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems
using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's one 87799
b e r k e y hawaii was a wake up call don't be caught without a disaster shelter atlas makes an
all disaster shelter that will protect your family from fallout tornadoes and hurricanes for only
9999 that also includes the nbc air filtration system solid steel construction with an airtight
bulletproof door that's right for 9999 and i'll call what 855 for bunker or go to i want that
shelter dot com atlas survival shelters the world leader in fallout shelters vitamin mineral fusion
visit info wars life dot com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years with our
chemist and scientist to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula
available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month
supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history
of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super
male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing
process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either
plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's
pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars
lives dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out please listen carefully
because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high
quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose autoship before checkout
we give you 10 off on your order at info warshore dot com number two you're also able to get items
that are out of stock when you sign up for autoship because we hold back a surplus for autoship
customers number three we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have
been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need
each month just go to info warshore dot com select your favorite product or products click on autoship
and choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term 360
win and with the new autoship feature at info wars life dot com this is a sure win 10 off on
autoship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all
out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for autoship you deserve a deep restful
sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the
world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep
up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
so
aborted babies incinerated to eat the uk hospitals
silent green ladies and gentlemen is made out of people but now children are literally being
passed through the furnace in order to fuel hospitals in the uk they're being sacrificed on the altar
of efficiency and prosperity what is the secret of silent green the powdered flesh from dead babies
some people believe they can cure disease because of its enormous popularity silent green is in
short supply remember tuesday is silent green day the supply of silent green has been exhausted
you must evacuate the area that the shareholders of pepsico big builder bird group company
are not allowed to know uh what they're using the baby parts for foreign the flavoring but we
already know so enjoy the flavor we're going to get the real solution which is going to be a
combination of death panels and and sales taxes i'm consistently pro-death i'm for assisted suicide
i'm for regular zoas and i'm for whatever gets the freeway moving is spending a million dollars on
that last three months of life for that patient would it be better not to lay off the those 10
teachers and to make that trade-off in medical costs but that's called the death panel uh and
you're not supposed to have that discussion they told me to uh to say that they were sorry
but that you had become unreliable
is this the kind of society that you want to live in any kind of society that would do this to its
children will do it to its senior citizens it will do it to its dissidents that kind of society will
also eventually turn on its police on its army on its prison guards on the quizlings and the
collaborators who make that possible this is nothing but a suicide cult the scoops are on their way
the scoops are on their way i repeat the scoops are on their way you will find out why soylent
green means life you will find out why soylent green means death we got to stop them come out
is soylent green soylent green is people
you
from the front lines of the information ruler
it's alex jones
bitcoin today not crisis economics crisis bitcoin how would you open the book well i
said it's the mother of all bubbles and is also the biggest bubble in human history if you compare
it to say the mccp bubble or the tech bubble or tulip mania or south bubble bitcoin to tulips
much worse if you look at the peak in the bitcoin was an order money to higher than tulip mania
and now has crashed by about 60 percent compared to the peak of mid december has crashed 30 percent
last week and 10 percent today and it's all the way down to zero the fundamental value bitcoin is
zero i was talking with our edward robinson and our team at at crypto folks out on twitter how
did they get this handle at crypto out on twitter is a bloomberg summation of this culture in a vet
the money question today noriel is the crypto people say they can separate the crypto industry
blockchain all the rest of it all everything we saw davos from the value of bitcoin can you separate
crypto from the price decay of bitcoin no first of all there are already something like
1300 plus cryptocurrencies or icos most of them are even worse and don't have any intrinsic value
like bitcoin so if bitcoin is a bubble they're a bit a bubble to the power of two or three
and there's all this hype about blockchain saying okay maybe bitcoin and cryptocurrencies are a
bubble or a fad but blockchain is really a revolutionary industry has been around for 10
years the only application is bitcoin or cryptocurrencies that are a scam and in early days
of the internet people say well in the early days yet you know yet html you have web you have email
you had lots of other things you had millions of applications hundreds of millions using them
after 10 years what they all can offer in the blockchain space nothing just a bunch of cryptocurrencies
that are a scam now i stayed out of bitcoin because i don't get involved in bubbles because
i don't want to hurt my listeners but at the same time the fiat currencies these governments have
are even more corrupt according to robini's own standard i've had robini on before and so you see
this full assault now here's the headlines get ready for most cryptocurrencies to hit zero
goldman's heads wow miniapolis fed president says bitcoin is a toy for collectors bitcoin price
continues to recover after pushing january and fears of crash so it seemed like it was the biggest
thing in the world just a few months ago ecb officials backs bitcoin clamped down well we saw
the clamp down start a few weeks ago that's now caused you to start going down joining us is
roger ver of bitcoin dot com after founding several successful companies in silicon valley roger began
his bitcoin journey in 2011 here's before traditional venue capital firms got involved he
became the first person in the world to start investing in bitcoin related startups nearly
single-handedly funding the entire first generation of bitcoin businesses he currently invest
include bitcoin dot com blockchain dot com bit pay dot com kraken dot com many many many others
and it's free time he enjoys competing in traditional tournaments bitcoin dot com so he's
the expert to get on about this uh and and try to explain it to me maybe if he's got more time we'll
open the phones up for a couple segments and take calls then i will i promise get to the big news
i promise i keep saying i'm going to get into about what's behind the whole trans thing because
they've now admitted what what i've said behind it but it's very important that this this emergency
transmission go out because they're going to use this to end up censoring all speech starting with
one word so we explain that next hour uh but roger ver thanks for coming on with us today
thank you elix so where should we start you just saw that criticism those articles i read how to
you as kind of the bitcoin guru respond well i've been since it was a dollar each and i remember
hearing similar arguments about it when bitcoin hit one dollar per bitcoin for the first time people
said bitcoin has no intrinsic value bitcoin can never be worth the whole dollar each uh
they said all the exact same arguments that we're hearing today when bitcoin is around ten
thousand dollars each well give people the history of bitcoin it's in a snapshot if you could
sure so uh when i first heard about bitcoin i got incredibly excited about it but i knew
that it was the first time history of humankind that thanks to this technology now anyone can send
and receive any amount of money with anyone anywhere in the world instantly basically for free and
there's nothing that anybody can do to stop it and for me uh that's incredibly exciting i think
people should have complete control over their own money and they shouldn't be bossed around or
told what they can and can't do with their own money and bitcoin was this freedom for a single
person that's why i got involved and that's why i'm still here today because i see it as a tool
to empower the individual and strip power away from the governments and corporations and banks
around the world how many cryptocurrencies are there now that we know of there's thousands but
there's only a few that are actually having utility at this point so the ones that people
are actually using on a wide scale would be bitcoin core bitcoin cash ethereum and maybe a
couple of others out there those the ones that have the most volume the most traction the most
users around the world and a lot of people get confused like why would any of these virtual
currencies have any value at all but the answer is simple it's useful first it will have a value
and so bitcoin and ethereum and a bunch of these other ones they're incredibly useful people are
using them for payments all over the world and the supply is limited so first they're gonna ask
more people to use their value goes up over time not down because the supply is limited we're going
to go to break try to fix your sky a little bit most of it's coming across this is really important
tally sticks seashells then copper coins silver coins gold coins it's whatever we accept has value
has value and so the magicians by the Federal Reserve and other central banks they want to
sit there and say this is all a fraud but you guys have actually created and encoded new digital
systems that has value in that and then it does contain and then transfer forward information
that people then want to consider as a currency i think it's completely legitimate it's just a
in my layperson's view and why i've never gotten any of it is it's a minefield of wild wild west
during this period fortunes will be made they will be lost uh and so it's not been my core mission
to be involved in this or i'd be in the stock market god not a money i could have made the
few people i gave advice to are just blown away uh but knowing what i know politically but i just
never stuck my toe in it because i fear regulators would come lock my butt up we'll be back stay with
us every year we spend hundreds of dollars on chocolates jewelry and sappy cards for valentine's
day it's time to get a gift that will really make the sparks fly with the info wars life
his and hers pack now at 40 off get our two fan favorite products super male vitality
and super female vitality that help boost vitality and energy for less you've already taken care of
valentine's day make sure you and your significant other have an incredible valentine's night
a perfect excuse to get a gift for them and a gift for yourself super male vitality and
super female vitality combine ancient wisdom and modern techniques for truly powerful formulas
that you know they'll love fuel your body naturally and celebrate your love today with the info wars
life his and hers pack now available at 40 off at infowarstore.com or by calling 888-253-3139
introducing cell force by info wars life cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and
protection mitochondria produce over 95 percent of your energy they are your body's cellular engines
cell force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria much
like a cellular engine overhaul because when your mitochondria don't run at 100 percent efficiency
then they start producing reactive oxygen species top scientists agree that aging is most likely
caused by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species the antioxidants found
in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market the stronger the antioxidant
the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals boost
protect and adapt with cell force from info wars life head to info wars life dot com or call
1-888-253-3139 i want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at info wars
store.com and this is basically a product that i've been taking anyway before we even launched our
own version of it now the product is body's whole body support this is available right now at a massive
50 discount at info wars store.com it's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support
product on the market it's got the black pepper which makes for optimal absorption to help boost
and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more now we're
not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically proven
to have so i just got this fresh today literally the seal's not even being opened on it it's just
29.95 again big big chunky bottle 120 capsules in this bottle it is body's the ultimate turmeric
and inflammatory support product on the market available right now at info wars store.com get
it today over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country
that if you want proven studies and documentation let me speak for hours just on the files i have
here of what this is proven to do the ingredients in this this is the ultimate immune system boost
for this time of year anytime of the year but immune wall is incredible and folks other formulas
that aren't even as good are 70 80 it's a great deal at 39 immune wall beta glocons olive leaf
and so much more it is concentrated you need to go read what is in here the mushroom blend
of the most expensive highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel
blend i mean this is the next level it's now available ladies and gentlemen immune wall
i think is beyond seasonal beta glocon olive leaf and more immune wall info wars store.com
info wars live.com or triple eight two five three three one three nine
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from austin texas broadcasting
all right roger ver the bitcoin king is uh getting his skype fixture getting on the phone we're
going to talk to him in a minute really important and i know the last few days i said i would get to
what the whole trans movements about uh and why have you say tranny facebook twitter you name it
says they will ban you and we've had executives from facebook and twitter call here and it's
official executives and say we don't want to ban you but you can't use that word above all other
words and i'm going to explain it what's what's behind it it's not the people that men that want
to be women or women that want to be men it has nothing to do with that it has to do with something
bigger the most protected class are going to be augmented humans cyborgs you name it
and you're going to have humanoids which again isn't a man and a woman with the chromosomes
splicing together it's it's they're already announcing the first baby with three parents to
be born this year they've been doing it for decades but it's it's it's not a human it's
something different when you got three parents and he's oh we just changed some of these genes
over here it changes the whole deal especially start mixing two women that's a whole another
subject because women have double the genetic code and then some and then one extra chromosome
but but also the mitochondrial dna that the men don't even have and so
so they're going to they're creating new life forms and they're just creating a stampede where you
don't criticize that and i made the joke a few weeks ago you know there's hundreds of new sexual
preferences and facebook recognizes 50 so i said will i get in trouble if i don't know the lgbq
tz l3 94 qqz 45 abcd qfp it actually came out in the news this week that people are saying
it's this big long thing and if you don't know that you're hateful and you've got to add each
new group to it and i'm just like they got groups people that want to have sex with cars
meant to know what that group's called in fact you look up the name of the days act
and then the and the headlines were where alex jones says gay men want to break in your garage
and have sex with your car nothing about gay men nothing about sex with it was all about
as they add all these new things that make us accept it like this woman wants to be blind
we poured right now in her eye and the taxpayer pays for her to live as a blind woman that's
mental illness are we going to put that on there too well it's it's happened and it'll be like the
national religion to go l3q 943 abcq pblvq 543 z down to dot dot dot 345 nice i'm worried i mean
it's just total mental illness but it's how you destroy a civilization i'm telling you it's like
the south park episode you go have them you know put a fake blowhole on top of your head and uh
sit on the back of you're not a you're not a dolphin you're not a penguin and there's males
and there's females and then there's genetic mutations of hematrodites and we're not attacking
hematrodites the point is is that it's happening to the animals too so we're going to talk about
the plan to end humanity there it is lgbt they they found it lgbt act was pushed for lgbt qq i c a p f
2k i told you'd be something like that you can't make this up and that's in major canadian newspapers
you name it with the president they're saying uh people kind i mean this is an assault on biology
and we have the documents going back to our guests and we're able to get the bitcoin king
roger verb bitcoin.com roger you're the experts i'm just answering my layman you know troglodyte
caveman questions what is this revolution uh if a month ago they said it was the biggest thing in
the world bigger than golden sacks where is it now after the attempts to plunge it because clearly
uh the regulators are coming out saying they're going to try to kill it i think that's what's
caused the latest drop and you would see that as an opportunity to buy more yeah there's been all
sorts of you know crazy stuff going on all over the world but the biggest attack on bitcoin seems
to have been coming from apparently from within but i think it's actually a bunch of people on
the outside so believe it or not if you read the original bitcoin white paper written by satoshi
nakamoto it says bitcoin an electronic peer-to-peer digital cash system uh pretty clearly it was meant
to be used as cash but you have a bunch of people now running around claiming that bitcoin shouldn't
be used as cash it should just be a store of value but uh that's a bunch of nonsense so uh
i mean let's just won't that make it take on and work if it if it if it can be converted to cash
or be seen as cash yeah that's the entire point so i've been involved in bitcoin for over seven
years now my entire goal from day one was to get as many people using it as cash around the world
as quickly as possible and the more people they're using it as money the more difficult it'll be for
governments to demonize or control or manipulated or do bad things to it uh and unfortunately a
group of people from within are openly hostile to the idea of using bitcoin as cash but uh
luckily bitcoin is now split into two versions of bitcoin there's bitcoin core and bitcoin cash
uh bitcoin core is slow expensive to use and unreliable bitcoin cash is super fast super
cheap to use and super reliable so it's not a tough decision as to which one people are going to
start using and that's why i've been putting uh i've sold the vast majority of my bitcoin
core coins for more bitcoin cash bitcoin.com is busy promoting bitcoin cash myself and
everybody around me are busy promoting bitcoin cash because it works exactly how bitcoin did
from day one and at this point bitcoin cash effectively is bitcoin uh is that proprietary
or just i mean with with your holdings in bitcoin uh with your company how big is the market right
now uh the total market cap of bitcoin i think it's uh bitcoin cash is the third biggest uh
cryptocurrency by by market cap at the moment third or third or fourth it fluctuates from day to day
what's that in dollars uh i can look it up for you real quick i don't know off the top of my head
but it's in the billions of dollars so i was always worried it was insiders putting this out as a way
to kind of let it get out there go through the kinks wall wall west and they come in with regulators
take over the ones they wanted but you being so deep in it is there any providence to that i think
that's exactly what happened to bitcoin core at this point uh the entire promise of bitcoin from
day one was to allow anyone anywhere in the world to transact financially with anyone else without
having to get permission from anybody else and there's your your market cap story where you can
see everything but uh bitcoin cash still has that promise of allowing anybody anywhere in the world
to be able to transact with anyone basically for free and nobody can stop it nobody can block your
transaction nobody can freeze your account nobody can control it in any way today bitcoin
transactions very recently whereas how much is a 50 dollars where the average fees for sending a
single transaction on the bitcoin core network there uh the average transaction fee on bitcoin
cash is less than a penny each and we can see today it's up 25 percent today and where everything
else is down by a substantial amount so what you're saying is what's so what's driving it down the
the calls for regulation uh or internal subgroups trying to basically uh milk the system by bringing
it into an economic uh system that it wasn't designed for so if you wanted to destroy bitcoin
from the inside out you would do the exact things that these bitcoin core people have done they
managed to get control of the major discussion platforms for bitcoin engage in massive censorship
delete anybody's post who's in uh has a different opinion than their point of view uh had engaged in
massive trolling on the internet just personal attacks and non-arguments just lots of name calling
they've driven away some of the most passionate people from the ecosystem i was the first person
the entire world to translate the bitcoin white paper into japanese uh jihon wu the CEO of bitmain
was the first person in the world this is riveting because i'm not i'm not even a expert on this but
i'm an expert on systems and that's what happened with us nationalist movements you name it and it's
come out too they have these huge war rooms i don't know about the company you're talking about but
sometimes thousands of people in office buildings with big boards up there commanding the attacks
running them the bots then they claim the russians are doing it the russians are in the stone age
when it comes to stuff like this uh and it's all big megabanks big globalists and what you're saying
is uh that that it appears that that's going on that exact thing has been happening in bitcoin and
they very clearly seem to have organized talking points for the trolls on twitter and social media
from one day to the next they switch from one talking point that they call bitcoin cash v cash
is an attack they try and say that mentally ill they have all sorts of these crazy attacks and
they all come in waves where they're all on point with each other and it's just absolutely stunning
to see that this has happened to the bitcoin ecosystem and we saw bitcoin's market share go from
you know 90 plus percent now down to 30 percent and there's all these different cryptocurrencies
now that are jockeying for position which is if you were a globalist and wanted to prevent people
from being able to have control over their own money and want the governments to control everything
this is exactly how you would do it and it's incredible all right we're gonna come back we're
gonna come right back with roger uh var mr mr bitcoin uh mr cryptocurrency and we'll take some
of your phone calls eight seven seven seven eight nine alex eight seven seven seven eight
nine two five three nine specifically for him on the subject for two segments just specifically
on bitcoin cryptocurrencies your questions talking to the bitcoin guru uh again that's eight seven
seven seven eight nine uh alex uh will be uh right back on the other side just briefly
we have amazing supplements we have the amazing products that are about to go off sale because
we're getting close to selling out uh we've got the bodies uh amazing ultimate turmeric formula
that we've got out now that's so good in so many ways anti-inflammatory anti you name it folks look
into it ikaran our latest product 30-day liver and kidney cleanse it's 50 off but it's not selling
out right now it just came out yesterday uh we've got so many other great products like the real red
pill uh that is a vitamin uh but but but but mainly a a mineral compound structure then it has a
precursor hormone to it the scene is totally legal and safe that then powers your entire
endocrine system that's at info wars live dot com the real red pill all of it available at info
wars live dot com or triple eight two five three three one three nine and again your purchase of
the products makes this entire transmission possible but check out ikaran today support good
oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you
a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean
enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking
toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our
amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times
instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an
array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super
blue fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info
war store dot com that's info war store dot com maximize your potential and take your body back
with super male vitality we're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the
globalist war on male vitality our ultimate non-gmo formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs
that have been gathered from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency super male
vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic
chemicals info war's life wants to bring you the highest quality products our unique combination of
ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior
vitality in males support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality
and energize your life take control of your body grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info
war's life dot com that's info war's life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny well so does he live
from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones coming up the war on western civilization goes
into high gear sweden appoints pakistani to lead national heritage board his job is to teach people
that swedes aren't sweden again it's one thing to be open and bring in groups to be more diverse and
culture and and that's but to bring people in to say we would get rid of this western culture
that was the plan put out by the former head of the eu then became the head of the whole
refugee program who died two weeks ago peter southerland that story's on info wars dot com
austria left bars owners banning asylum seekers after crime explosion that's right you got to
let everybody in you got to give them your housing wash them post upset that trump immigration plan
will keep whites a majority for a few more years they say it's important to get rid of whites being
the majority because whites are bad and i was watching a clip on my internet this morning on
vice they actually have programs where they talk about how whites are inherently evil and shouldn't
be able to travel i mean this is like the most rate and it's all being directed by white leftist
who want to create infighting but i digress this is short segment long segment coming up
roger ver of bitcoin dot com joins us and he's getting into the whole war inside bitcoin he
says the plunge in bitcoin one of many but over time it just keeps going up but why don't we show
up why don't we show like a seven-year graph rate your graph on bitcoin that those exist i know
they're out there uh you know says there's an internal war going on i don't know all the details
i just know he's the bitcoin guru so we'll go to break in a few minutes for one minute and then
come back go to your calls garret drew drew stefan daryl patrick if what you're saying is accurate
and people say you're a credible guy you have a lot of fans then uh what is the prognosis in this
in this globalist directed civil war inside crypto uh the prognosis here is that people are
going to have to pick the crypto currencies that are the most useful for them in their daily lives
and start using them and that's what we're seeing happen right now with bitcoin cash
and uh literally you can't make this stuff up the the president of the bilderberg group
is the lead investor in this company called blockstream that basically did exactly what
their name implies they got involved they blocked the stream of transactions on the bitcoin network
and did everything they possibly could to make bitcoin less useful as money these companies
have uh these people have openly attacked every company that wants to use bitcoin as money they
attack anybody who promotes using bitcoin as money it's absolutely uh maddening to see these people
getting involved and uh most they raised a hundred and fifty million dollars from traditional finance
companies uh and most of it came from uh you know axa and the head of the bilderberg group there
that's uh exactly who this this money came from and it's just maddening to anybody who thinks that
bitcoin should be usable as money well i've noticed that globalists love to have a double meaning
like we will stream you the block we're the block stream but really it's we're blocking the stream
they are i've noticed they're obsessed with double meanings like that and that seems to be
exactly what we've had uh happened here with bitcoin they are openly hostile to people using
it as money you actually if you just simply quote the the title of the original bitcoin
white paper they get angry and they say all sorts of crazy things like no bitcoin was never meant
to be used as money bitcoin can never scale on chain so people can use that as a pack of lies
bitcoin was ready for the entire world to be able to use it it could scale on chain to support that
right there today no problem at all uh and yet these people are arguing against people having
control of their money there's the title bitcoin appear to appear electronic cash system and they
mock bitcoin cash they mock the idea of using bitcoin as cash but it's right there well it's
pretty obvious that it was meant to challenge the central banks as the inventor said so the Jedi
mind trick of you're not wearing a blue shirt roger of course you are wearing a blue shirt i'm
not wearing a mallard green shirt well actually i am it's it's it's because i mean just as a lay person
on its face that's how bitcoin takes over or a cryptocurrency whoever gets in first and becomes
ubiquitously traded then it's game over that's been the goal from the beginning that has been
the goal from the beginning but these disruptors have come in and disrupted the entire thing and
now people are figuring out well which currency should i use and what's happening with this bitcoin
used to be fast cheap and reliable but now bitcoin core is super expensive slow and unreliable and
now we have this bitcoin are you saying i should come in after the break playing the bc boy sabotage
and you'd absolutely shut alex all right i again i don't really think about any other stuff i was
trying to work my way through it here but it makes a lot of sense what this guy's saying news wars
dot com info wars dot com we'll be back on the other side stay with us i'm so excited the new
product info wars life dot com in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to
the absolute top the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any
stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly i just went off
what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were
charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula
working with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill
now available at info wars store dot com and your purchase fuzz the operation waging war
on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
i'm hosting the fourth hour today this john revamport is under the weather
the great john revamport and then we got to your whole three hour kickoff with the war room with
the one shroyer and roger stone now returned from his big victory lap in the uk i've said this for
two three days i got behind with big breaking news we're going to watch the stock market
like where is it it was like 650 points down at the low let's keep monitoring that the dow Jones
that's going on but we know that throughout history big financial interest come in and
bring down things they want to take control of so how far down is the dow right now it is down 489
points again it would have to be down that's just in today's trading it's down less than 2000 points
the last week since this started it would have to be down close to 8 000 points to erase all of the
trump gains uh so just remember that and the fellow reserve is raising rates on it to drive it down
they admit they want to kill the trump recovery that is a fact but we don't just stand on the
stock market it is a big bubble we stand on the record new jobs record new startups and innovation
new technologies new systems we never know what the new technology like computers or
like electricity or anything you know the dot com that is going to blast us in the next level
many bubbles are good if they're based on a real technology and a real infrastructure buildup and
trump isn't attempting that the globalists are doubling down to prop up the chinese communists
right now but i don't see that going too well we're joined by roger verb taking your phone
calls of bitcoin.com i again don't know all the little idiosyncratic things with different companies
and groups and what they say it's for and what's happening i just know about the bigger markets
and how these systems come and go and you know some of the basics about fiat currencies and
like the fellow reserve has versus this uh so we're going to talk to garret uh who disagrees
first and drew drew staphon daryl patrick and others but before we go to these calls any other
key points you want to add roger uh very simply bitcoin cash is usable as money bitcoin core
is not and it's not by design of these people that managed to take over the project and drive away
some of the best most passionate people from the project and all the early bitcoin adopters that
we're so excited about the liberating technology this would become for the entire world uh all
of them have left the bitcoin or most of them have left the bitcoin core project at this point
and most of them are with bitcoin cash at this point myself included uh gavin and rison the person
that satoshi nakamoto basically turned over the project to and he left as well as a whole bunch
of other early adopters of bitcoin where do you predict this fight's going uh i think because
bitcoin core has succeeded in making bitcoin core not useful as money and not useful as payments
by the end of this year bitcoin core will no longer be the top cryptocurrency i think uh
one or multiple other cryptocurrencies will will supplant bitcoin core uh top spot that it has today
and did i hear you right that your platform's up now because people uh don't don't don't like this
um well i got involved in bitcoin because i wanted to enable every single person on the
planet to have 100 complete control of their own money i started running bitcoin.com i believe back
in 2015 uh or 2016 and uh we know we're quickly quickly i'm just saying on the day everything
else is down but it looks like yours is up sure and not just for the day bitcoin cash is outperform
bitcoin core for the day for the week for the last month for the last three months and for
the last six months so bitcoin cash is outperform bitcoin uh pretty much on every time period uh
so that adds credence to the market doesn't like what they're doing that they're doing and i guess
to try to consolidate control of the market is that what you're saying um the market is you know
millions of people all over the world getting involved so there's no one single player that
i think is pulling the strings and all this but for anybody that's looking for a currency that
allows them to send and receive any amount of money with anyone anywhere in the world instantly
and without permission from anybody bitcoin cash enables that bitcoin core does not sure all i'm
saying is is that is that adds credence to what you're saying that they're doing things that are
driving down their own worth but they're in a consolidation phase and and so that's that's how
the globalist operate again i don't know this group from adam i'm just trying as a layperson
understand it and if you go back to the page that you head up there with all the different
cryptocurrency uh market caps there you'll see at the very top it says bitcoin dominance at the
very top of the screen and it'll be around 30 something percent of the even above the list
that you see there at the very top there and uh it says 30 34 point something i believe it's a
little bit blurry for me right there as you click on that you can see the history and it went from
being 90 something percent very recently down to the 35.6 percent that it is today and that's
is a direct result of these people making bitcoin not usable as money and uh guess what when bitcoin
is not usable as money people are going to stop using it as money and when something is uh slow
expensive and unreliable and other alternatives are fast cheap and reliable people are going to start
using those alternatives and that's exactly what we've seen we've got you on because you're a respected
guy out there and people say you really know what you're talking about i have to be honest again uh
that this is very complex understand the basic generalities and how these systems work but i
don't i can't vouch for you or the other groups want to be clear about that just because i'm not
usually flying somewhat blind let's go to somebody that disagrees up front to add some balance to this
garret in california you're on the year worldwide uh with roger verre hey alex big fan love your
supplements um just want to say that bcash is just a fork of the original bitcoin and it's a scam
it's a chinese scam coin that this guy roger has been arrested for some explosives and all this
other crap um is trying to push his own agenda and actually take down bitcoin okay i said arrested for
what he was arrested i'd love to reply to that hold on uh uh uh uh uh arrested for what he was
arrested for selling explosives um his his bcash is basically just a fork of the original uh bitcoin
we heard that part okay okay we'll come back to you in a minute garret uh go ahead roger so that's
this guy very well could be a paid operative trying to disrupt bitcoin cash it's very simple the name
is bitcoin cash not bcash bcash is a completely separate project not related at all to bch which
is in reference to bitcoin cash in reference to me uh selling explosives on the internet that's
absolutely true back in 1999 i sold firecrackers on ebay back when ebay had a guns and ammo section
i also made the mistake of running for california state assembly as a libertarian saying if i were
elected i wouldn't even accept a salary because that comes from people who are paying taxes who
might not want to pay my salary and uh i complained about the atf and fbi burning down a bunch of
kids to death in a church in waco texas i wound up being the only person the entire nation to be
prosecuted for selling that product without a permit and now all these people that don't want
bitcoin to be useful as money go and attack me because i sold firecrackers on ebay back i was
about to say people don't know in most cities even in texas it's pro firecracker firework you bring
fireworks you buy in travis county into austin it's like a felony but last time i checked
excited one of my friends is a cop tell me that uh is that like a you're taking firecrackers in
the back of the car to go to my parents and pop them off because you know that's a felony or
something but the point is uh let's see how uh garret responds to that garret alex well if you
look at some some of the transaction fees and some of the stuff bitcoin was originally developed to
be open source that anybody could mine it what happened is roger vair and his buddy g hanwoo
they control the miners that basically mine bitcoin and they actually won't even allow
other people to mine their other bcash they basically uh have cut off the market so
bcash is actually essentially controlled scam coin that's basically done in china um i only buy
bitcoin i recommend everybody else to only buy btc that's the code for it buy bitcoin you can buy
it pretty much anywhere but bcash is a scam don't buy it you know this is why i didn't get involved
in it i understand it's got a value because it's encoded we all deserve to have our own digital
systems we agree upon in any free society to to whether it's pebbles or gold or bitcoin whatever
and then i just knew while while west that this was gonna become huge and explosive i said that
back eight nine years you know eight years ago i learned about it seven eight years ago from max
keiser but i just knew how anything while while west turns into this i didn't spend all my time
studying this just to be able to get my listeners a good opinion and that's that's why i stay away
from all this because it just gives me a headache roger because you seem like a nice guy he seems
like a nice guy i don't know what to believe well i'll give you an example we're talking about
cryptocurrencies whether or not i sold firecrackers on ebay more than a decade ago has absolutely
nothing to do whether or not bitcoin cash is a useful cryptocurrency or not so why he's bringing
up that point and on the point of jihad with the first person the entire world to translate the bitcoin
white paper into chinese and bring bitcoin to china he sells his bitcoin mining equipment to anyone
anywhere in the world can buy it the biggest supporter of bitcoin core and the the blockstream
group is a company called bit fury with offices literally on pennsylvania avenue in washington
dc they employ a bunch of people that formerly worked at the white house they don't sell their
miners to anywhere bit bit bit main out of china they're mining software is open source they're
mining pool software is an open source they'll sell their hardware to anybody it's very very clear
which of these groups support free speech and open transactions and which which one's a bunch of a
totalitarian tyrants that want to control people and tell them what they can or can't do without
their own money who knew the future would look like this bitcoins miners china pennsylvania
avenue i've heard eric prince is big and bitcoin i mean it's just i try to study all this and i'm
an expert in many areas but we'll be back to take more calls this is riveting
fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon
savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat
right from the pack bacon or warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon
ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot com this is dan billard you
owe the iris money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you i've defended people from the iris
for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you too i wrote the book on iris settlement
and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to finally get
free of iris debt with the iris's new programs there's never been a better time to solve your
problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website danpilla.com heart disease is on the rise
clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation
and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong hear
how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america my
blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how
much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body
extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two-month supply today
by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
matt in ohio you're on the air another matt go ahead yeah hey listen i just wanted to say real
quick i'm a longtime listener of uh in fours and i i just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you
guys are offering are absolutely fantastic and that really is a great way to deal with this battle
in the info war it might seem like a simple thing but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that
you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing well thank you my favorite new one uh is the don't
tread on me but said it says won't tread on me and it's a big daglows snake gads and snake and then
it's got the american flag info wars dot com on the right arm i mean that's a great way just to
meet like-minded people uh and spread the word and also exercise free speech and the newest one is
trigger warning t-shirt trigger warning t-shirt which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield
sign and then info wars dot com on the back that is the new shirt of the mind available
exclusively at info wars store dot com info wars live is bringing you a breakthrough in modern
medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory health and normal
breathing this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in france noticed that people
who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms
like running nose itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production they began studying the effects
in published trials in their public trials now we are introducing the fruit of the research
of fast-acting chewable tablet just two two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now
at info wars life dot com or by calling till three triple eight two five three three one three nine
you're listening to the alex jones show
we are on the march the empire is on the run alex jones and the gcm radio network
i'll admit it i have a problem i will do all this research all this preparation at home and
and once i get here and have all these things i want to cover and then i get stuck on a few
big topics i never get to and i get behind i get behind on calls i get behind on stories i get
behind on reports just incredibly important stuff that's why i'm hosting the fourth hour today
and it's going to be particularly power packed
um the biggest bombshell information has now come out people overuse bombshell this is bombshell
explosive on obama quarter backing the illegal spying on trump and his entire entourage and
i've been telling you about for over a year and a half it's now all breaking right now it's on
info wars dot com and so i've been saying we already know the new stuff coming out in text
messages it just confirms what we already know but to watch cnn's got me on the front page right
now saying jones is putting out hoaxes with the right wing media and then they say it's a hoax
that this email meant something uh it's a hoax that there was a secret society they just said it
joking it was a hoax they said insurance policy so when they say hoax as you now see and you'll
have one headline on the front page you go to the article it's different so it says hoax on the
front page at least it did five minutes ago and i was looking at it and it just gives me a headache
because they've been caught red-handed and i already have the sources that said it's going to be
obama running the whole thing and just remember trump's the president now he knows all this and
admiral rogers told him everything he's just let them all lie to catch them in perjury so that's
coming up we're going to your phone calls right now for roger ver dealing with bitcoin uh and the
big regulators saying they're coming after it other cryptocurrencies the intermural uh wars going on
within the currencies it's it's just it's just a kettle of fish drew in indiana you're on the
air go ahead hey thanks elix uh first i want to say it's well known in the bitcoin community that
roger ver is a scammer and this is the latest scam um just hours before this interview he
manipulated the price of bitcoin cash up 25 percent just pushes narrative and i do have a question
for him he's been telling everyone that craig right is the toshinakamoto the creator of bitcoin
but this can be easily proven through cryptography by signing the genesis block which means
proving that he mined it the first of bitcoin um he cannot do that but roger continues telling people
that this guy is toshinakamoto which is a lie he must release the core from cyber dron the heart
of our world will you release the core why haven't traded a single right will you release the cube
that's right it's the cube so are you megatron roger ver are you megatron if so prepare for battle
i'm not megatron i haven't traded a single bitcoin core or bitcoin cash today uh of course i'm
pleasantly surprised the price is up 25 percent today but that isn't because of me and i don't
know who did it but uh i i think people understand bitcoin cash is useful as money bitcoin core is
not and the developers behind bitcoin core don't want it to be useful as money mainly because
they don't even understand what made bitcoin a success in the first place uh in regards to
me saying that craig right is toshinakamoto i have never said that publicly um i have no idea if
he's toshinakamoto and i whoever toshinakamoto is wherever he is he deserves to have the absolute
complete privacy because that's what he wants out of the world and whether or not craig toshinakamoto
he is uh craig right is to toshinakamoto the things that he is saying is spot on they're
exactly in line with what made bitcoin successful he has an incredibly deep understanding of
economics and the reasons that became became a success whether he's toshinakamoto i think he
has someone worth listening to okay okay here's my problem see i just want to know about bitcoin
and currency in the markets this is why i always stay out all this and why as soon as i get one
bitcoin guessed on it's like boom boom boom boom boom more and then i'm going to be in the middle
of all this i don't know who i know who the the pseudonym or whatever the japanese guy the gnome
diploma whatever or or is it a real guy that's a whole another area of a soap opera that i don't
have the brain space to be involved in with all these other big serious issues happening uh so
i'm glad we're having a debate but this is why i stay out of bitcoin good lord i mean uh drew
thank you for the call but i will say this i don't know roger furr i'd always like when the king
pens a bitcoin seems like a smart guy and then all these other guys pile in so quickly they don't
like him it makes my head spin what's going on here roger maybe it's an orchestrated attack
maybe there are a bunch of people that have been brainwashed by the previous orchestrated attack
out there anybody with any common sense you have two forms of bitcoin one is fast keeping reliable
the other is slow expensive and unreliable you see how it all devolved into that discussion instead
about the general future about cryptocurrencies and the establishment clearly is coming after it right
now yeah and i think this is exactly what the establishment want a bunch of in fighting within
bitcoin so that the or the cryptocurrency ecosystem so that people are busy fighting with each other
rather than uh fending off a bunch of regulation and control by governments and uh congratulations
to the disruptors that you guys have succeeded in disrupting this uh incredibly liberating tool
for the entire planet but uh you've just slowed us down you haven't stopped us we're still gonna
enable every single human well i think the graph shows that i mean he goes up and down but over
time it's going straight up uh it is it's more useful than then dollars it's more useful than
euros it's more useful than the japanese yen and there's a limited supply you don't have these
central banks they can print as many as they want at any time for any reason that the supply is limited
by the laws of mathematics not the promise of some politicians and we all know how good uh
how much we should trust the promise of a politician uh let's go to see here stefan in
pencilvania go ahead stefan thanks for calling hey alex great to talk to you i just have really
one point to say uh i've been kind of i'm kind of new with the whole bitcoin phenomenon i just
recently started around this december to even purchase it and one thing i do want to say though
that i don't think anybody really noticed is uh on the 21st of december trump signed in that
executive order targeting you know uh serious human rights abusers and offenders and since
the money laundering down yeah yeah exactly so and if you actually look at the bitcoin
chart on google its highest peak was at around 17 seven on december i believe 20 second it's
literally the same time frame so in it from what it looks like to me i mean i know there's a lot
of speculation that bitcoin is used as like a dark currency for you know underground transactions
because of its anonymous you know quality uh to you know basically pass money from party to party
without you know sure but you're saying you look at the graph from that date bitcoin starts going
down right around that point i would imagine a bunch of other underground currencies did as well
yeah exactly so what i think is a lot of these people that are aware that this crackdown is
about to happen they're selling everything off and jumping ship like how the roth child's uh
are basically there's there's the end of the polionic wars in in 1815 yeah exactly so i think
that is one of the it might be a contributing factor i'm not sure i'm not an expert i just
wanted to kind of calling because i had this little out of the mouths of babes brother yeah i don't
have my head down on the weeds on this i'm kind of up here and exactly is that is that i see it
peaking and now this and all of it tied together and i don't think trumps targeted himself but
i think what he's done does go after stuff that is beneath the radar but it's you know not bitcoin's
fault that isis uses it or i mean that it's just you know criminals are always going to use everything
we we we can't ban guns because criminals use it uh any comments on that roger yeah the currency
that's used by the most terrorists to do the most bad things around the world is the u.s dollar yet
we don't hear the politicians claiming we should ban the u.s dollar uh and if these terrorists start
using bitcoin instead of the u.s dollar that's a sign that bitcoin is a better form of money
than the u.s dollar so it should be something that we looked at negatively when people start
using bitcoin for bad things that just means that it's a better form of money than the other
alternatives out there and at the end of the day people should be able to use the best form of money
that's available to them well the first thing they do is every time they somebody commits a
crime they go look on their computer to see if they ever visit info wars well it's one of the top
hundred sites of course everybody's visited it they go oh look this person and most of time it
turns out they hated me all right sorry they're callers i'm out of time i appreciate roger verge
joining us we got a bunch of world news trumps prayer breakfast and more coming up very christian
nationalistic and we got a bunch of big breaking news i'll hit the training conspiracy as well stay with us
hello i'm mike vindal the inventor of my pillow and like all of you out there i had problem sleeping
pillows would go flat i would flip flop all night long i would wake up with a sore neck maybe a
headache or feel like i needed a nap even though i slept eight hours when i invented my pillow i
wanted it to where you can move the patent and fill to give you the exact support you need as an
individual regardless of sleep position my pillow will get you into that deep REM sleep faster and
you will stay there longer it's not about how much time we spend in bed it's about how much of that
quality sleep we get i do all of my own manufacturing right here in the united states i have a 10 year
warranty you can wash and dry my pillow and i give you a 60 day money back guarantee so you have
nothing to lose and here's my best offer ever you can buy one of my pillows and get one absolutely
free go to my pillow.com or call 800-870-0305 and use promo code GCN that's my pillow.com or 800-870-0305
with promo code GCN i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here
first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration
systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution
i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info
war store.com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free
food paste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that
for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad
the colloidal silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or triple a 253-3139 and your purchase of
the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support you know i've got some talking points
here about caveman from infowarslife.com but instead of going on those talking points let me
just give you what i've experienced personally from all the wives tales in every culture we know
that the bones have the essence we know chicken noodle soup it's great for people that are sick
again in every culture this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify
how strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated
life force that is in this is incredible ladies and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether
it's for your arteries and your veins whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this
ladies and gentlemen is the strongest most concentrated bone broth formula out there and
it's amazing find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com what it can do for your family
and again i want to thank you all for your support you are funding the information war in 2018.
Mike in Arizona you're on the air worldwide go ahead. Oh Alex you can rent any day of the week
thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time
infowars listener i want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend
would like to say thanks for the anthroplex thank you i use the bio true selenium the super blue
toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome and
thank you so much Alex for the info wars life products they are quality i can't wait to get
some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely we because
then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's
a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and
ourselves we can take our country back you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption alex jones
it's the time of the season when love runs high in this time give it to me easy
and let me try with pleasure hands to take you in the sun from us we are back live broadcasting
world one and your host alex jones i am going to host the fourth hour today again i wanted to start
a fourth hour about 12 years ago just so i'd have more time for the first six seven eight years of
the broadcast i only did three hours every day at this time and then i had a fourth hour and i had
so many duties launching the info wars news center that i cut that hour for a while for three years
and i brought it back about another three years ago and people host that fourth hour to kind of
see who are good talk show hosts who you know who can handle a big audience and a lot of breaking news
and we found a lot of great people and with that we're going to launch a new broadcast
here just the next few months i tend to be live at least 20 hours a day before 2019
and that is what your support your prayers and everything is helping us do here so again i salute
you all and i thank you all for what you've done you know there's some subjects that are so big
that i have a tendency to say i'm going to cover them and then i just don't cover it because so much
breaks so much breaks during the show that by the time i'm three hours in i'm not really tired
i'm more relaxed and then i remember the topic i was going to cover and don't feel the same outrage
and then i feel like it's not a proper time to cover it i'm trying to explain why i do some
of these things that i can't stand and also i know what the media's response is going to be
and it's not that the media attacks me and lies about me when i cover these topics it's that
it's not that i'm being attacked against me it's that i know this is the key some of these
certain areas there's a lot of keys but there's compared to all the rest of the information
in the world it's very rare and we have the keys we have the absolute keys we know the
enemy program we understand it we're not that smart i read the books written by them
them i read the books hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of them and i
would have been a totally different person if i hadn't stopped reading
children's books when i was about seven years old and started reading
adult books and it was all because my dad loved encyclopedias and he would they would not buy me
very few toys and have to go you roll on to get a new bike it was good it taught me how to work
but my dad would buy me any books i wanted and so i'd say i'd get home from school or after
practice whatever they'd have time life books the wall wall west or time life books the occult or
time life books world war two time life books vietnam time life books uh you know the manhattan
project and other super science you know projects or whatever and i would those things would come
so many that there was just because my dad's a big book guy the whole house was just bookshelves then
funny kind of the age of tv it's not with computers you see this house now it's got a lot
of bookshelves rather than like the old house in dallas and it was just walls of them and it was like
i mean i read 20 volume set world war two by the time i was eight years old i mean i read it and
that was just an encyclopedia on world war two well how many world war two historians actually
read that you see and that's kind of entry level by 11 i was reading order of the death set 1100
pages or whatever not 900 pages and shears rise and fall the third right and that was just one
dalliance uh studying world war two i've probably read 200 books on world war two and i'm not bragging
about it i just get around historians and people they don't know half of what i know and it's all
embedded in there and then i studied everything else and then my dad said you want to read this
zebidin brazinski technotronic era and i mean i was reading all the white papers all the top
thinking tragedy and hope when i was 18 getting politically involved and some of the local old
guys up here were blown away when i'd be they'd be talking about some of the stuff and i knew all
about it and i remember some old guy forget his name i was at some gun round he said come on over
here and he and his old wife were retirees and they were in their rv from like organ or something
he said this is a rare book because back then it had not been republished but one time first
a thousand for the state department and then when the plates got out about 10 000 was one of the
original reprints now it's reprinted we have it in four store.com i didn't mean to do a plug on it
and it's the one that's 1100 pages long and man you read that in like 18 i read tragedy and hope
and it was like the final piece because i had read i don't want to exaggerate
600 700 books on modern history ancient history warfare the roman empire the books written by
julia caeser you wrote two books i read both of them there was letters back to the senate that were
put into books and so i read tragedy and hope and it was like i knew what was on the next page i
but it was all a secret document the state department the cia because they couldn't understand
how their whole system was working and there he was explaining it all to them and it was like
the final pieces went tick tick tick tick tick so then when i learned oh berry goldwater talked
about this and ron paul knows about this those were like my buddies because they knew what i knew
and then you get into the medical side of the tyranny
and how they're doing that and everything else and it's like russell blalock knew a lot of this
stuff brain surgeon famous very successful invented a bunch of different brain surgery so
super rich and and and then he started coming on my show about 10 years ago and i ended up talking
to this publisher and people and they said oh you didn't know you you basically you were the final
step with blalock he went and read all these eugenics books all these doctorate books and then
he moved out of the middle of nowhere and won't talk to anybody that's why you never hear blalock
anymore i mean he would come on and lay out stuff i never even heard i was looking at it was even
worse than i thought it's like these psychos all wrote books about this stuff is what i'm telling
you and that's what's frustrating is we're not lying to you the globalists hate this broadcast
because we actually read what they're planning and then we can extrapolate where they're going
with it now because you got 90 percent of it well where the roadmap goes isn't hard to guess
let's say you're coming up to mountains and your roadmap ends but you're on a highway you see the
valley well the road's going to go through the valley so that's what i'm telling you folks is
what's so frustrating is that the very people fighting us 99 percent of them don't even know
any of this they don't understand any of it they don't know it they don't want to know it they just
want talking points to repeat and get their paycheck and go home and watch netflix and that's
what's so frustrating is i'll put out this info when we start the next hour six after i'm getting
into it in a week it's not even that i'm trying to build it up it's not even that
big an issue you already know it it's just that they're now admitting it and then they're going
to have a headline alex jones hates gay people and it's not that they're attacking me with that
that hurts me it's that it has nothing to do with gay people nothing and i say that on the show
and then they clip it and edit it in a nazi collaborator with a funded group edits it and
puts it out as a lie so you won't learn about it and then they'll have cobear and then they'll have
homeland on showtime and they'll have all these shows come out and say i'm alex jones as an actor
and then say horrible things out of my mouth i didn't say to psychologically inoculate you
to not listen to me because i've noticed what they do
do the one thing they're so scared of is the chemicals in the food and the water
and the turning us into these hemaphroditic sterile creatures and that's their whole agenda
and then they've got a semantical plan built into it where they're going to outlaw the criticism
and the warning of this chemical biological apocalypse that is about to happen and that's
the whole point is that that needs to be explained how once they get you to ban one word every other
domino falls and i have their plan reverse engineered and if we don't stop them it's the
end of the species this is so alien this attack info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough
in modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and
respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen block in the 1960s researchers in
france noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced
less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production
they began studying the effects in public trials in their public trials now we are introducing
the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet just two two tablets at the first sign
of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate
seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available
now at info wars life dot com by calling till three triple eight two five three three one three nine
fuel your body with carnivore the new digestive enzyme product by info wars life
digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components they also help prevent
discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut digestive
enzyme production declines as we age carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally
present in the body enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again you can eat protein
heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated
with high meat diets just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids the building blocks to your muscles carnivore also contains
digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all
types of meals don't let a meal go to waste use carnivore by info wars life head to info wars
life dot com and secure your bottle now that's info wars life dot com every year we spend hundreds
of dollars on chocolates jewelry and sappy cards for valentine's day it's time to get a gift that
will really make the sparks fly with the info wars life his and hers pack now at 40 off get our
two fan favorite products super male vitality and super female vitality that help boost vitality
and energy for less you've already taken care of valentine's day make sure you and your significant
other have an incredible valentine's night a perfect excuse to get a gift for them and a gift
for yourself super male vitality and super female vitality combine ancient wisdom and modern techniques
for truly powerful formulas that you know they'll love fuel your body naturally and celebrate your
love today with the info wars life his and hers pack now available at 40 off at info wars store
dot com or by calling 888-253-3139 over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic
firms in the country that if you want proven studies and documentation i'm going to speak for
hours just on the files i have here of what this is proven to do the ingredients in this
this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year anytime of the year but immune wall
is incredible and folks other formulas that aren't even as good are 70 80 it's a great deal at 39
immune wall beta glucons olive leaf and so much more it is concentrated you need to go read what
is in here the mushroom blend of the most expensive highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate a citrus peel blend i mean this is the next level it's now available ladies and gentlemen
immune wall i think is beyond season beta glucon olive leaf and more immune wall info wars store
dot com info wars life dot com or triple eight two five three three one three nine
you're listening to the alex jones show
from deep in the heart of texas the home coming to you from the former united states of america
from deep in the heart of texas it's alex jones that's right that's an older liner before
trump got in and now it's a civil war with the globalists and their factions try to get control
of the country but i would love the next few years to say that things are stable enough we'll still
have global forces obviously and pockets of them and we are not authoritarian so uh as long as they
don't openly involve in sedition they'll be allowed to operate our our political system our
world view our political proves of genuine success and durability and happiness are so much more
genuine than they push it shouldn't be a problem but with their media semi-dominant still it is a
serious problem but uh i point is i would love to be able to retire those liners because to admit
we were no longer the united states of america to a great extent was the beginning of becoming the
united states of america again people would hear that and they think alex is demoralizing us he's
being negative that i even learned some globalists had debates about us and it was decided all
their defeated let him scare the hell out of them because i know it was discussed uh having me taken
out in fact i was physically attacked quite a few times in war and other things uh but but then
uh but but then the decision was made by some of the combines that i was a joke just like you're
a joke they think uh and that he'll just scare everybody because they knew what i was saying
was accurate 99 percent of it none of us are perfect and so they let us operate until we were too
big and it was too late and hillary clinton was up there saying what type of dark heart do you have
to say the type of things i say about her see she made it personal because she knows i was having
the women on that she represented men against who were little girls
when those men raped them to the point of not even i mean to two women
we've had on that that that she fought against in rape cases one of them was 11 years old
i don't know the tales of that again but it takes a lot to take an 11 year old girl
seven men raped and to wreck them and that's who hillary is so it's this big joke they
launched this whole thing about how they're going to protect women everything when they're the monsters
and that's why they hate us is because they know we've got their number and we're
crazy enough to go ahead and just say it in fact almost no coverage of the quentin tarantino
information where he on howard stern said roma polanski kidnapping drugging and raping an 11
year old girl anally and he can read the police report so she bled all over the place yeah i guess
she said she was consenting when she was passed out later she sure wasn't when she ran back to mommy
and said i'm really hurt but according to harvey winstein's best buddy and the number one person
winstein produced for all this race baiting garbage films mr mutanoid
says that it was consensual for roma polanski to stick his filthy diseased proboscis into that
little girl meryl Streep thinks it's great too because she's a sack of garbage and see you think
these sacks of garbage like us here i'm her one time a top hollywood producer with one of the top
lawyers in hollywood you know i said the name you looking up at the top threatened me and i'm not a
tough i'm not looking for trouble and i i i just told him you know go ahead and fill your hand and
then they were shaking in fear because everyone else grovels to these people like their god
and not all of hollywood's bad clean eastwood's awesome there's other great people they all just
keep their head down live nowhere near hollywood and and battle it from afar uh take clonnie's
woods new movie coming out review clonnie's wood 1517 to paris is an eclectic mix of patriotic
christian and cutting edge and will resonate in the hardland job is 411 and you're like okay but
glorifying this and everything you know it's cheesy no it's not not when the other thing is
people saying it's okay to have sex with your children
see they've been trying to destroy christianity destroy heroism destroy men that are willing
to take action because these criminals are scared of that and see clonnie's wood wants to say no
that's what we're proud of is people to take action in the face of overwhelming odds that's
what we stand for he's just the right thing that's why they fear him
i've gotten to know people at the highest levels of hollywood and since the whole
quasi collapse of it i've gotten to know people that are in the conservative secret society big
producer some of the biggest and none of them live in hollywood none of them want to be anywhere
near it and they try to just do decent stuff and strangely enough everything they do is a hit
isn't that crazy the most successful people long range in hollywood are the libertarian christian
conservative patriots because you know what that's what america wants anyway see that's the crazy
thing about this is all of you people that went along with the power structure so long thinking
you'd feather your own nest while you poison your own culture and it blew back on your own
children don't have step one don't crap in your pool don't piss in your own pool don't piss in
anybody's pool because if you're pissing in somebody else's pool it'll be okay for them to piss in
your pool treat people like you want to be treated but there's this attitude from the harvey wine
steams that it's okay take quentin tarantino saying it's not you know bad that little girl wanted
it you know a little 13 year old girl and even now it turns like that's really sick i've got a
young daughter that age you're you're making me quentin go back on this one's like no no no no no
because the biggest thing is to say it out in the open and quentin tarantino was such a protected
demon that no one but gawker picked it up and said oh jones is covered and resurfaced tarantino
defending the rape of a 13 year old girl by roman polanski think about that here's audio quentin
tarantino defending roman polanski 30 year old girl wanted to have it maybe scroll down
that's what it takes is for us to put that out and then you just get one little blurb of it
so oh my gosh they'll talk about some hollywood guy who's not really powerful
who pushed his girlfriend's head down because she wasn't going far enough down on him and
that's not good that's jerky and weird and i don't support it that's the big news though
is a guy a little rough with his girlfriend instead of people raping little girls
that they grabbed and drug and there's always women that provide the little girls that so
they feel safe so there's a woman there so no one would ever believe anything happened because
there's a woman there and wonder what type of women are there i think we know what type
they're the big mavens of hollywood they're the scum they're the enemy they're the curse
they're the problem
oh there's one now
um these people are sick and you have to understand they don't just want to abuse
women or men or anybody they want power they want to mess with people they want to kick
your pregnant wife down the stairs and have her have a miscarriage and have it done in your place
with your people so that everybody can say that alex shows did it but i made a decision that even
though that was 16 years ago i'm not normally a vengeful person i move forward but i decided
just right in my heart now to come after you and so i am starting next week
oh yeah people like me tell you we're coming and we walk into traps so that's what this is all about
you operate the dark i operate the light and we'll see how you do when i drag your ass out in the
light because you're never gonna get away with what you've done all the things you've engaged in and
i think the fall of that piece of crap war he has worshiped in hollywood not because his film is
the very worst produced ever and they're just sophistic crap but because he's a degenerate filthy
scumbag and i think it's time we have people on to talk about clinton tarantino
because you guys didn't pick that report up i put out this week so now now we're gonna release more
coming for you coming for you
you want to walk over like a jack-o-lantern head demon and throw your way around that's fine
but what came next wasn't good and so i'd suppress that and now remember now i see the stars aligning
the real stars not the false your demise politically we'll be back stay with us
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com
top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new supercharged brain force plus and
fill the rest without the crash brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural
activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit
extracts that gives you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological
tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of
mind it's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
the stock market is now 600 points down with an hour until close we'll cover it all
but first obama's muslim brotherhood buddy's in trouble
tarik ramadan a french swiss muslim academic and a professor of contemporary islamic studies
at oxford has been denied bail as france 24 reports a french judge decided on tuesday to
keep prominent islamic scholar tarik ramadan in detention four days after he was handed
preliminary rape charges in cases brought by two women who had sought his counsel this is the same
sharia scholar praised by barack obama he was elected by time magazine in 2000 as one of the
seven religious innovators of the 21st century and by foreign policy readers as one of the top
hundred most global thinkers ramadan describes himself as a salafi reformist essentially an
advocate of sharia law how many times have you heard this islam just needs a reform well
why does it need a reform well then it would be nicer without that jihad business look
you ever noticed i think about these reformer people they're apologists for islam or they're
a member of an insignificant group of muslims they just simply don't count karan is perfect
syria is perfect hendith is perfect you can't reform them the doctrine is systemic it's not
just a little bit tweak here or there there's no body of authority that can improve any changes
you make and then it's not broken why fix it so these are the reasons that islam cannot be
reformed i don't care how nice the person is who says it can be ramadan has long been criticized
as an adept of takia the muslim practice of lying to non-believers to further sharia falling in
love dancing all of these offend them and violence to all this is their usual response calling for
civility censorship silence or respect for the offended is merely heeding the islamist demand
for blasphemy laws at the expense of dissenters mr ramadan says he is not charlie or paris
instead he says he is the those who are under investigation but most importantly ramadan
is the grandson of hasan albana the founder of the muslim brotherhood after the state
department had used the patriot act to bar ramadan from the united states for six years
in 2010 ramadan was granted a visa by none other than an overseer of the arab spring
secretary of state hillary clinton that same year he was a keynote speaker for the council of
american and islamic relations in 2015 michelle malkin writing for the new york post wrote
reminder the feds designated care an unindicted terror co-conspirator in 2007 in the prosecution
of the holy land foundation and others for providing support to humas jihadist over the
alleged objections of dallas area federal prosecutors the obama justice department
senior political appointees declined to press terror financing charges against care co-founder
omar amad i've come here to cairo to seek a new beginning between the united states and muslims
around the world one based on mutual interest and mutual respect and one based upon the truth
that america and islam are not exclusive and need not be in competition instead they overlap
and share common principles principles of justice and progress tolerance and the dignity
of all human beings and now as it seems with many of those praised by the left to rick ramadan faces
sexual assault and rape charges according to france 24 one of the four victims two of which
are alleging rape against ramadan henda ayari attested that to her to rick ramadan believes
that either you wear a veil or you get raped ayari said her resistance was met with violence and
spoke of her trauma after the incident and how ramadan sought to stay in touch with her allegedly
the scholar told ayari she did not know how to take care of a man and that we'll have to learn
ayari alleges that ramadan wanted her to be a sex slave and that he would pay for her journeys to
paris after she refused to meet him again she said he threatened to attack her children but to
wreak ramadan has brushed off the accusations claiming that they were a campaign of slander
clearly orchestrated by his longtime adversaries adding to the chaos isis recently released a
video depicting a major attack on paris declaring the conquering of paris before rome to rick ramadan
a respected voice amongst muslims throughout europe is allegedly nothing less than what we
can expect of the heir apparent to the muslim brotherhood network leading a seemingly unstoppable
hezra into the heart of europe john bound reporting for info wars dot com we'll be back on the other side
i want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at info wars store dot com
and this is basically a product that i've been taking anyway before we even launched our own
version of it now the product is bodies whole body support this is available right now at a
massive 50 discount at info wars store dot com it's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory
support product on the market it's got the black pepper which makes for optimal absorption to help
boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
now we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically proven
to have so i've just got this fresh today literally the seals not even being opened on it it's just
29 95 again big big chunky bottle 120 capsules in this bottle it is bodies the ultimate turmeric
and inflammatory support product on the market available right now at info wars store dot com
get it today we've got it we're on corruption all right it's alex jones coming to you live
from the front lines of the info war i have a tendency to get into the forest instead of
just describing it as a forest. I have a tendency to start getting into long
historical diet thrives and giving evidentiary information out.
Instead of just being Paul Revere, one is by land to it by sea
and here come the Redcoats. So he starts riding down the road saying the
Redcoats there. He didn't say I was there and I saw him
landing and they were on their horses and they had troops marching with
weapons and they had red uniforms with gold buttons and I saw the general
behind him at least 10,000. He said to arms to arms
the Redcoats have landed. The British are here.
Why can't I just say that?
Because they will then take what I say and twist it.
I'm going to say this up front and they're going to ignore it
and they're going to lie about what I'm saying because they don't want you to
see it but I know you as an audience see it but I'm
talking about the general public.
It's in the white papers, it's in the text, now they're saying in the news
that in the 50s and 60s the the decision was made that there was over
population. They were going to adopt eugenics-based
ideas of chemicals in the food in the water to lower fertility
and to lower IQ to make the general public more manageable
and that's in eco science written by the White House Science, Zara, Obama,
Holdren in 1974. He wrote that he was trying to start decades later.
See I'm already getting into the evidence instead of just giving you the
general announcement then I can get into the evidence and you can research the
evidence for yourself because don't you want to research the evidence which is
bigger than I can even describe, bigger than I even know. There's always
endless reams of evidence. It's so gargantuan
that it's like standing
on Kona, the big island in Hawaii, beautiful island chain, most remote in
the world and saying prove to me there's a Pacific Ocean
and I just look at you and I say well I was brought up in the 20th century and
the 21st century and we have satellites and I flew here and it's real and it
exists and we call it Pacific Ocean. Here's the history of it and it's the
largest ocean of 76 percent of our land mass covered by salt
water, 1 percent fresh water not counting aquifers, 2 percent
below ground and aggregate scans may have been 5 percent saying total
really the earth is covered almost 82 percent by water and geographical
coverage on the surface land mass but if you actually look at it like the
skin of an apple it's it's it's it's the whole atmosphere in our entire
ecosystem is only a very thin small area that we
cohabitate upon on this third rock out from the standard
yellow sun two-thirds the way out on the spiral arm and look away galaxy
in deep space. I mean again knowledge is just endless you can
always blast out from any point and have unbelievable
compendiums and reams of information but here's the bottom line
there is a biological cultural mathematical systematic attack
to make having children and to make having families and to make building
human societies and cultures impossible
from the taxes the regulations to the work weeks to the travel to the
chemicals and the biologicals to the propaganda to the
medicalized tyranny to the brainwashing to
start out with don't say the n-word sounds totally reasonable
I don't say it was brought about to say it because I'm a good guy I had to look
down on somebody to feel big
a lot of folks you're looking down on are better than you at many things
so why would I join that culture and then it's
we're gonna ban nazis well I don't like nazis
well now you're a nazi oh I'm banned now you just called me one didn't matter
I'm not see how it works so the FCC has let's seven eight
words you're not supposed to say on radio and tv it was broadcast
but then the word training
which was created 20 something years ago by people in that community
that want to identify as women and like men like women you name it and want to
do that do I hate those people absolutely not did I ever say I hated them no
and it's not like they beat me over the head till I said I wasn't against it
uh it's a lot of a destructive lifestyle heavy suicide big problems
but I'm not even judging those people who are human beings I don't hate them I
don't need to feel like they're bad and they have problems and I'm this big
moral guy when I certainly am not perfect let me tell you
I'm probably more wicked than they are in some respects if you see that as wicked
but you look at the that word we got a call last year we
recorded the vice president and Facebook Twitter and they said listen
you can stay on but there's one thing we're gonna put this report out soon
there's one thing you can't say and that's training
now there's so much to that and I said well that's a term created by that
community well Facebook and Twitter
judged in 2017 that's a hate word so it's gone see and once you accept that
you can't say the new n word then it's another word
and another word but but but what why did they choose that word because
it's trans it has nothing to do with men that
want to be women or women that want to be men and and and all the rest of it
it's once they get you
yeah they called the police on people that said training on the radio that's
that's the daily caller they arrest you in california if you say that
once they say that now transhumanism if you study eugenics
in 1949 they voted at the world eugenics society to call themselves transhumanist
because Hitler and their funding of Hitler had made it look bad so julian
obviously brother all is actually all that great new world stuff right about
the early 30s they said how did you know this well it's the plan
now you see it happening his brother said we've been embarrassed so now we're
going to be transhumanists we're going to improve humans well that's your right
if you think it's improvement but what it means is take control
governmentally of human development through chemicals through biologicals
through culture through brainwashing through media through education
okay this is all their own admission this isn't my opinion
this is them remember saying all this you're a radio listener the cruise is
randomly searching when i say it just finding articles that say it but it
enough because it's them saying it so once they get you to say hey
don't even say a word that has to be with transitional
don't even discuss human evolution whether it's self-directed that's a very
human trait is to self-direct what you want to be your
environment who you want to be how long you want to live what you want to do
it is a very human thing to be a man and to say i want to be a woman or to be a
woman and say i want to be a man i'm not saying
that's the the human thing or a good human thing i'm saying it's very human
to say i want to be something different i want to build something i want to
change myself i want to that's that's what we do we control our
environment with the only species that does it
and whatever we envision we can end up building
but once they get you to accept that then they can go into the schools they can
tell your children you confuse their sex they can
brainwash them for an agenda where they want to be 50 different things and i
made the point there's these shows on history and discovery i didn't watch
much tv and i see people who love their cars and marry them
this woman loves her blender and i'm like that's just crazy
it's a fetish it's weird whatever i don't hate that person
now they're spreading disease having sex with the vfw his tailpipe
and the headline is alex jones says gay men are going to rape your car
all over the news didn't say that let's see once they say don't criticize gay men
don't criticize trans then they could say don't
criticize people that have four parents and aren't really people
because they're not they're something new don't say you're a person see
there's another key to understand all this take
zoological experiments take how humans have rights animals have rights but all
these transhuman zoological experiments they have declassified
they've done for 40 years they declassified it 20 years ago
that they've done it 20 years before so 40 years of human animal hybrids human
human hybrids you know five uh genetics of men women all of it it's
been artificially made
artificially made and now if you discuss that it's artificially
made or what is it or does it have rights you're done you're gone you're bad
you're a hate monger and that's why this is a critical area they said how do we
get them to accept men becoming women men become women becoming men
because once they do that they'll accept the brain chips all of it
splicing with animals people that really aren't people humanoids
and then that's it this is it this is the total
mainlining of in the humanities we know it and it's being forced directed at
our children it's not a choice to become
something new it's being forced are you happy washing your hands with harsh
chemicals are you happy doing laundry with detergents
are you happy paying high prices find your happiness with pure soap
these all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've
ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 months
to plot or get items individually and still save big
you're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now
earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best
happiness is five-star soap.com why not put your money
up the drain for a change see them at five-star soap.com
or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save you
thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps
that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils
see their full selection of soaps at five-star soap.com
that's F-I-V-E star soap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog
fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut
presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store some
awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life
nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated
ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve
lifesaving ready to eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon
ships free at fullycookedbacon.com fullycookedbacon.com
hear that that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves
ransacked the place and what they don't steal will be destroyed
this year resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in
go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone
inside is watching tv even when you're miles away
security is a mindset and fake tv should be part of your security solution
be vigilant but not fearful fake tv.com
climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power
by info wars life for those who want to increase testosterone and energy levels
most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline
starting around 30 at a rate of about one to two percent per year
this drop can show signs such as fatigue low energy low sex drive and muscle
loss alpha power is packed with some of the
most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market
the secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients
that have been concentrated into their most potent forms
including uricoma longifolia originally from malaysia
makaroo from peru horny goatweed from china and
tribulus from india reach your alpha male potential
with alpha power get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today
support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free
products info wars life brings you a revolutionary
toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful
clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint
oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health
our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since
aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of
other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health
benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash and
toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue
fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health
routine at infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
alex jones here back live there is a blitzkrieg taking place against the
human condition we're being put into an artificial
construct for control for reverse engineering and then for
extermination that is the admissions of the globalist
elon muskis warned you that they worship ai gods they believe are about to
show up on the scene who demands humanity be exterminated first
now that said let me quantify this
the whole trans movement has nothing to do with
homosexual men it has nothing to do with
trans people it has to do with attacking language
saying you will not call someone heterosexual or homosexual
the very debate about someone's chromosomes and biological preset is
illegal
so now he was a gay lad it was a gay day that language is expropriated
from homosexual to gay just like no one will say
cockazoid caucus mountains has nothing to do
with saying bad things about white people or they want to change the name of
negro medello it means black beer
you can't use the scientific name for black people
has nothing to do with saying they're bad because it has an in on the front of
it so once you can't use the n-word now you can't use
in
i remember in middle school people get upset because they were doing geography
and saying this is niger niger sounds like the n-word you see the
mental illness and the globalist psychologists are running this and they
want to reduce world population
so the taba stock institute in the 60s this is public
we're very proud of it developed the plan for trans nation trans world
and once you say to children in the fifth grade starting but now in the
first grade you're a girl you could be a boy
you're a boy you could be a girl soon then it's you can't say boy or girl
because someone else might not be that it hurts them so what is the key
this whole trans movement is about outlawing science it's about outlawing
male and female chromosomes that is absolute scientific fact and then
scientists come out like jordan peterson in canada
and says listen i don't hate you if you want to be something else
but you biologically were born as this
and now google executives it's come out in lawsuits and they admit this
get in front of a whole amphitheater of people last year
and say i am a golden dragon it a female dragon
i'm an expansive building i have yellow scales
everyone goes you are a dragon i you have expensive building
and that's a cult programmer if a google executive said i'm god they say you're
a cult leader but if you chant i am a golden dragon it
they are making you say two plus two equals five
they are making you with all these articles like they'll have hundreds of
articles a week like jones is insane he claims there's only two sexes he claims
it's chromosomal he claims families existed and they just
attacked him he's insane he's crazy they're nuts they're nuts it's a it's a
gas lining of you not of me
so that you give in to that and then the sky's the limit
and then there's scientific psychological warfare technicians
who are going to go in when people in the trans community have the highest
level of suicide of any group in the world worse than veterans farmers
gay men any of it
they have been captured they have been confused they are being abused they are
being hurt and they're sucked into a very dangerous
underworld of people that want to abuse them
almost every quote trans person is a escort who has to have sex with dozens
of people a day and they end up killing themselves that's a fact and then the
left covers that up doesn't want to discuss that
because they're using these people just like hollywood does
just like quentin tarantino says sex with children is a bad thing if it's
consensual he defends robert polanski because
they're pigs and they want to lower barriers of families and any definition
because now people that have been you know had pled guilty to raping little
eight-year-old six-year-old girls in illinois just a few weeks ago said i
identify as a child and the court's looking at it saying maybe it's legal
can children have sex with each other and so if you're a 40-something-year-old man
you know raping a six-year-old girl just say you're a little boy and it's okay
you see it's all semantical games and then once you let them play games and
tell a professor that he can't say to his students listen
i'm not against homosexuals or heterosexuals but
using the term heterosexual or homosexuals is science
homo genius just means within your group you're a male you're with a male you're
a woman you're the woman it has nothing to do with a judgment
but it becomes this whole idea to make people victims and now you must accept
every form of trans including i want to put drain oh in my eyes i'm blind and
the national health service says yes hundreds of people a year it's growing
to thousands they project well are blinded
and the psychologist pours the drain oh in lovingly it's not abuse
so you're not abusing a menly old person you're loving them and now the state
pays and they're blind because they identify as a purple penguin
it's it's it's it's the it's the deep space
it's humans make this up sounds like a science fiction book
who would come up with something like this to convince us to commit genetic
suicide and i've got the articles i haven't gotten
to yet where they say oh trans is good lower population actually oh who would
have thought of that oh who would have oh it's so good
you can't say you're a mother or father a boy or girl because that hurts someone
your identity as male or female you're okay dump drain on your eyes okay
chop your genitals off i'm not paying for it that's hate
and if you'll capitulate to that level of insanity you'll capitulate
to anything i am a golden dragon you are a golden dragon
you mentioned a cult movie like that i am a beautiful ornate building you are a
beautiful ornate building and that's their whole plan admitted
to end our species as you know it using these poor people as the victims
and you've got whole communities of abusers who are heterosexual and homosexual
feeding on these desperate mentally ill people and enjoying it let's go out to
break with mr. peterson the professor uh jordan peterson
on national channel four and the woman of speech let's hear this
cited freedom of speech in that why should your right to freedom of speech
trump a trans person's right not to be offended
because in order to be able to think you have to risk
being offensive i mean look at the conversation we're having right now
you know like you're certainly willing to risk offending me in the pursuit of
truth why should you have the right to do that
it's being rather uncomfortable well i'm i'm very glad i put you on the spot
well i'm very glad that you gave my point you get my point as like
you're you're doing what you should do which is digging a bit to see what the
hell's going on and that is what you should do but you're
exercising your freedom of speech to certainly risk offending me
and that's fine i think more power to you as far as i'm concerned
except you haven't sat there and i'm just right i'm just trying to work that out i
mean
this pure logic ha gotcha they are given that information they are told to go
with it but they can hit us and they have a bike
blocks attack us lay down in front of military parades everything but we don't
have speech see they're saying we're not human because we're human but if you
identify as not human you suddenly have all these
rights that sounds like an alien invasion program to me
everyone but humans has rights
the answer to being in control of your own health care is
freedom from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients
that come together to share in each other's medical expenses
individual share amounts begin at one hundred seven dollars a month
and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs
holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing see guidelines
discount programs available for dental vision and pharmacy
go to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you
need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and
other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right
and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted
name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive
five percent off ceramic filter systems using code GCN
call or click 1-877-99 burky or bigburkywaterfilters.com
that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at
optimum levels up optimum levels with our modern diets it
can be hard to get the recommended amount of b vitamins we need every day
up up up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day
secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin b12 for optimal absorption
up up up up optimal absorption being deficient in b vitamins can cause
fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy
secret 12 up up up up optimal absorption b vitamins
help the body convert food into energy by supporting your
intercellular processes b vitamins are also essential for the
optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up up up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b12
intake head to infowarslife.com and support
optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's infowarslife.com
infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
we have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing this is pollen blood in the 1960s researchers in France
noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms
experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like running
nose itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production
they began studying the effects in public trials in their public trials
now we are introducing the fruit of the research of fast-acting chewable tablet
just two two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes
to help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe naturally with
fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll three triple eight two five three three one three nine
mycozx is back and just like we're game changing when it comes to politics
when it comes to the economy we're game changing on supplements
i want to bring you products from the best research out there
from the best labs the best laboratories the best scientists
that really change lives because i want you to get a great effect i want you to
have a great life be healthy i want you to see the results
so you reorder it and tell your friends and family about it
you tell your fungus is a scourge molds a scourge and you can't battle it
with this in your sinus or other areas but in your gut the main area you can
mycozx available exclusively been out for over six months at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free triple eight two five three three one three nine
ladies and gentlemen i only bring you products i use myself
i only bring you products that have been proven have dynamite effects
mycozx is back in stock right now at infowarslife.com secure yours today
you're listening to the alex jones show
i wish your buck was still silver
i wish your buck was still silver it was back when the country was wrong
back before elvis
back before elvis and before vietnam war came along
it's not me the best moral hacker song
before the Beatles and yesterday
what a man when a man could still work still would
but the best time is behind us now
stop heading downhill
by the end he says stop rolling downhill like a snowball headed for hell
it's so scientific it's so complete and it's admitted by the taba stock institute
looking up on their own website they're very proud of it
they've got it where they're teaching three-year-old boys their girls and vice versa in the uk now
and how much they love women and women's culture and women's women don't need men
and women women women we're the state we're the psych warfare chiefs come to us you could
spiritually see them you're like being sucked in by the monster from
stranger things i mean it's it's it's it's that spiritually big black spider it's how i describe it
and it's incredibly abusive camille paglia it says he teaching five-year-olds that they're
another sex we don't know what that means is child abuse well you know she's been out of favor
for 30 years because she's not a self-destructive person she talks about these decadent cycles
but the globalists have taken decadent cycles and codified it into a religion
so jordan peterson you know i covered him last year when this happened and right through it but
now they try to keep him off tv and all he says is we have two sets of chromosomes where men and
women and women have a whole another set of chromosomes and the and in mammal species but
in other species there's a male and there's a female and they have articles here where professors
and others are scolded for playing jordan peterson video in class because neutrally playing a speech
by hitler is what they compared it to and all he is is a professor a psychologist saying no there are
men and women and that's what they're doing they're saying to say men and women exist is a hate crime
in california passed the law that if you don't use pronouns what if i'm not good at english
gz different it's like a joke i made five months ago or three months ago it was like lbgq dlz abcdq
fgwx imz you know one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirty four
i said when is it gonna be this big long thing and sure enough they've come out with some new
long thing just like i said and said you better know this it's a cult of bullying crazies who aren't
guys that like guys or women that like women it has nothing to do with that they take our
natural openness of the west and we're like okay yeah okay whatever you're into and as long as you
don't mess with me do what you want and now it's bestiality it's it's everything else and it's
all a bunch of quentin tarantino's on howard stern saying you know little girl is 13 wants to have
sex with a 40 year old man it's okay and howard stern says he drugged her and quinter's alia
even howard stern said man that's evil because it is because you want 50 year old men 60 year
old men courting at your house for your five-year-old i'm here to see a little jenny
and then the left gets in line with whatever the new cult thing is to genia fleckton and virtue
signal so you you you walk into target it's an image of a little girl's butt sticking out very
pedophilic and it says it's trans baby feminist baby we got it back there it was in i left it
like the producer's office back there somewhere back in back in the radio office and you see it
it's everywhere and it's like people that are just in to degeneracy and listen if adults
want to do degenerate things that's your issue don't do it to children because here's the thing
i wrote a bicycle and i've been around a block
and i could have had sex with the most beautiful women in hollywood and i never did it you know why
every time they didn't have a soul i couldn't get attracted to them because it was all fake
and all the rest of it and let me tell you something these people have no souls they're
not happy unless they're doing bad stuff there it is feminist baby right here okay
and you open it up it's a baby stick and it's butt out you know i went into a pizza place
and there was a young man who told me that he was a
uh drag queen and my wife and i were in there a couple months ago and he said do you hate me
because i'm a drag queen and i and i said no i really don't but i said uh i said well i saw
that video you put out about millie weaver about the uh about the drag queen festival here in austin
the hotel and i said yeah where you had two-year-old and three-year-old kids with men pole dancing
shaking their ass in their face and little kids giving them money i said as a heterosexual i i don't
even go to strip bars but i've been to them obviously in my life in college i said i would never
sit there and bring my three-year-old to a strip bar they wouldn't let them in to begin with
to go up and stick money in the panty line of a woman or a man and the individual was so jacked up
on the spiritual thing of being a woman and being into that and we embryonicly began as women
that they weren't even listening they was like a spirit it was just completely caught up in it and
i said i got the video that's obscene and he and he is just a man he goes well i hear you
but i know all the top drag queens and started naming i'm like he was naming to me the names of gods
and see that's what this is is this is people who know we're an open tolerant society who
aren't happy and nothing ever delivers them to make them happy so they're telling us like a cult
you're gonna worship jim jones that that's really what it was because i said i don't hate you as a
person and i've been around the block probably more than you've been around the block and i'm
telling you where you're going is destructive and i care about you and it's like i don't care
i know you don't hate me but you're not going to stop us and my wife was basically just shaking her
head and then i got the well i'm eating the pizza was strutting around in front of us business
and it's just like those lesbian women that time when shane steiner strongest guy i know
know can bench press 400 pounds like 30 times okay and he's not even big he's solid muscle
jiu-jitsu all day long i'm in the main event bowling and and it was like for family bowling
and pool and and video games and there's these 100 pound lesbians and i don't mad they're women
like i'm not attacking them it was their lesbians and they got duck sass haircuts like james dean
and they got cigarette packs over their arm and we're trying to pull and they're over their
hitting on his wife you know saying things to her right in front of us like we don't exist
you got some guy that'll tear your arm out of your socket you got me i mean i'm not a pushover
and there's these 100 pound women pretending to be men and trying to muscle in on his beauty queen
wife and she just said this is a joke she's laughing at him and we left that's what i'm saying
it's an act of dominance if you if you're around this stuff you realize they're like oh we get
you're not against us we're taking over and you're like okay uh and we could take on 500 of you in
physical combat let's see that that isn't what matters they've got the media and they've got our
goodwill and they're gonna program us all they want is for us to submit to them and it's whatever
they're being programmed by it'll change next week it's all centralized
efficiency then they start producing reactive oxygen species top scientists agree that aging
is most likely caused by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species the antioxidants
found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market the stronger the antioxidant
the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals
boost protect and adapt with cell force from info wars life head to info wars life dot com
or call 1-888-253-3139 you know i've got some talking points here about caveman from info wars
life dot com but instead of going with those talking points let me just give you what i've
experienced personally from all the wives tales in every culture we know that the bones have the
essence we know chicken noodle soup it's great for people that are sick again in every culture
this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is
but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force
that is in this is incredible ladies and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your
arteries and your veins whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and
gentlemen is the strongest most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing
find out for yourself today at info wars store dot com what it could do for your family
and again i want to thank you all for your support you are funding the information war in 2018
i want to plow into all of this but i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store
dot com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for
children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal
silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands
against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we
know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
dot a group you developed living defense for us it took you over a year to do it why is this so
good because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most
i mean i try to make sure that i don't put tops in some food and water and beverages in my system
but right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body that
lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees uh spreading disease around we
have biological warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about that
all the stuff i said there's so many things that are in it you have the neem in there you have the
organic clove bud the organic wormwood i recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year
all right well i'm glad we've got some back in because i'm going back on it today it just came
back in yesterday living defense info wars life dot com and folks you can't lose it's full of stuff
that's great for your body period and uh you support the broadcast info wars life dot com thank
you dr group from the global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great
product you're listening to the alex jones show
just some good old boys show just a good old boy never meaning no harm never meaning no harm
me told you never saw any trouble with the law since the day they was born
straight in the curve yeah
blind in the head the best part is someday the mountain might get up with the law never
will
that's just a little bit more the download need to lose close to 8 000 points to erase the last 14
months gains but it has close to gone down 2000 points this week it's a 24 000 without jones industrial
average comma 0 56.58 down 836 juicy points and the federal reserve swore last friday they were
going to raise rates this year three times and they haven't done it never did that to obama in
eight years but they're doing it now you know our real wealth is our genetic wealth our real wealth
is our family wealth our real wealth is our connection to god and i and i've wanted to root
the stock market i wanted to root the new jobs trump's doing a yeoman's job working hours that i at
44 couldn't work that he does at 71 a true titan you know most men don't want to honor other men
and their strength but trump's strength is our strength he's totally real my spirit knows it
and the evidence shows it doesn't it so this is a big time right now
and they know trump's weakness is that he wants us to win he wants to show the win he wants to
prove he's real he's very dog-like second he's like a
oh what's the famous dogs will kill themselves going out of snow for days st bernard
and st bernard i don't mean that as an insult to be connected to a dog they say
someone's dogged dog like it's one of the highest compliments there is
and uh what really matters is they don't get your children they don't get you
russia has been under incredible sanctions for 15 years not going long and that made them stronger
so i want to go these routes to try to bypass this and you know fix it and turn it back on and
take care of the people and everything but whoever said america deserved all that because
the fact that we've gotten so much delivered to us in one year and trump's approval rating's
not at 75 shows where we minded oh but i just heard a car wreck sound we're a record skipping
they had a whole index of polls last week
that showed trump was at 70 to 79 points in scientific polls
they're doing nine to 15 point more samples for democrats i don't even know how that's
90% support
he broke their back with that speech we broke their back you broke their back
they're bullying all their scientific evil we broke their back with god's help
and just like clockwork like i said last friday i said they're gonna raise those
rates we can see it plunge next week that was rocket science man
it's just looking at the facts
the globalists have bet everything on communist china because it's evil it's oppressive
it's dominating it's totally outlawed christianity they didn't do that under mal
this year they announced it's all banned after the pope said to all the catholic priests give
all your information over to the government he helped them roll them up i mean what an antichrist
so this is an epic time to be alive right now you're gonna see who's who i just prayed to god
to strengthen me because even the elect could be deceived that what's coming in the next few years
the next decade the next i got a gut feel the next 20 30 years this is gonna be pretty much
wrapped up don't you yeah 20 30 years that's the length of this age that's the overhang of the old
era and then the whole new era not the establishment new age everything they have is a counterfeit
there is a real new age with jesus christ at the head of it and if you read what's in revelation
and don't know that was a divine warning so that you'd hopefully listen because you have free will
god gives you free will but we're god's children and then god feels i don't want to say guilty but
has a mastery of logic you're gonna be given free will but you're going to be given warnings
because god loves you just like you love a plant in your house or you love your dog or you love
your child even more god loves a sparrow more than you can imagine as the bible says imagine how much
god loves you god made you in his mind but because god loves you so much you've been given free will
as a true sentient being with unlimited potential in the spot time space continuum not through
yourself but through the species and when you realize you're an individual but you are a collective
not a collective put on an individual you are an individual who creates a collective
which is called teamwork it is the fusion of individualism with the collective is the magic
the true fusion of the human experience and everything the enemy does is to sabotage that
innate power and try to shackle it show that fallen individuals under the dominion of the
fallen one take a look where we're at yeah yeah exactly deep space the fallen one that's all there
trying to sabotage an amazing thing that's happening you don't just think god creates
something beautiful and magic like this with all its potential that we can't even imagine
and then there aren't bad things because of free will in the universe they can't mess with god
but can try to infest one of the eggs but that's the big joke god sits back and says
you're going to test that and it's got free will so that the argument that god is a sadist
from some i could see but reality is about struggle true sadism is creating robots unconscious
things that don't matter this is the great will and the fact that god will put us in the bacon
grease is a blessing we all know animals that are fed at the park become unhappy bloated and corrupt
those that defend themselves are beautiful look at the falcon and the tree and you wonder how
can something be so beautiful and so majestic it's so incredible because it's born out of pure
simplistic beauty and complexity unfathomed because the simplicity is the complexity and then you
stare upon it and then you look at some diseased fat japanese monkey that everybody feeds they
can hardly walk by the hot pool it sits in and it's a mean and throws crap at the visitors that feed
it they give it all the food it weighs 200 pounds it should weigh 100 pounds and the visitors come
to give it food it throws crap at them and utters gibbering curse words
god has given us the gift the fire of promethean consciousness it all lays out before us
all right i got so into the news today i didn't plug in the last hour and barely plugged them
before and i am my own worst enemy but you put up with me and that's what matters we've got a
bunch of big cells that are ending and if you choose to keep wrecking the globalists and wreaking
havoc against their satanic operations then you will bleed you will breathe incredible fire and
and and life into what we're doing by believing in what we're doing uh and i i just go out and say
what's the best selling supplements out there how do i make them even better than how do i
discount them it current is a 30 day liver and kidney cleanse and it is all the known natural
compounds that absolutely aid your body in doing things the globalists hope you don't do so find
about echo and our latest product 50 off out of the gates we also have bodies which is the is the
ultimate turmeric formula 400 plus milligrams are the strongest concentrate leading competitors are
like three percent we're 95 and by the way we may have to go bottle by bottle in the testing we
may have to lower it if we can't get it we got a 95 we went with it nobody ever got that so it is
the best turmeric out there with all the other stuff that supports it bodies that sells about
to 50% off and we've launched a fortified supply again about a year plus ago they banned us off
google ads and much of the platforms and i said let's create a stealth website it's high quality
shopping cart and not say it's us and then now that it's done and ready i just said you know i'm
it's not a deception because it is an affiliate another corporation i set up but i'm not going
to do it i'm going to try to get advertising on google everywhere else and let them ban me and
then i then that's the lawsuit lawyers have decided we're gonna do i'm picked i'm letting
them know i'm coming so hopefully they just back off and stop by like my free speech i don't want
to do this but fortified supply everything it's on there it's amazing new site highest quality
best technology best cyber security all of it and that gives me even more shopping carts to attack
whenever they launch those monthly attacks or whatever air and water filters bug out bags
privacy security stock file it's all there fortified supply dot com but know this whether
it's it's got a bunch of special 50% off on our true way oh i love that song that's a good song
deal with this ain't no valley ain't no valley low enough ain't no river wide enough to keep me
from getting to you warren's coming up introducing floor life the new probiotic line developed
exclusively by info wars life after years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics
are made the same floor life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses
the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical
because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic
then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet floor life supports your body's core where
you need it most including digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism did you
know that over 80 of your immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing gut
probiotic levels is so important for overall health floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic
for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program head to info wars life dot com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today
that's info wars life dot com please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three
things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war
a 360 win number one when you choose autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order
at info warshore dot com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you
sign up for autoship because we hold back a surplus for autoship customers number three
we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this
for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month
just go to info warshore dot com select your favorite product or products click on autoship
and choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term 360
win and with the new autoship feature at info wars life dot com this is a sure win 10 off on
autoship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all
out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for autoship
you're listening to the alex jones show
