You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are broadcasting worldwide on this Wednesday, the 14th of day.
Of February 2018 Valentine's Day.
And if you're a TV viewer and I have my little Valentine to all of you, that I've decided to tweet out here in the next 10, 15 minutes at real Alex Jones. Document cam shot please.
And it's got President Trump at a tuxedo pointing his finger saying, I want you on my side of the wall.
Isn't that just sweet?
That reminds me of one of the blaze chicklets named Ali, one of the teleprompter readers, but she says some decent stuff over there.
And I noticed that she has this whole thing, as I was sent this by one of my crew members this morning, about how I'm going to say something really radical and that something you're not supposed to say, but we should celebrate, you know, male masculinity and it's something we need.
I'm so sick of everybody carping to Hollywood and the mental patient facilities that are in control of the universities and other areas.
And then we respond to it like we're radical standing up against it. They're the radicals. And Tucker Carlson totally and completely gets this.
He came out and said, why is CNN, this is something I pointed out many times, why is it cause me to make this point yesterday and he made it last night.
Not like we're plagiarizing each other. We're in the zeitgeist.
Why are CNN and all the train stations and all the airports because they pay to be there.
And that's why the crappiest food that nobody else wants to eat anymore, except I guess the president, he's throwback in a good way.
McDonald's is all you can find. A lot of these road stops that are in the middle of the highway in places like Oklahoma and Kansas and other areas from back from the time that they walled off the exits to the little towns.
I guess they couldn't pay the state off or whatever. That's how that worked.
And they would have just maybe one restaurant, one gas station every 50 miles in the middle of the highway.
And they have this in West Virginia too. People are paying a big amount of money to shut off competition.
And politicians are getting money to do that. It's the same thing. There's nothing more uncool than what your force fed.
And so it's illustrated with how they're trying to look like they're the establishment. They're trying to look like they are the standard.
But it'd be like the old Soviet Union in the 1970s, picking up a copy of problem going, oh look, it's on all the newsstands because it's being shoveled at you.
And I know the listeners and audience get this, but people like this Ally chick, who I guess like a year ago, we invited on the show once,
she said, oh, I wouldn't be involved with you. I was already going to come on here and make that point today.
When I gave them the clip, they said, oh, that's kind of a teleprompter reading person that, you know, thinks they're above InfoWars.
And I said, that's the point I'm even going to make without even knowing who she is. I could watch it. Didn't even know she was.
They were just trying to set her up for the show. I was going to make the point that this is the, this is why we may not win the fight because we're here like, oh my gosh, they said families are bad.
But hey, we're radical. We're saying they're okay. No, they're the radicals. That's totally cult like have the New York Times, the Washington Post, CNN all yesterday.
It's all a talking point. Say best friends are bad. Families are bad. They're now admitting their plan, but saying it authoritatively, like we're supposed to grovel and say, oh, you're right.
Stop your men's spreading. Stop your, it's ridiculous. Ignore all of it. Who cares what these people think? Who cares about their bullying?
I wouldn't be as successful if I was if all these other people that have come and gone figured out people want authenticity and being real and being hardcore and being genuine.
So thank God, I guess in the competition of media that all these ding-dings like Glenn Beck, who's failing in his minions, don't even get what America wants. They bet on Hillary Clinton.
Because I want you to get a great effect. I want you to have a great life, be healthy. I want you to see the results, so you reorder it and tell your friends and family about it.
You say a fungus is a scourge, molds a scourge, and you can't battle it with this in your sinus or other areas, but in your gut, the main area you can.
Michael ZX, available exclusively. Been out for over six months at m4ishlife.com, or by calling toll-free, triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9. Ladies and gentlemen, I only bring you products I use myself.
I only bring you products that have been proven, that have dynamite effects. Michael ZX is back in stock right now at m4ishlife.com. Secure yours today.
There is a point that I don't make enough here before I get into all the masses of critical and, quite frankly, earth-shaking, riveting information.
And it's that so many people want to be part of the establishment. They want to be at the coolest part of the country club. They want to have the biggest house on the hill.
They want to be part of the coolest organizations. They want to walk the red carpet.
And it's a whole cottage industry in every town and city to have little red carpets and little award ceremonies and little events where people go fawning, wanting to feel like they've arrived in the cool part of society.
And that's a natural function of humanity, and it's good to honor people for serious things they've done, like graduating or donating to the poor or inventing vital things.
But it's become an artificiality that's used to control us and direct us by the system celebrating these grand faloons to quote a famous literary genius.
They've become these big, ridiculous things that are meant to just be advertising to celebrate our own enslavement and to make us enjoy being part of the whole servitude-based system that Kurt Vonnegut and others wrote so eloquently against on what I'd call the true left.
The modern left is the exact opposite of what the left under Thomas Jefferson or somebody like Kurt Vonnegut would actually be.
So again, all these terms are interchangeable and completely twisted.
But what we must do is scientifically and empirically study the real political systems of the world and then develop our own terms for them.
I began calling things about 18 years ago neofutalistic fascism.
And now you see that term is in popular use, even in university published papers, and I see it everywhere, that the globalists have set up a new form of neofutalism, a new form of corporate colonialism, another term I've used, coined, over the population of the entire globe.
They exploit the third world and then weaponize them politically with globalist prepackaged propaganda for their area to then make them hate the west, make them want to invade the west, and then have incentives for them to invade the west, free housing, healthcare, you name it,
to then use them as the new subgroup to drive down wages, drive cultural divides, and then bring in a large police state to protect the indigenous population from the new client state group that has been brought in to be a state within a state.
This is all part of the destabilization program of any successful upwardly mobile culture because that threatens the globalists. They have a breakaway civilization that is the only group allowed to be upwardly mobile and that to be an accelerated vertical integration towards the singularity for the elite, not the people.
So everything else must be sabotaged with the psychological warfare programs, with the computer algorithms, with the fast trading systems that game every system, turning what was casinos into absolute invincible frauds in the final equation.
Trump has attempted to sabotage that and direct that huge cornucopia of wealth, at least partially back at the people, and that has been the great crime that he has committed.
So that said, so many people want to tune into what they think is the establishment, and they want to tune into what is basically being aired in the airports.
And that's not cool. CNN is uncool all over the world. Their ratings have gone from low to basically not even existed, but they still pay large amounts of money to be in those government and corporate controlled facilities to have the look that they're ubiquitous.
They're the bottom line. They're they're the real news because they're the fake news. But I've seen Jack Tapper, when he attacked me just a few weeks ago, he said, info wars is a terrible and they look down at his notes, said terrible news organization.
He didn't want to say fake news because they first tried to launch that it blew up in their face. So you notice they'll have a satellite cutout or they'll cut out of Trump's speech, or they'll cut a congressman off if they say fake news because it damaged them so much and invokes memories of everything they've done.
And this is the key.
Just as Gruber said, thank God you don't have memories. Thank God you're so effing stupid. Thank God you have the memory of a goldfish and don't remember they were going to double in triple prices on you.
Thank God you're so stupid. Zuckerberg said that too. You're a bunch of dumb efforts.
Now, why do I raise that again?
Because if you have a memory of all the things they've done, and if we understand that the Russian narrative isn't just about trying to get Trump out of office or overthrowing that whole last election that was a true political realignment of the people of populism doesn't mean it's perfect.
It has all the answers. But if you can crush that real realignment and discredit it, you discredit the voters themselves and say they're idiots influenced by the Russians.
But more importantly, you change the subject of the fake polls and the rigged debates that all came out in WikiLeaks and the almost $3 billion that couldn't beat $500 million.
And the entire political and pundit and polling and political system knowing it's out. It failed. It's over. They've lost control. They're not worth working. They're not worth being hired.
They've got to go prove they can beat the American people back into submission. They've got to prove they can beat the Scots and the Brits back into submission with the Brexit.
They've got to prove they can beat the Catalonians back into submission and the French and the Spanish and everybody else and the Brazilians and the list goes on and on.
But they can't. So they move on to culture war, race war, all this other stuff. And it's all failing. But remember, we all should not just sit here and defend against the Russian narrative, which is just only $3 bill.
Yes, we should defend against it. But only with a modicum, with a moderate little slices, just laugh at it, then discredit each piece and move on.
Instead of it being the giant narrative, even responding to it, because that gives them the power. We have the power as the independent media.
We have the audience. You are the people. You have the audience. You have the common sense, the light in the dark of the night.
Why are we obsessing over it so much? Why do we live to cover every angle of this soap opera, baking us a slave of the fraud they created instead of going, oh, they brought up Russia gate because they don't want you to see five clips of Democrats.
We're about to show you years ago seeing the exact same thing Trump said on immigration, or they don't want you to remember them crying on election night.
Oh, let's show some of that, or they don't want you to remember their fake polls, or they don't want you to remember them calling for world government, or they don't want you to remember Hillary calling black super predators that must be brought like dogs to heal,
or Africans being told they can't have cars or air conditioning and they're being globally sabotaged. You see, we must take control of the narrative that there's a planetary corporate world government dictating an end of the family
and everyone being run by AI computers and a hellish world that's already been decided.
We have to do that, and I have failed. I knew this a year and a half ago, and I knew it today. And I said they're creating their whole false narrative where even if we respond to it, we lose.
You're already with Tucker Carlson. I'm going to play that clip. And so now, here we are, deep into the fake narrative, they're failing in their overall story.
It doesn't matter. They distracted us into Russia world, which was their plan to begin with, instead of this, from Tucker Carlson, exposing how their frauds. Here it is.
If you've ever been to an American airport, you may have noticed something. Everyone's watching CNN. They don't have a choice.
Well, that may have made sense 20 years ago when CNN had a centrist reputation, but these days, the channel has strayed so far to the left and is constantly promoting wacky, Russia-related conspiracy theories,
along with strange spiritual advice from resident philosopher poet Chris Cuomo. You've got to wonder what's going on.
Airports feel like a lesser version of hell with dirty seats, overpriced food, and propaganda posing as news on CNN.
So why is this network, this channel, in every airport in America? We decided to find out, and in a surprisingly large number of cases, the reason is that CNN is literally paying to have you watch them.
CNN has a special package called CNN Airport. It combines news, sports, and travel. In at least 60 airports, CNN has signed agreements to show the channel.
In Miami, for example, CNN Airport pays the airport authority a minimum of $150,000 a year. In Minneapolis, the airport authorities there told us, quote, CNN covers the costs related to the TVs and infrastructure,
and pays us for the opportunity to be in our facility, which raises the question, how much would you have to be paid to watch CNN?
Life-saving, ready-to-eat bacon, 10-year shelf-life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
In your miles away, security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Fake TV.com.
I am blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
My favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Come, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press, all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarsstore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Available at infowarslife.com, or triple-A-2533139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
You know, I've learned how the globalists roll stuff out, and I've just sat there every day looking at hundreds of news articles and watching hundreds of different news reports or boil-downs of how they operate.
We've always known what their plan is for about 20 years with smart appliances and smart homes to totally surveil us and totally control us, and we even knew how they were going to try to get us to accept it.
Now, about four years ago, the terms of service with smart TVs, that's any TV you buy, told you, watch what you say and do, you're being watched.
And over the weekend, we're not going to go to it yet until the bottom of the next hour, and it is exactly how you would think they would do it right out of the science fiction movie.
How are they going to roll out that your television, not just with a camera or microphone, already embedded, but how are you going to roll it out to announce to everybody they're being watched inside their houses?
By their Kinect systems, by their playstations, by the TV itself, by the TV screen, because they have the patents and the new TV screens just put a little diode chip in, and then it uses the screen itself like a chip that's picking up light for HD video and photos.
They rolled it out over the weekend, and a listener pointed it out, and so we're going to put a big article together on this.
We've already got the video and the intel, and it's coming up bottom of the next hour, maybe the next hour.
There you go.
We're putting on screen for TV viewers.
Just give me a paper.
Print it all for me, because I knew this was coming out and Rob do ran in earlier before the show and brought it up to me and we're collating all the data just so we'll be spot on.
We give it to you because they're going to roll this out.
This was a beta test.
They're going to see what people do and how they respond, and then they're going to ratchet up the propaganda and have somebody down the road announced from mainstream news.
This is no big deal.
This is a fun new thing.
But by the way, it's not just that your Alexa or your Siri is watching and listening to you and saying, watch your mouth.
Everything is watching you.
There it is, CIA turned Samsung smart TVs and listening devices, WikiLeaks dump reveals.
And that was last year we reported that.
We first reported it was Samsung four years ago, had it in their terms of service.
It's not just Samsung.
This is ubiquitous.
But let's stop right there.
Yeah, go ahead and print me all those articles so I can give people some context.
But we are the world leader in exposing this AI takeover because the AI's eyes, ears, nose, fingers, you know, its touch gives all the technology.
And it's not that technology is bad, it's that it's been designed and is being rolled out to predict what we're going to do, control our lives and be able to manipulate stimulus so that we are totally programmable.
The globalists have decided we don't have free will.
They say they do because they're ascendant.
We don't have free will.
And so from birth, they're trying to keep us from ever being somewhat self aware and becoming conscious.
You know, all the ancients and all the leaders and all the spiritual folks were trying to attain higher consciousness.
The entire globalist system is about suppressing higher consciousness.
And I'm just here going, hey, NSA whistleblowers came to me 20 years ago because nobody else was covering this and said, kid, you want to know what's going on and told me everything.
And I went on there and told you everything before I even had documents.
And you know that got me as an audience, the CIA, the Pentagon.
That was suddenly when my audience got big was when the government agencies started all listening and then they go home and buy my products at night, like police chiefs and CIA deputy directors.
And you've heard the stories from dev group seals and everybody else here about how they didn't know what was going on till 15 years ago in a secret operation.
The CIA section chief said, listen, you got to listen to Alex Jones.
He knows what's going on.
And it wasn't because I was that smart.
I was just an uncontrolled guy on talk radio that was on, you know, 3040 stations or so and back when I was 25 years old.
I was on 100 stations by the time I was 27.
And I talk about it.
So pretty soon I had engineers showing up the parking lot going, here's the plans.
And here's the scientific Atlantic cable box.
Break it open.
So there'd be, you see that camera, you see that microphone.
First, it was a microphone.
They said they're about to put cameras in it in two years.
Here's the port for the camera.
He says it'll be 10 years for this is even used, but it's being used now for market research just to set the precedent that everything's being surveilled illegally.
Now, see, back then I went and told people that and the media flipped out.
I had people coming physically attack me death threats.
I mean, it was like, boy, we're going to kill you.
You keep talking about this is back then something could have been done.
It would have shocked Congress like or shocked the local state.
Let's do something.
Why are there hidden cameras and microphones?
You know, in 1997, this is incredible.
The whole country woke up.
We didn't allow it.
But instead, they just made fun of it and made fun of it and made fun of it till it's everywhere now.
Just like CNBC said, well, at the World Government Summit where corporations were making agreements on the future of the planet,
the decision was made that all humans will merge with machines for the betterment of the carbon footprint.
That's what the full report, not just CNBC, if you go actually read what they wrote.
And then, you know, a decade later, the CIA director goes, okay, your appliance is watching you big deal.
And a couple years later, Amazon goes, you know, 99% of the time when you're a prime member,
we can guess exactly what you're doing before you even order it.
And then, oh, Samsung Smart TV records personal conversations and sends them to third parties.
Do you imagine you've got admitted bugs in your house recording everything you're doing with endless bandwidth on bandwidth you're paying for,
collating it all.
But everybody now knows I was right, but I'm still the bad guy and I'm even kookier, see.
Like if I was a prospector and I said, I found the Comstock mine, it's probably got 50 tons of gold in it.
Everybody goes and gets in there and they go, it's got 50 tons of gold.
They're like, let's kill that old man, he's, he, he steered us wrong.
And they go, well, you're not telling us good news like about gold, you're telling us about bad news.
It was gold for your family and gold for the future of the country in the world if we had done something about this.
And it wasn't me that did it, it was the engineers.
You know, I had two other times, I had sons of former NSA and corporate guys, AT&T, Time Warner.
Once I had a son come to me, I used to do events a few times a year, people could come talk to me.
You see, you remember my dad coming to see me about 10 years ago?
And I, and he described him and everything.
You guys met in the parking garage where you were at.
And I said, yeah, and he said, yeah, my dad died about two weeks after that.
Just so you know, they killed him, but I'm glad he did it.
And let me tell you more, he told me before he died and he was telling me everything.
It's about trends and future things.
They can see it and control it, know it.
And they've already, they're gonna put, they're putting nanotech yard in the food and that's what this is all about.
And, and they got big corporations involved in it like Starbucks and I'm just like, whoa, whoa.
I mean, it's folks, we're not in Kansas.
We're in a super advanced technology already.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberky.com.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country,
that if you want proven studies and documentation,
let me speak for hours, this is one of the files I have here,
of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year.
But immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more.
It is concentrated, you need to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate.
A citrus peel blend, I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think is beyond seasonal.
Beta-glucan, olive leaf, and more.
Immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple-82533139.
Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways,
eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms
like running nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet,
just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress,
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block.
Available now at infowarslife.com, or by calling toll-free.
Triple-82533139.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge
for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com, or call 1-888-253-3139.
Ladies and gentlemen, coming up at the bottom of the next hour,
I'm going to present to you first, on air, that the announcement is said to be made imminently
that all new televisions, and the technology is already going into basically everything,
will have the screens themselves being the camera chip.
And we'll videotape you digitally and take photos of you in live time.
You'll be unable to turn them off.
We're going to get to all the documentation claims coming up next hour.
And the reason I go over that is media matters in George Soros will take just that part.
They won't show any documentation.
And they'll say I made it up, even though it's set to be announced.
And the reason I know that is, I know how their algorithm operates.
They made the announcement over the weekend during a major sport event as a beta test.
And then they will, generally within a month, make the announcement to the world.
But then they'll say, did ESPN screw up telling you about it?
They always make it about, oh, Tivo admits that they rewound and replayed a record number of Janet Jackson's breast popping out.
Was it right that they told you they're listening and watching what you do and tracking it?
But that's just digitally.
And then, of course, if they don't like episodes of TV programs I'm on,
they admittedly go in and erase them off your DVRs.
And there it is, Jackson's stunt most replayed moment ever, CNN.
But then that in 2004 became the controversy of, oh, does that scare you that we're watching everything you do?
Well, it's beyond that.
You'll say, I don't care if you watch me.
They use the data against you.
So they're just slowly rolling this out, slowly having discussions about it.
And they admit there's no turning it off.
So here's the bottom line.
All the new modern televisions and many other appliances are watching you.
It's the screen itself and you can't turn it off and they admit they're spying on you and they're using it against you.
But everybody's so in love with the screen sickness.
Down with the sickness.
What are they going to do?
But we've got the video.
Not just of them announcing it, but it inside your house.
Don't show it yet.
Inside your house watching you when you don't know.
And it's all done as cute and fun.
And next it'll be the sports fans, you know.
Oh, look, let's tune into the Johnson's or the or the Chang's house or the or the Smith's house or the Sanchez's house.
And then, oh, look, they're on the couch.
Yay.
And no matter what you do, oh, we're just going to look in your house now.
But it's all done in your face.
Now, I don't want to get sidetracked with that, but it is a big announcement.
And again, they want to just slip it out during sports shows and go, huh, look there, your TV watches yet.
That's a fancy new fun thing.
Look, the folks getting watched are happy about it.
And it's a new technology.
It's always the newest thing.
They told folks going to a death camp was the newest thing.
People would line up for it or have an autonomous car.
It tracks everything you go and tax you by the mile.
But only the fanciest Audi's and Mercedes have it.
Well, let me line up to get that.
And it's all purposely directed and organized to tax you to control you, to make you desperate, to make you alone, to make you obsolete.
The New York Times, it's fascinating to ban best friends and maybe even friendship itself.
That's how we'll make people happy.
Don't go outdoors.
Don't have friends.
Don't have contact sports.
Just look at your phone and then you get the internal documents in there like 15 years ago, right when Facebook's getting launched.
Our mission is to keep them with the contained system, to keep them depressed, to keep them desperate, and only interacting with our bots and our systems.
In phase one and phase two, we'll then phase out really most human activity and real contact and phase in mainly bots.
Then we'll phase out third-party advertising and only advertise goods and services that vertically integrate our control system.
I'm paraphrasing with documents.
Their public came out last year.
And then finally, we will phase out products all along the line and only allow them to have the products we want for social engineering towards the larger goals of our unified program under the Transnational Agreement, TPP, IMF, World Bank, WTO agreements.
And then it lists them.
These all in board meetings with the top technicians, the top engineers, the top psych warfare people, and they create a private global government secret combine that you're going to live under.
And we're already 14 phases that I know of into these things.
They have meetings every two to three years to finish their systems.
They've got four or five competing world government models, but are run by the same people only to see which one's working the best to then finally merge what works best in all of the systems together into the super grid.
I mean, you're getting the actual plan right now.
And see, why does all this other news matter when you know the master plan?
Then you've got to ask, who do they get to run it? Well, Communist Chinese, they found are the most godless blood thirsty, cold about it, and we'll just do whatever they're told and actually have a fetish to kill their own people.
So, I mean, they patented putting people in slave cages and shelling them around the world 500 years ago.
And just, just, it's unbelievable. So that's why the Vatican has come out and said they are the model of human rights.
They are the epitome of goodness and decency. That was the pope yesterday in the big announcement.
China best example of churches, social doctrine, Beijing defense, human dignity, the Pope says.
And I thought you'd want to know about that because every day or so we see another Catholic priest, including the deputy Pope,
indicted for trafficking more than 100 small boys, some of which were found dead.
This is out of the Idaho statesmen. Hundreds of child porn images, LSD, ecstasy found in Boise Priest home.
Prosecutor says, but that's not the issue. The headline should be.
This retired senior priest talked in message boards about his desires to rape and kill children that he would kidnap.
And of course, you dig deeper into the situation, you'll find more.
And that ties into this report about the top Democrat donor in California with all these witnesses saying he gets black men that are not on drugs,
gets them on drugs just to see them dehumanized and desperate.
And then they die.
They found one guy, a young man dead at his house and they've got the dire reason it's all very, very sad.
And again, you have to understand with the left, sucking a soul is their God.
And if you can take somebody and they're so anti black, I don't know what it is.
They're always getting caught shipping black kids out of Haiti. They particularly like them.
There was the Rolling Stones got caught with a dead black Asian kid back in the 70s in New York.
It's hard to even find that report killing a voodoo ritual, but it's some weird stuff, man.
And I guess in voodoo, the thing you want to black, and if you can't get away with doing sacrifice itself,
I'm not saying this nice person was a rainbow ties doing that. I'm just saying that's what goes on.
This is a big part of it.
And you can read about justice for Gamal Moore family wants answers in escorts death at dim donors home.
Ed Buck is a well known Democrat contributor, one of the biggest in California.
And then it goes on according to a July 31st corners report.
Buck's apartment was riddled with drug paraphernalia according to items 24 syringes containing brown residue,
five glass pipes that goes on and then they got the witnesses and other black men.
And we've got the diaries and all the rest of it.
A number of gay black men have claimed Buck would invite them to his house and pay them several hundred dollars to take drugs.
He liked to get them addicted and then watch them disintegrate.
And there you have it.
That's okay because like Harvey Weinstein, he's liberal.
But see, see, that's who they got working for them. That's their army.
Now we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically proven to have.
So I just got this fresh today.
Literally the seals not even being opened on it.
It's just 29 95 again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules in this bottle.
It is bodies, the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market available right now at infowarstore.com.
We've got it today.
Activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com. And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
A few years ago, Ralph Rykerman of the Scorpions said that he'd been at parties where people got killed as part of ritual sacrifice.
He said, well, TMZ took it out of context.
Here's the bottom line.
There have been a lot of mysterious deaths in and around Hollywood, rock stars, you name it.
They're constantly catching people into the occult.
There's been all these incredible ritual murders that we've seen that are carried out.
When Charlie Manson does it for Satan, we say, oh, he's mentally ill.
Well, of course, he's mentally ill.
But these things go on, and they try to act like it's a witch hunt and these things don't go on.
Well, it's not Russian interference we have in this country.
It's globalist involved in every aspect of our lives, dehumanizing us, trying to corrupt our children, trying to attack our families.
And they're now so out in the open, they're trying to normalize saying, don't say father and mother.
Don't say Jesus Christ. Don't even say you have a family.
Don't have Trump say family and church during his State of the Union, that that's hateful and bad.
And that communist China is a great, the best example of human rights, according to the Pope.
It's all sick jokes, bringing in 10 million radical Islamists into Europe and letting them do whatever they want.
That's all satanic.
Snopes is out saying, well, the new portrait of the president doesn't have sperm on him.
It looks like sperm painted, but it's, you know, and yes, the artist does paint sperm on some of his other paintings,
but the Imple Wars is wrong. It's not sperm.
Even lying, they have to admit the truth.
Let's play Mr. Scorpions. Here it is.
I went to one time and I've seen really bad. Was it like a donkey show or? No, actually, you know, I think they actually kill people.
They pay like up to like 100,000 people to see people get executed.
They have $100,000 to see people killed.
Now, did he really, was he really involved in that? He's trying to be shocking.
The point is, I just, that's not the best version video they found.
We've got a lot better one on ImpleWars.com in an article dealing with it.
We'll put back on screen something to give you the headline.
Former Scorpions bass player admits going to stuff parties.
Hostile movie reflects elite murder parties.
Now, obviously he tried to backtrack on that one.
The point is, is that look at what ISIS is into murdering hundreds of thousands of people, putting little girls into sex slavery,
cutting hearts out, making a bunch of Africans in Libya eat pieces of their dead comrades, believing it will send them to hell.
We've played that video before, right before the election, given to us by intelligence sources.
This is stuff grabbed off satellite feeds.
I've got hours of it back there.
You want to see ISIS? If they aren't devil worshipers, I don't know what is.
They're into evil. They're into pushing boundaries.
Now, if you just joined us, I got into this Catholic priest, retired senior priest,
who used to be liberal in the community, who was talking on message boards about how he wanted to kidnap and how he desired to rape and kill children.
And so they found hundreds of child porn images, LSD, ecstasy in the priest home.
And of course, the investigation will probably stop right there, but that's just the daily bus that's going on that I mentioned,
Democrat donors and what people say is going on inside their houses and the dead body that's found and all the rest of it.
If you're part of the establishment, like Joe Scarborough, and there's a young intern with her brains bashed out and you're inside your office in the middle of the night.
Well, there's not even going to be an autopsy year or just we're not even going to look at this or they called it an autopsy.
They just said, oh, she hit her head.
And so we're going to leave it at that because see, you're part of the establishment.
You get to not be investigated. You get to do what you want.
Before we go to break, let me tell you what's coming up in the jam packed next hour.
There's a new Feinstein flashback about how DACA would be a horrible idea and all the common sense reasons.
It's not good.
As you said, it would turn the US into Mexico's welfare state.
That's what globalism is.
And we got Bill Clinton's flashback talks about Trump.
We are not we are a nation of laws.
And then I want to tie into new stories that are out EU chief, we open borders to stop populism.
We we were unelected EU.
We're authoritarian. We're tax exempt.
We're run by the heir to the Nazi throne, Junker.
And so we're going to bring in people that we're going to let vote to stop the natives from controlling us.
We don't have the votes to make you stay in the dictatorships.
We're going to bring people in, put them on welfare, your money and pay them to be your enemy.
That's coming up.
We're also going to get into what we told you.
What was it three, four months ago?
Tomorrow's news today.
Romney to an out Senate run on social media.
So he is running between get position and then running against Trump.
That's coming up.
We also are going to get into Intel chief's sound alarm on China's threat.
Yes, they do.
But oh, the Atlantic.
Remember, we told you this four years ago.
Well, now it's being announced.
China's dystopian tech could be contagious.
Their People's Republic social credit scheme might have consequences for life in cities everywhere.
And they say it's coming here.
You're not a good globalist.
You can't buy or sell.
You can't travel.
You can't live.
I think I heard of that before in Google test a smart replay robot reply robot that will chat to your friends so you can keep on top of your social life without the effort.
Yes, AI will even wipe your butt for you.
And you're like, oh, I don't care.
We can use technology.
It's being designed to totally control you.
And of course, this little schmiblet because I've been under Qatari attack for six years.
We've even had, we know funded Islamic groups out of Qatar have funded lawsuit campaigns against us behind the scenes.
And of course, failed and other things that we'll be able to reveal very, very soon.
The young Turks were mainly funded by Qatar CNN's massively funded by Qatar.
Not anymore.
Trump put into that.
But Qatar backed spy operation on US Jews.
So the free beacon puts Al Jazeera in congressional crosshairs.
Oh, yeah, I've been around Al Jazeera reporters.
They are globalist, leftist foundation CIA, Tabastock Institute cutouts.
And so there you go.
And of course, will American leftist Jews do anything about this?
Probably not.
But there you go.
Pretty sick.
And we've got economic news, tech news, the volcanic news.
Yellowstone's getting really intense.
That is all coming up in the second hour.
But at the bottom of the hour, I'm not going to push it, but I want to get all my documents together and all my little duckies and a little quackable, happy row.
We're going to exclusively reveal to you that your televisions, whether you turn them on or off, are watching you inside your home, all the new ones.
And they're rolling out systems where the screen itself is the camera so you can't turn it off.
And they are already doing it and they're preparing to announce it in the general media.
But they see unconscious sports fans as the first target it has been announced.
That video and more coming up.
Bottom of the next hour.
This is critical info.
If you take it like it's a big deal, they're doing this.
We could create a wave, get some concern and get this fixed.
I tried back when nobody knew what was going on, but we could have really turned it around then.
Now they're rolling it out ubiquitous, 100% rollout.
So we can get a wave on this and hopefully have some debate about this and stop the screen sickness and so much more.
So we're going to be breaking it all down.
Screen sickness is another term I coined.
That's what it is.
Lowers your IQ, lowers everything.
We're going to discuss it all, especially stuff that they're not to challenge you, not to bring in complex thought processes.
You could turn the video off and listen to the show.
It'll get you thinking just like reading a book will.
But the flicker rates everything still lowers your consciousness, lowers your brainwave.
Once you're in that highly suggestible state, this is on record.
They can fully program you.
So just do that your own peril, ladies and gentlemen.
All right.
Huge special.
We haven't had this in about a month or so, but it's so popular.
We're bringing it back all super blue.
That's the colloidal silver and iodine fortified made America organic toothpaste.
All super blue products at the invoiced or 50% off for a very limited time.
And you can find out all about it for adults.
We have a children's as well.
It's the best toothpaste out there.
Thousands, thousands of five star reviews.
Find out about your children deserve it.
And it's when we think it's the best toothpaste ever.
Here's some of the reviews.
This is best toothpaste by Sandra and undisclosed location verified buyer.
This has got to be the very best toothpaste that I've ever found.
If you've not tried it, you need to get this toothpaste.
My gums have never felt so good.
My teeth are squeaky clean.
When using super blue toothpaste, I am fixing to order some more.
I'm like she's from Texas.
And it just goes on and on with the same five stars, thousands and thousands of them.
Limited time cell force product.
That is really called DNA force plus when it comes out more bio PQQ more CoQ 10.
Then DNA force because DNA force plus at a reduced price.
We got a big deal on this.
So it's a couple hundred dollars less than leading competitors sold at medical clinics.
As if the prescription they're not 69.95.
You cannot get a better deal.
This is galactic good.
Also Icarin liver and kidney detox 50% off out of the gates.
Only 1995 info or store.com.
You cannot fund a more hardcore pro human operation than info wars.
And your purchase aren't just vital.
They are beyond critical.
So thank you for your support. Please front all the live links.
And your wallet floor life supports your body's core where you need it most including digestion,
regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care.
And a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to info wars life.com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today.
That's info wars life.com.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your inter cellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up up up optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
12 intake. Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret
12. That's infowarslife.com.
We've got new flashbacks that intrepid investigators have ferreted out from television archives
that are being dumped online more and more. Very, very useful for the folks that are willing
to pound through all the old C-SPAN video. Everything C-SPAN has ever aired has been
put up. Everything ABC, CBS, NBC, they're all just posting it. And you go in there and
it is just a treasure trove of back when they knew America was somewhat awake. At least
the globalism and open borders. How the camel nosed under the tent flap and would sit there
and say the exact same things that Donald Trump is saying today. He's just actually
doing something about it. So we've got a Feinstein new flashback that's coming up and
so much more. And then of course, the big news, the ultimate big brother news bottom
of the hour. But right now I'm going to go to this video. We must reclaim our republic
because that's what it's all about. We must reclaim our republic, ladies and gentlemen.
And I was thinking about that line and that song, he talks about, proud to be an American
and the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that away. And I remember
growing up hearing that and thinking, I love America, but that's a little cheesy. But if
you get older, you learn that's how criminals operate is that once they get control, they
want to take everything away from you. And modern liberals are just criminals. And studies
show that. Depending on the studies, six to nine times more likely, British US studies,
Canadian studies by liberal universities, by the psychology departments, that they're
way meaner, give way less charity and steal. And it's because they're weak.
We went through the treasury annual reports and can document where the money was taken
from the investors from Freddie and the two large mortgage giants. The treasury put it
into their general fund and then we watched the accounting. We did an Excel chart which
shows exactly how the money was diverted into health and Medicare and the dollar flows
are dramatically a pattern that confirms when the money was taken out of Annie and Freddie,
shuffled it off and did this commerce and housing and then it ends up in their line
items for expenditures and health and Medicare.
And I've looked at the federal law and you've recovered it's totally illegal. Totally illegal.
And this also proves and why it's so important right now. It's time for all these gangster
thugs of Democratic Party that want to fight. It's time they start getting one. Of course,
they'll just blow up a school and say we did it. No, I mean, it's time politically for
them to get their asses indicted for this and everything else. This shows Alex that
Obamacare was bankrupt and if the Obama administration had not illegally taken money, looted it and
robbed the investors. I mean, there's lawsuits on this. The investors were this is the biggest
theft of corporate dividends in US financial history. And the system seeks to arrest the
development of individuals so they can control them throughout their lives. I thought it
critical, absolutely critical to talk about the psychology of these people. And just that
line, the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that away. So part of taking
America back is having a wall, is having visas, is having sovereignty and is supporting the
men and women who served in our military and who serve in it now, not because you're in
a cult of worshiping the military, but because you understand the globalist want to take
that away from you and demoralize the nation so we can be controlled. And everything Trump's
doing is to stop the demoralization. You know, I've got some talking points here about
caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead of going on those talking points, let me just
give you what I've experienced personally. From all the wives tales in every culture,
we know that the bones have the essence. We know chicken noodle soup is great for people
that are sick. Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works. And there's
no way to quantify how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible. Ladies
and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins,
whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and gentlemen is the
strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for
yourself today at infowarsstore.com, what you can do for your family. And again, I want
to thank you all for your support. You are funding the information war in 2018.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones. You know, Tucker
Carlson is the slickest, in a good way, smartest person on television right now. Sean Hannity
is the most dogged and has the most courage. But Lou Dobbs in his massive knowledge of
politics, of business, of everything really is the master. And that's all on Fox. Fox
tried to be anti-Trump until about six months ago. They lost about half their viewers and
almost killed them. And then that attempt failed and now the floodgates are open again
to tell the truth. Doesn't mean they're perfect. But think about where we'd be if it wasn't
for Fox News. And the only reason I say that is the globalists are constantly in their
public white papers, scheming how to bring down Fox and how to pressure Murdoch to do
it. But Murdoch has hedged his bets and is now burrowed in with Trump talking to him
every day, I'm told. And really knows how to be a sycophant trying to lick his rear
end. I'm sorry to use the term like that, but I want us to get the president. So I just
said it. The Murdoch is trying to not just brown those, but kiss the rose of Venus shame.
And he's up there pitching, sir, just it's like utilities, but you need to be able to
have people that are able to create monopolies and we need to be able to just come in and
shut down all the alternative media and then it'll be Fox News everywhere, sir. And that's
what he's openly promoting to Facebook and Twitter. I mean, I heard about this six months
ago from sources that Murdoch's in there constantly meeting with him all the time on the phone
with him every day and that Murdoch's got a plan to have Trump block the monopolies
of Google, Facebook and Twitter, which they're trying to set up, which Obama set up with
his so-called net neutrality move, which was at net neutrality. We had somewhat of net neutrality
before the FCC done its job getting out of the way. And I've interviewed former heads
of the FCC, former general counsels. I mean, we've got the experts here. I don't just look
at mainstream media. I do my own research. So what Obama did a year and a half ago was
really bad, turning the internet over to Soros and the UN and the globalist. Trump comes
in, he's kind of blocked up and not even fully regulatory. It's hard to do once it was in
play. I mean, Obama federalized the next elections coming up, put it under Homeland
Security rule and all 50 attorney generals, including Democrats wrote letters saying please
reverse it. And Trump hadn't done that. Maybe Trump wants to have Homeland Security in control.
I think that's unconstitutional. I think it's dangerous. And he doesn't control that bureaucracy.
If he thinks he'll have them guarded, it's full of globalists. They're going to steal
the election. Look at what happened with Roy Moore. So sorry, this gets into complexities.
Gee, this isn't like your regular radio show. You're just inside my head right now. And
I was about to cover all these big subjects and I was just thinking how thankful I was
to Tucker Carlson that he's so smart. It's good to have other brains out there like that.
I'm exhausted a lot of the time. And I'm very thankful to others, Michael Savage and Rush
Limbaugh and Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson and out there. Thank God. They're not perfect.
I'm not perfect either, but they're not out to get you. And then we wouldn't be here without
Matt Drudge. Fox would have buckled. And all this would have buckled if Drudge wasn't there.
Drudge is the cornerstone, the linchpin, the secret sauce. But you know, if you look at
God's plan, if I wasn't here, we wouldn't be here. If you weren't here, we wouldn't
be here. Our active audience, if Drudge wasn't there, if Trump hadn't been there to seize
the moment with the catalyst, the final headstone, capstone, not using a limonade term, they'd
just grab every term, make it theirs. I mean, Trump is the capstone of the relaunch of the
Republic. He's the nose code on the rocket. Info wars is the fuel. And all of us are just
as important as the other some parts. There isn't some elitism here. There isn't some
competition. This is a death battle with anti human satanic monopolistic scumbag forces
who are spewing race and culture division and just evil. We have to declare our race,
our religion, whoever you are, whatever you stand for, because the globalist want to outlaw
it all and overwrite it. Doesn't mean our cultures are perfect. But man, they're real
and they came from somewhere real. We better hold on to them like we've been thrown off
a ship and a storm and we found a barrel or we found a we found some driftwood. We better
hold on to that because we can't swim for three, four days before we hit land. That's
why they say you can't have mother and father. You can't have a, you know, terms like family.
You can't have church because they try to take all that over. But down their final phase,
they want to get rid of that even existing. So all you've got that television and all
you've got that smart phone. And that's why they want to get me off here. Cause I know
this is an evil medium, but I'm jacking into the matrix every day. If you're watching,
I'm in here bathed in these lights and jacketed and all this electronics and up links and
all the rest of it because it's a war and it doesn't matter what happens to me. What
matters is the continuum of the species. Now that is an anti-collective of a statement.
I am anti-collectivist because I am a total collectivist. I am anti-collectivist because
I am a 1000% total collectivist. It is the some individual parts that are the strength,
the vigor, the wisdom, the force and the will of the group to act in the good of the group.
That doesn't mean suborning my individual fire, my Promethean fire to the globalists
who are fallen so that they can play God. I will give my individual will and strength
and full measure for the collective 1000% and that is the secret. I am a total collectivist
and that means I believe in the individual and I believe in all of your success and all
of your will and all of your strength because the strength of the whole is the strength
of the individual. It is not the strength of the individual is the strength of the whole.
Let's ask backwards. We go from subatomic particles and build upward to the structure
of the universe. The great structure of the universe is not that which then goes down
into the foundations of it. It comes up from the foundations into it and these are the great
secrets. The spark of creativity, the spark of Genesis comes from the man and the woman
and you attack those, the progenitor of our species in its space leap. Your great great
great great great great great great grandmother is alive in you right now. She has time jumped
by her will, her genes, her genetics, her everything to survive through all this in
you today. And what does she want? She wants you to be successful. She wants you to move
forward and she loves your great great grandchildren, not even born. And she'll give everything
she's got just to make sure you don't die. And by that, if you have to die so that it
doesn't die, you will die. The only death is giving up on that continuum. That's the
death I fear. The Satanist is a cancer that is cut off from the collective. So it always
seeks to build a artificiality of what it believes we are. It wants to build the counterfeit
so it builds a collective directed by globalist kingpins and inbred globalists who are totally
obsessed with control as if that is what built all this. That builds Venezuela. That builds
North Korea. That builds Nazi Germany. That destroys planets. That destroys star systems.
And you know it has in your heart. It's all written there. The long course of human events,
the long course of our different struggles and our different embryonic phases and our
different adventures together. That's such a long road that we can't even imagine. This
Genesis is a new Genesis, but the Genesis of many and the enemy knows it and the enemies
pissed at all times because even if they blow this planet up, they didn't stop anything.
Birds are blown in the wind. Some fall on rocks. Some fall on the dirt. Some are eaten
by the birds, but some grow up into huge trees and create galaxies of more life. And as long
as you bow down to God, from which all of this flows, you're in good hands and you cannot
lose. And so all of these artificial constructs and everything that's been put in place is
to separate you from God because God is all there is, all there ever was, and all there
ever will be. And that is the war on for your soul, the war on for your mind.
All right, we're going to go back in the time machine and the Democrats with some new flashbacks
where they've got egg on their face dealing with globalism and open borders. And then
the next phase of Big Brother revealed here exclusively, one out of four people listening
to my voice right now could die from heart disease. This could be your last year and
you don't even know it because you don't know the early warning signs. If you think
you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal, think again, because studies show
that 75% of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol levels. Let me introduce
you to Strauss Heart Drops, a world famous heart and brain formula made in Canada. It's
time tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your money back. Learn more
at signsofheartdisease.com. They are shipping free this month.
866-563-goberky.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose
from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See
guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
Every year we spend hundreds of dollars on chocolates, jewelry and sappy cards for Valentine's
Day. It's time to get a gift that will really make the sparks fly with the Info Wars Life
His and Hers pack now at 40% off. Get our two fan favorite products, super male vitality
and super female vitality that help boost vitality and energy for less. You've already
taken care of Valentine's Day. Make sure you and your significant other have an incredible
Valentine's night. A perfect excuse to get a gift for them and a gift for yourself. Super
male vitality and super female vitality combine ancient wisdom and modern techniques for truly
powerful formulas that you know they'll love. Fuel your body naturally and celebrate your
love today with the Info Wars Life His and Hers pack now available at 40% off at InfoWarsStore.com
or by calling 888-253-3139. I'm so excited. The new product at InfoWarsLife.com in a
glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the
real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants
in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off
what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription,
but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae
working with some scientists and developers. Non-GMO made right here in America 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red
pill now available at InfoWarsStore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The telescreens were always on even when your television was off. Austin, Texas. Broadcasting
worldwide, it's Alex Jones. So, coming up next segment, if Kit Daniels is ready with
the article, he's awesome. I said, I will go with the story tomorrow. I want to codify
it. We already have all the facts, but this is so big. He said, I can get it done in a
couple of hours with the patents, with the documents. And so he's in there rushing to
get it up and then we'll kind of typo it and stuff once it's out. But this is certainly
drudge worthy since we were talking about drudge. It is, in my humble opinion, so important
what you're about to see coming up. I'm going to push it the last segment of this hour,
but I promise this hour we're going to cover it. I don't want to rush Kit. We've got the
video. We're going to air all of it. You know me folks, I'll say coming up that I cover
it right then. I'm not one of those guys that plants hooks. I mean, I'll say we're going
to break this is coming up next because that's what's coming up next. But I'm not like the
suspense, and then the suspense is the meal. BuzzFeed wrote some article where they claimed,
Oh, Jones, you know, the suspense is the meal. There's never really any substance. It's all
just the suspense of it. Oh, there's no substances. You know, just all your TVs now are watching
you in live time and have built in secret cameras behind the screen or use the entire
screen to watch you with information over power line through your house, remote turning
your TV on and watching you even if it wants to. That's all in the patents. And now it's
been announced. Just wait. Oh, there's no meat and potatoes there tomorrow's news today.
Like Trump's going to win the election. Or they gave the questions to Hillary Clinton
weeks before it's all in the WikiLeaks. We broke it first. I know rehearsed answers when
I see it. And I know about seeing his relationship with Clinton campaign. And I knew she was
running the New York Times, the Washington Post, all of it. She had herself and her staff.
You got to hand her the amount of work she was doing on the phone basically all the
time, like hours a day with all these newspapers, telling them what to do. We have internal
documents and video from Baratos where the New York Times has a was like the vice presidents
of YouTube's communicating with them about how to censor me in live time. They have congressional
hearings where they go. Info wars was top story. I saw it lunch, sir. We saw it. We
took it down. Good. Do it quicker next time. We've got the AI, sir, but it's got problems.
We're almost ready. How long is that song? We need to talk in private session, sir. We're
almost ready to launch it. This is beyond communist China. And then it's in the news
that communist China is where they tested it. And they're bringing it here. And the Pope
is saying communist China is the ultimate humanitarian organization. And the example
of human dignity. If human dignity means getting 80 plus million people killed. Damn right.
80 million plus people. Millions shot millions. They're organ sold. Not counting the millions
of babies for suborted little girls. But Oh, the feminists would have a word to say about
that. Oh, aborting most the girls. That's very liberal. It's all sick. They tell you
they're feminist Harvey Weinstein, because he's reportedly raping women every couple
of days. That's what he likes. 90 pound little women that look like they're 12 who are 18.
Some of them 16 and he just rapes them reportedly. And the feminists are defending him because
raping little girls is liberal. Look at Roman Polanski. Look at the Hollywood protecting
what they tell you they're fighting they're doing. Comprende. Comprehend it. I know you
know, but understand when I say the globalist technocracy is typecasting is psychologically
coming up with a certain type of person. They want to run things. It is the pedophile because
somebody that wants to abuse children will abuse humanity. They will abuse life. They
will abuse anything. Let's go ahead and go to this clip. Here's I mentioned it. Let's
go ahead and go to this clip. This is a flashback of so many. This is a new one on info wars
dot com today. And this is Feinstein flashback day when Americans could be the welfare state
for Mexico is gone. Here it is. This is from many, many years ago 1993. Here it is. Come
to these two borders. You have to remember a couple of things. In Mexico, there is no
welfare. There is no A F D C. There is no SSI. There is no Medicaid. There is no Social
Security. There is no Medicare. And there's a 58 cent an hour minimum wage. Mexico does
nothing to enforce its border. It is my view that if we are going to have a North American
free trade agreement that Mexico must do its share because the day when America could be
the welfare system for a Mexico is gone. We simply can't afford it. And I think you've
seen the figures to state and local governments of what the cost is. It's over $2 billion
in California alone. And I have those figures if you want them in specific in my purse. And
that's why the issue is now joined with 2 million illegal immigrants. It's a competition
for space. Whether the space is a job, the space is a home, a place in a classroom, it
becomes a competition for space. This is a country that's based on immigration. And
we all know that. And yet at times you become so overtaxed, you have to concentrate on saying
the people who should be here are those who come legally at this time. And we've got to
for the time being enforce our borders. But see under globalism, I can play you Obama,
I can play you Bill Clinton, I can play you Hillary. We've all heard the clips, but that's
a new one that's come up from C-SPAN. And here's the deal. You can't have a high standard
of living here. And a high tax rate. And then bring in a bunch of people or you get a wall-wall
west collapse and people are back living in slave camps and crapping all of themselves.
And you don't raise up the third world study show by lowering to its level or merging with
it. You become it. That's just a fact. And when you politically take in these people
and program them to be anti-white, anti-American, so that's globalist can take over, it's over.
The society will fall. And this, according to the EU's own chief, is their geopolitical
plan. An article. It's on newswars.com by Dan Lyman. EU chief. We need open borders
to stop populism. Oh, you don't like the unelected EU? Well, let's bring in 10 million people,
80% of military-age men, let them do whatever the hell they want, from free housing, throw
old people out of their government housing because you've got to have an incentive to
bring them here. Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, delivered remarks in
Vienna in which he warned against the destructive motions of those who oppose the ongoing migrant
invasion and denounce the rise of populism in Europe. And these are irregular troops
coming in to be the muscle of the left. Now, before we go to break and come back with this
huge breaking news, we are doing 50% off our super high-quality colloidal silver fortified
and iodine fortified, super blue toothpaste, and mouthwash. Now, this is already a best
seller. We already sell a lot of it at the full price. And, you know, it's a good deal
up there. It costs us a lot to make it. When right now it's 50% off infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com,
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. And that's how you help fund
the operation. Also, the liver and kidney cleanse, Icarin, is 50% off out of the gates.
We've got the new cell forces, really DNA force plus, that's 50%, that's about the end.
And we've got so many other products, infowarslife.com, or triple eight, two, five, three, three,
one, three, nine. Thanks for making the whole broadcast possible. Without you, we wouldn't
be here giving you tomorrow's news today. Stay with us.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology. Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and serve. Lifesaving, ready to eat bacon,
10 year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you have the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX,
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality. Our
ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from
around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. InfoWarsLife
wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize
your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWars, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarsore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number
three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listers have been requesting
this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each
month. Just go to infowarsore.com. Select your favorite product or products. Click on
auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know, I
coined the term 360 win. And with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com, this
is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com. Free shipping on
orders above $50. And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products. Info
Warslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or
try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and super charge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing
fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health
routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Resistance to Pirants is obedience to God.
Okay, the next segment's about a minute longer. The segments are all about 10 minutes, but
the next segment's 10 minutes, 50 seconds long. And so I'm going to break the big news
at the start of the next segment and it is big news. A lot of people drum up how big
their news is going to be and then it's not really that big a news and then people just
get used to hearing this is big news, this is big news. This isn't just big news. It's
about you being concerned about it and it's about you making it big news because so much
the psychological warfare out there is about just getting you to acquiesce, getting you
to break your back politically, getting you to give in, give up, demoralize you. But I'll
give you the headline. Just went live on infowarstore.com and it's a smattering of the info we're
going to cover in the next segment and the back story and how big it is. But the story
just went live. Hit refresh on infowarstore.com. We're uploading it to our other sites right
now like newswars.com. Exclusive ESPN and Mitch to watching you through your TV. Ultimate
Big Brother technology rolled out on unsuspecting fans. We have the video. This is nowhere.
A listener sent us this. We found another source confirmed it. This is unbelievable.
So and this is them watching them in another country and they don't even describe what's
happening. It's been to be a mystery. We looked it up. So do you wonder how they're going
to roll this out on you? Just boom. Oh yeah. In a nice fun atmosphere, not having a debate
about is it good? Is it bad? Just suddenly it's here. It's like you're Austria in 1939
and suddenly the Nazi just march in. You don't announce it. You just are there. Oh, hey,
we're watching your house. You're like, oh, everybody knows they're doing that. Oh, really?
I was the crazy cook for warning you exactly how they do it. 20 years ago, my point is
they wanted us to get you ready like a frog in the boiling pot where it's kind of bubbling
and you kind of just pass out and die. Come on, froggies get out of the pot. Froggy. Froggy.
I used to be one too little froggy in the pot. Come on. No, no, no, you don't want to roll
your eyes back. I can't pick you up. You have to get on your own. It's called free will.
Come froggy. You little froggy. Nice happy hop off and enjoy yourself. But you've got
to get out of the you've got to get out of the pot. You got the globalist Cajun there
with the seasoning. I'm not engaged, but they eat frogs. You know what I mean? This is serious
business, folks. And I don't have to explain to you how it's bad. The TVs are watching
and listening to you, right? Right. Right. Right. Remember, still that's bad. Remember
number 1984? Remember, I'm going to cover that too coming up. But I haven't done proper
plugging. I did like a one minute plug last hour, one minute plug just now because we
need to find our operation. We are launching three different satellite uplinks. Now we've
got two right now. We're going to do one more so we can really service all the cable and
TV stations in North America. And then I want to get on one that goes into Europe and everywhere
else. And these aren't just the satellites. I'll be announcing with a tell soon. They're
the big ones that the big giant dishes for the best HD. Then there's the systems that
you know, Galaxy 16, you name it, that blasts the entire U.S. were a small disc and see
it. But also all the TV stations, all of them can get in. We got a bunch wanting the show.
So we're lining up all sorts of stuff right now. We got two links up now. Three will be
up soon. And by next month, I'm going to announce the rollout to stations, the push for listeners
to call their local UHF VHF stations. And believe me, all you got to do is with your
local UHF and VHF, most of them are on basic cable. And basic cable is the little secret
is, is more than half the viewers on a regular cable sign up are watching basic. The bottom
40 channels or so. And I looked at the numbers of people like Glenn Beckman, 25 million or
20 million a year, depending on the year to have their own glamour channel. Oh, look,
I have a channel because I was offered. Beck was trying to get out of his channel a few
years ago, the people that were involved in it tried to see if I wanted and I said, I
don't have that much money a and b, but be channel 1800 or something and then okay, people
want us. Here we are. They want to find us in full wars.com. There was some huge audience
already tuning through there. Like there is on basic cable systems and UHF and VHF people
that haven't been reached really by talk radio or by the internet that I'm all about it.
People like, yeah, well, there's kind of an uneducated group on average watching broadcast
TV now or there's kind of, there's all sorts of people watching. The point is I want to
reach people period folks. That's why I went with old voice of America transmitters that
got bought out by private groups from the US stop transmitting at hundreds of thousands
of watts of shortwave into, into Europe and Africa and everywhere. They said, there's no
money in that. Why are you going to pay $10,000 a month to be on four or five different transmitters
10 hours a day blasting all over the world? Cause I get letters from missionaries and
letters from African children and letters from Eastern Europe. They're listening. They've
got their short waves out. It's a giant audience. They used to hear the voice of America. Now
that's gone. They get the real voice of America. See how that works? I don't care about the
money. The money is to put fuel in this operation to crush globalist, but TV wise, I don't want
to even name these stations because we're not going to list the stations. Um, people
will figure it out local. The listeners will promote the stations so they don't get harassed.
So the globalist don't list their number and then it's not big harassment, but it's enough
to get some stations to turn you off. Well, the smartest things I ever did about five
years ago was decide to not list our affiliates or only our older hardcore affiliates more
than half our affiliates aren't listed on AM radio. Man, when I did that, it got real
good because that they know the listeners are going to promote it anyways. It's going
to get high ratings. They want to do the right thing. They want to put us on, but they don't
want the controversy of being singled out to be targeted. And it's the same thing. We
have got some of the biggest TV stations in the country ready to pick this up and some
of them are already doing it. And I'm going to leave it at that. And we're seeing big
financial returns as well to help fund the operation, uh, but not big enough to fund
the big expansion I want to do. I don't want to just sit here and kind of grow a little
under attack. I want to go like, I want to be like the doomsday, but in a good way of
talk show. It's like every time in my life, they tried to crush me or suppress me. I
explode and get twice powerful after, and we're going through a doomsday metamorphosis
right now. And I mean, around here, all people are getting hired. Equipment's going in satellites.
I mean, it's, it, it's happening. And so I need you to make sure that my next mutation,
your next mutation is very successful and very destructive and destabilizing to the
new world order. I mean, our full commitment is total war and information with truth against
the enemy. I'm not risking my life and doing this at half measures and playing games and
any of this crap where 100% attacked the enemy. And we're not that perfect or any of that.
We're just, you make us possible. So I need you to go to m4warstore.com and just look at
the water filtration, air filtration, non-geomerellum seeds, super high quality, fortified fluoride
free toothpaste with iodine and global silver and all of it, 50% off right now and Icarin,
the liver and kidney detox. It's so amazing. The strongest formula out there from our research
of the known concentrated herbs and compounds to flush that garbage out and give your body
the boost it needs and shell force will be known as DNA force plus soon for $69.95. That's
one of our more expensive products. Leading competitors are $200, $300 for formulas not
as strong as the bio PQQ and CoQ10 is expensive, but they mark stuff up seven times. Oh no,
we got $35 product, the bottle, and that's $69. That's 100% markup. This is like you
want the real CoQ10 and bio PQQ. This is like nuclear bomb level and it's not on the
bad stuff in your body and it's not the synthetic crap. That's why it's more expensive for us.
So it's all available. We have the M4 Wars daily digestive pack 50% off on the carnivore
that help digest meat and protein and the fluorolive 15 billion, a great probiotic deal.
That's an amazing deal. And so much more. We also have a new partnership with Spiket
Tactical. SpiketTactical.com with all their top-of-the-line rifles and accessories, Patriot
owned, all made in America. That is 5% off. Additionally, that's with some of the SpiketTactical
gear here in Austin, Texas. We never kind of cycled through the end of the promo though.
Maybe it's not your fault. We should go to it next to a break. Maybe we should go to the
end of the promo. I was supposed to see come of that and see our own buddy Tim Fuget there.
Pat loves wearing those pink glasses as a joke. That's Pat, one of the crew members there.
And they've got just all these amazing, amazing firearms. So they got the compressor, the suppressors,
all of it. InfowarsStore.com or AAA-2533139 or SpiketTactical.com. And then a percentage
of the proceeds that goes to fund us. Again, we'll be right back. Infowars.com is the main
news site. PrisonPlanet.tv. Want to thank you all for being members there as well. We'll
be back with the giant news. I promise straight ahead.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Infowars Biome Defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different
probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function. Our researchers
are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the
market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at InfowarsLife.com
today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally. We've been testing this
formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public. So please take
advantage of it today, support your own health and support the Infowar.
Fuel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfowarsLife. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal
helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your
muscles. Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste, use Carnivore
by InfowarsLife. Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfowarsLife.com.
I want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at InfowarsStore.com. And
this is basically a product that I've been taking anyway before we even launched our
own version of it. Now the product is bodies, whole body support. This is available right
now at a massive 50% discount at InfowarsStore.com. It's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory
support product on the market. It's got the black pepper which makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more. Now we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has
been scientifically proven to have. So I just got this fresh today, literally the seal's
not even being opened on it. It's just $29.95 again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules
in this bottle. It is bodies, the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product
on the market available right now at InfowarsStore.com. Get it today.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that
if you want proven studies and documentation, let me speak for hours on the files I have
here of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this. This is the ultimate immune system
boost for this time of year, any time of the year, but immune wall is incredible and folks.
Other formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80. It's a great deal at $39. Immune
wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf and so much more. It is concentrated. You need to go
read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend. I mean, this is the next level. It's
now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal, beta-glucan,
olive leaf and more. Immune wall, InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLive.com, or triple-A, 2533139.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones, live from Austin,
Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the Infowars.com studios.
I've covered a lot of crazy, bizarre, but real news over the years and I got to tell
you this one tops them all because it's so in your face, but the same time so stealthy
and I'll explain in a moment. Here's the article. It's on Infowars.com. We're about to exclusively
play the video. This aired live over the weekend, but no one picked it up. No one paid attention.
No one thought it was a big deal because it was beta-tested targeting the perfect audience.
Exclusive. ESPN admits to watching you through your television. Ultimate Big Brother technology
rolled out on unsuspecting fans and then we've got the patents and the backstory of it. So
we're not just going to give you the story first. We're going to give you the rest of
the story so as a population we can have a debate about this, but I wanted to read from
the early chapters of 1984, which is not an owner's manual. Somebody ought to explain
that to the technocracy. This is former OSS propagandist and super spy, Eric Blair, aka
George Orwell, head of the Communist Party in England at the time, writing about what
they were planning after he defected back to the West and then blew their entire operation
causing thousands of arrests. That's just recently been declassified. So let's hear
from the former head of the Communist Party, UK, head of the Fabian Socialist, which was
the Communist Party, decided to stop their plan because they were theorizing all this
and he later wrote nonfiction books before he died or white papers admitting it. So
let's read the quote by the top super spy, double agent. He thought of the telescreens
with its never sleeping ear. They would spy upon you night and day, but if you kept your
head, you could still outwit them with all their cleverness. They had never mastered
the secret of finding out what another human being was thinking. Facts at any rate could
not be kept hidden. There could be tracked down by inquiry. They could be squeezed out
of you by torture. But if the object was not to stay alive, but to stay human, what difference
did it ultimately make? They could not alter your feelings. For that matter, you could
not alter them yourself. Even if you wanted to, they could lay bare the utmost detail
everything that you had done or said or thought. But the inner heart, those workings were mysterious
even to yourself, remained impregnable. And then he thinks he's having sex with his girlfriend
even in the woods. And of course he wasn't. They were videotaping that. Now that's a really
smart guy telling you what they were planning. And Aldous Huxley wrote his Brave New World
and later Brave New World Revisited and said, Oh, my brother actually runs the UN program.
We're really going to do this show. And today they're doing it. Show. Here's the article
on info wars.com in the video exclusive ESPN admits to watching you through your TV. Now
there's all these patents and the owners manuals in the terms of service. When you get a quote
new TV, it's really a computer. You think a smart phone's a computer? No, these are
big computers says we're selling your data. We're watching you all the big smart TV companies
for four years. Paul Watson broke that four years ago that Samsung said, watch what you
say. We're watching, we're listening, we're videotaping you and we're selling the data
to third parties and governments. And the news was, look, Cook info wars doesn't like
the fact we're watching. But see, it's one thing to admit it's in the terms of service.
It's another thing to roll it out. Well, how do you do it? You don't say we're going to
have a debate about TVs watching you and security concerns. Now hackers and get in. No, no,
you don't do that. You just suddenly, Oh, your TV is watching what you do in real time.
That was, you know, back in 2004 with Janet Jackson. It knows what you're watching, what
you're doing. It can erase stuff off your DVR. Well, all these years later, 14 years
later, now they go, Oh, look at our Serbian player. He's amazing. Well, we'll show you
the video in a moment. He's an amazing individual. Let's look at his family. Thanks to the amazing
technology of new smart TVs. Let's look at them inside their house in Serbia right now.
Now, again, that's just them rolling out to you that TVs are watching you and TVs are
listening. So what this is, is a propaganda piece. So this is how the listener saw it
and sent it to us Saturday night. I was watching the Arizona NCA basketball game with Bill
Walton, the color guy. You have to find this. They flashed a family of one of the players
watching the game in a living room. It was an odd photo. No, one was smiling and looking
obviously oblivious. Get this Bill Walton. The useful idiot said that it was taken with
incredible new technology through the television. Talk about slipping it in there and breaking
it to us when we're unaware. Insane. You got to find this clip. Well, thank you, sir, because
we did. Now, let's get into it. I have all the patents. I have all the facts. They'll
come out and say we made this up or that's no big deal because they don't want you to
have a debate about it. But we have the patent where the entire screen is a chip basically
that takes your photo and they have little cameras hidden in the middle that take your
photo. We can put those news articles up on screen. We have them on the news article.
But the point is they admit they're watching and listening to you and now they're rolling
it out on national television. And here's one of the patents from 2012 where the LED display
itself is the camera. So you can't turn it off. You can't deactivate it. The screen itself
is the camera. We'll get to that patent number US 13 slash 989 comma 655. There's just there
hundreds of these and the CIA chief admitting they're doing it. The point is though this
is how they're rolling it out. So let's go ahead and show the clip here of this unfolding
and then we'll get into the particular player and the rest of it. Here it is shows it to
him comes right back go one way and come back in the other and get in the air. This guy
is a perfect example of the conference of champions is hometown northwest of Belgrade
the capital 350,000 people right there on the Danube River and tonight their family his
family is watching in the living room at home. And one of the great new technologies that
we have here at ESPN is that we can look at you in your house through your TV. So hi everybody.
It's six in the morning there. They're watching right now. Oh and it's even I guess they're
a Muslim family. So it's cuter. You know the Muslims that came into Albania took over
most of the area kill all the Christians that don't convert. And so you get a little girl
there in the burqa. So this is even more liberal. This is put little girls in hoods. This is
even better. So this Arizona Wildcats versus USC Trojans college basketball game player
do sand wrist stick center for the Arizona Wildcats. You just saw it for yourself. And
they just slip it in where even when I talk about it's a game they're having fun. It's
a family and they do it to wow you go look there in another country. Isn't this just
all fun. And so you see these folks that until just the last 50 years and four different
invasions were Christians. And you've got the blonde haired blue eyed Muslims all sitting
there and they won't be another generation because it's forced and it's just the total
invasion. And again if people were invading Africa and taking over making people convert
something I'd be against it. But it's just everything's propaganda now. We got the Muslim
family and oh look we snapped a picture of them through their TV. Thanks to the great
new technology and of course it's all just a big computer. You're like oh it's just
like Skype it's just like yeah but it's two way and you can't turn it off. And I've got
all the patents and we told you about it first. And does anybody care about this. Remember
when I covered this in 2012 CIA chief will spawn you through your dishwasher. And remember
then three years ago Comey said oh I cover up my webcam because people can dial in and
hack that. Yeah it's not just the government or corporations or the real ones doing it.
It's the criminals. Here's another one. Washington Times big brother alert cameras in the cable
box to monitor TV viewers 2013. We broke all this in 1997. We had the first articles in
the early 10,000s early 2000s and we're just breaking it all. But member Tevo Jackson stunt
most replayed moment ever. And I said see it's watching what you watch and tracking you.
But that's nothing compared to how it's totally controlling your life and physically watching
you. And here's another one. CIA turned Samson smart TVs and listening devices that just
broke last year in the latest CIA hacks. Well of course they are because the TV is designed
to do it. Wire Smart TV is the perfect way to spy on you London Telegraph last year.
But again I told you this 20 years ago and my only point is I told you they'd incrementally
just put it in place and then announce it probably through sports like it's fun and
no big deal. And your children are growing up like it's not even a big deal. At least
the George Arwell Winston Smith character in 1984 recognizes it but he says in the book
oh but the children they're growing into this they don't even know the difference. But another
generation or two it'll be impossible for humanity to ever awaken again. And that's
the plan. Total. Soul. Sucking. Stay with us.
Info Wars Live is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing. This
is pollen blood. In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in published trials in their published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of the research
of fast-acting chewable tablets just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and
fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now
at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free. Triple eight two five three three one three
nine. Every year we spend hundreds of dollars on chocolates, jewelry and sappy cards for
Valentine's Day. It's time to get a gift that will really make the sparks fly with
the info wars life his and hers pack now at 40% off. Get our two fan favorite products
super male vitality and super female vitality that help boost vitality and energy for less.
You've already taken care of Valentine's Day. Make sure you and your significant other
have an incredible Valentine's night. A perfect excuse to get a gift for them and a gift for
yourself. Super male vitality and super female vitality combine ancient wisdom and modern
techniques for truly powerful formulas that you know they'll love. Fuel your body naturally
and celebrate your love today with the info wars life his and hers pack now available
at 40% off at info wars store.com or by calling 888-253-3139. You're listening to the Alex Jones
show. From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
All I want is a future for my children and your children, but we have to be individual
so we can't be controlled by false combines, corporations, cults and groups that want to
overwrite what our true cultural and genetic background expression is because that is
slavery. We have to come together in new systems that are organically produced and directed
by the true spirit and beauty and will of the people guided by God's spirit. God's
hand. God's finger. And that's where we are. And you see the Vatican coming on and saying
we worship communism. It is the ultimate phone of goodness. China is so loving to its people.
And you're like, this is upside down. That's what Satanism is. Torturing small children
to death and drinking their blood while they beg for mommy over long periods of time is
liberal and loving and a sacrament of the modern Catholic church because it's not Christian,
it's not Catholic, it's globalist that have taken it over. Vatican, China, best example
of church and social doctrine. And then today, hundreds of child porn images, LSD, ecstasy
found in Boise Priest home. Prosecutor says though how they found out about him is he
was trying to get online to find people who would help him kidnap because he desired to
rape and kill children. Prosecutor Kathleen Guzman said in the probable cause hearing
earlier, you like how pedophile arrest and devil or spur arrest are up. I've got to
do the numbers. I looked at it last year, like 400% last time I checked. And the media
has all these headlines. Jones is hoaxing people. There's no move against pedophiles.
Well tell that to prosecutor Guzman because you can bet as they kick the door in on ring
leaders. See what Trump's doing with the, the, the patriots and intelligence agencies
that are patriots, there's bad guys in there too. But in the white hat secret societies
as they're called, it isn't just the FBI liberals that called it a secret society.
That's all these agencies are. There's like a 50 CIA, six or seven big ones I know of,
five FBI's. There's a leftist FBI, a communist FBI, a Christian FBI, a veteran FBI, a Mormon
FBI and a lot of them overlap each other. There's a straight up FBI. Most of those people end
up just doing the grunt work. Oh, you're a good person. Oh, you really care about, oh,
it'll do with bank robberies and kidnappings when they come up and white collar crime.
Bye bye. Oh no, you go deal with some guy that stole a million dollars, not a billion. You
just go there. That's how it works. And that's how it works. It's all tests. But it's, it's,
it's just like Christ on the cross next to the thief. One guy listens to him and the
other doesn't. The other guy says, I want absolution. I want to be with you in paradise.
He says, you'll be with me tonight in paradise and gives up the ghost because I know people
who aren't bad souls, who've done a lot of horrible things, but it's like King David's
spirit. He did it because the circumstance, the system, the seduction, the peer pressure,
the deception. But when the reception was revealed, they understood and repented and
were generally bad. It didn't mean they did bad things when, oh, I repent, the little
magic ceremony. It meant they actually did repent and then saw it and then didn't do
it again. At least that sin. But some of the best people fighting evil are those that
have done evil because they know how the enemy operates. They know the lies. They know how
you don't get power out of it. You get affliction. That's the archetype. It's why, for all the
cheesiness of Star Wars, they went and did Joseph Campbell stuff and Carl Jung, the emperor
to get his power. Garth Fetter, any of it has to lose arms, legs, be mutated, be ugly,
like Hitler being nerve-gassed in World War I to get the power they have to give up their
humanity to become ugly. You can't have something beautiful and pure that does all this evil.
You can get the power, but you're going to give up your real power to get it. The only
question is how many of us were evil for a while before we pulled out and kept some
of our humanity? We'll be right back. Stay with us.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by Info Wars Life. For those who want
to increase testosterone and energy levels, most men know that testosterone levels begin
to decline starting around 30 at a rate of about 1-2% per year. This drop can show signs
such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss. Alpha power is packed with
some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market. The secret is in
the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into their most
potent forms, including uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo from Peru,
horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India. Reach your alpha male potential with
alpha power. Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
Put Nancy Pelosi when she says he wants to make America white again and that's what this
is about. I think a lot of President Trump's rhetoric
is racist and let's be very clear. When someone uses the phrase change migration, it is intentional
in trying to demonize families, literally trying to demonize families and make it a racist
slur. It is not right. Why is it that the Democrats think Americans
are dying to listen to them turn any term they can get their grubby little paws on into
a weapon of racism? One would think that for every person duped
into being angry about the term chain migration, there are five people furious that a white
senator would even twist the words chain migration in order to foment racism and division.
My friend who's a great comedy writer, Jim Downey, he's accused of being a right wing
writer, a comedy writer, if there is such a thing sort of. He says no, no, I just think
the way that the Democrats don't think it's poor, the way they try to pick out little
pieces of a population where we represent the Hispanics, we represent the LGBT or something,
and they're not speaking to everyone at once and it's almost a meaning to say I'm choosing
you because you're a splinter group or you're a certain minority group. There's almost
a resentment that somehow you're separated again by a politician, you know, you're my
people, I'm in control of you and I represent you, instead of thinking that each citizen
has a right to be respected as a citizen for someone under the laws of the country. Chain
migration simply means that legalized or green card carrying family members are able to sponsor
immigrant family members, thus creating a chain that goes on forever. But the Democrats
think otherwise. I have sinned against you, my lord. Like a guilty TV evangelist that
won't let up on pornography, the minds of the Democrats are brimming with racism as
a means to play political football, inserting their virtue signaling madness into an immigration
debate that requires compromise and sanity. I think chain migration is another word that's
been weaponized by critics mostly on the right of the debate to sort of generate ill will
toward immigrants, even those who are coming legally. You're saying when they get here,
because these people are more vulnerable, if they come in on this program, they're then
subject to exploitation more easily? No, what I'm saying is that the next is the terrorism.
The next is the terrorism is that if you have a visa program that is easily exploited by
malefied actors, including terrorists, because I don't know that he didn't come in on the
visa program. He came in as an extended family based immigrant. But I'm saying with respect
to the diversity visa program, which is also at play here, that program is, as the State
Department IG found 15 years ago, and is a GAO confirmed in 2007, exploitable by terrorists
or malefied actors because the criteria are so low and easily faked. And it's a lottery.
So there's multiple levels. It's just, it's an open door. It's problematic. It needs
to shut. The White House website reports under our current immigration system, around 70%
of legal immigrants admitted to the United States every year do so based on family ties
rather than merit. A recent joint report from the Department of Justice and the Department
of Homeland Security found that roughly three and four individuals convicted of international
terrorism related charges since September 11th, 2001 were foreign born. As the report
outlines, a number of these terrorists were able to enter the United States on the basis
of family ties and extended family chain migration. This is why the average American cringes whenever
the Democrats speak, touting their vague racist sentiments over our national security. Don't
you think most Americans were a wee bit insulted after former President Obama chose a portrait
artist that depicted black people beheading white people? Is that what the Democrats call
unity? John bound reporting for info wars.com. It's the Democratic Party that opposed the
civil rights act of Eisenhower and of Richard Nixon when he was vice president. It's the
Democratic Party that threatened my grandmother and called us inward lovers in East Texas
because they were for desegregation. And it was their great victory to then after the
Republican Southern strategy to come in and rebrand themselves as the ones fighting racism,
but they just taught all the minorities how to be incredible tribal racist hate mongers.
And so now you've got the Democratic Party openly, massively pushing race war in this
country. It is truly sickening and it shows how diabolical they are. Roger Stone's here
with us. We're going to go to other topics in a moment, but just putting bookends on
this. Chain migration with the State Department under the UN previously told Trump killed
this six months ago under Obama. The UN, this is mainstream news, decided who was allowed
to come in. They certified it under the migrant operation. And then they brought the people
in who would have many convictions, 30, 40 deportations, rapes, murders, killings. And
the left gets up there when I can't go to Mexico and get free health care or be a criminal
allowed in or I have to leave when they sack. I can't go anywhere. But the idea that if
we have a border and vet anybody when we're so open that we're bad, people aren't buying
this.
Hi, Alex. I couldn't agree more. Look, the historical record is absolutely clear. It
was Lincoln who emancipated the slaves. It was Richard Nixon who desegregated the public
schools, gave us affirmative action, increased seven fold funding for civil rights enforcement
at the Justice Department, quadrupled the funding for black colleges. It's Donald Trump
who's brought African American unemployment to the lowest point since we've been keeping
track of it. The congressional black caucus couldn't be more out of touch with the needs
and desires of the average African American because they want a population. It's true.
It's the Republicans who are good, a lot of bad ones that are trying to emancipate people.
It's the Democrats of the KKK trying to keep them under control and spewing all the race.
Crap. No one is going to turn the average white person racist when they see the president
on TV with a guy showing black women cutting white people's heads off. And I'm telling
folks not to buy into this, but this is getting ridiculous.
You know, what's interesting and heartening to me as I travel, Alex, is that I find more
and more individual black people, just people who come up to me and say, you know, you're
absolutely right. The Democrats left us behind. We like what you're saying. We want to own
a piece of the American pie. I want to own my own factory, a guy said to me when I was
in Florida. I don't want to be an employee. I want to be an employer.
And notice Trump kept showing not the little cliche of, look, this black guy's a doctor.
Of course, black can be a doctor. Of course, the left made fun of, you know, the black
brain surgeon that, you know, Trump has hired. Oh, that's just a toga black guy. Trump showed
all those black entrepreneurs from nowhere that have hundreds and hundreds of employees
and are making all this money and helping America. He was lionizing the black entrepreneur.
That's what they hate. No, the Democratic Party is the party of the poverty pimps. They
seek to make people make black people reliant on the on the welfare state as opposed to
proposing or proposing policies that are pro-growth and pro-opportunity.
What do you make of Bill Murray coming out and saying political correctness is evil.
It's suppressing minorities. It's turning them into just an identity instead of a person
that there's leaders they put over them that basically control them and enslave them. I
mean, he clearly went out on a limb here with the facts. I mean, he's right about the facts,
but they're going to try to attack him. Even though he's called a leftist icon, he can
now see what's going on and speaking out against him. That's got to really shake him up.
Well, I also think the context was important because he's absolutely right. It makes comedy
impossible to do because they're hypersensitive. You can't make a joke. There are no jokes.
They take everything verbatim. When I was in England, I just heard the same thing over
and over again. Racist, racist, racist. You're a racist. You're a racist. You're a Russian.
You're a racist. You're a racist. You're a racist. You're a Russian. They slide the Russian
thing in there. No, it's like seven or eight racists and then a Russian. But they're the
racists. They're the ones who gave us the 1994. It is ours. Like, I guess the next thing
is going to be rapist business. Yeah, well, that fits them.
Russian rapist. Yeah. I mean, look, the 1994 crime bill is given to us by Bill and Hillary.
You know, if you are caught with rock cocaine, the mandatory penalties are much harsher than
if you are caught with powdered cocaine. This is a Clinton policy. That is a racist policy.
It was Hillary who played the dog whistle. It was Hillary who said black people needed
to be brought to heel. So I'm heart and yesterday there was a terrific demonstration against
a number of Republican pastors against the congressional black caucus. That community
is waking up. That's right. And of course, when you were talking about the crime bill,
she said blacks are animals that have to be controlled, horrible, racist stuff, a video.
Google then would click and crime bill would block that and not let you see it. So they're
Googles. They're trying to cover up when she said blacks were animals. We'll be back.
Here's a special message for those of you who owe the IRS at least 10,000 or more in
back taxes. The IRS has special programs in place that could eliminate or reduce your
tax debt by thousands of dollars. Call the federal tax management helpline that has
been set up for you 800 503 86 25 stop the wage garnishments, levies and tax leans. Now,
since you've qualified and enrolled, the IRS will stop all the collection activities
against you. These unique programs have been allocated to help the economy and significantly
reduce or eliminate your tax burden. The IRS is currently accepting reduced settlements
and other favorable programs. You may qualify for substantial savings. So get the help you
need. If you owe more than 10,000 in taxes, call for free information and to see if you
qualify. Take down the number now for the federal tax management hotline 800 503 86
25. That's 800 503 86 25 800 503 86 25. Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents? Are you happy paying high prices? Find your
happiness with pure soap. These all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best
you've ever used. Buy in bulk. Get a 12 36 or 48 month supply or get items individually
and still save big. You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now. Earth
friendly and natural soaps. Your family deserves the best. Happiness is five star soap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change? See them at five star soap.com or call 1 800
340 7091 for a catalog. Cal Bend soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give
you good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable
and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at five star soap.com. That's F I
V E star soap.com or call 1 800 340 7091 for a catalog.
Matt, Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt. Go ahead. Yeah. Hey, listen, I just wanted
to say real quick. I'm a long time listener of in fours and I just wanted to say that
the t shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic. And that really is a
great way to deal with this battle in the in four might seem like a simple thing, but
they particularly these slogan t shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't
tread on me. And it's a big day glow snake. Gads and snake. And then it's got the American
flag info wars.com on the right arm. I mean, that's a great way just to meet like minded
people and spread the word and also exercise free speech. And the newest one is trigger
warning t shirt trigger warning t shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign
in the info wars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively
an info wars store.com. I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes
here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t shirts or water filtration
systems or books or videos or other material from info wars store.com, you are funding
the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clear. And so it is essential that you purchase
the products at info wars store.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've
got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic
iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed
by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life.com
or triple A to five, three, three, one, three, nine. And your purchase of the products stands
with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic
pedophile armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're
coming back against us. So we need your support. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Just a good old boy, just a good old boy, never meeting no harm, never meeting no harm.
They told you never saw me in trouble with the law since the day they was born.
Someday the mountain might get him, but the law never will. God's the mountain. We're
under God's plan. Not the establishment. Just some good old boys. You know, my mama loves
me. We're back live here. Roger Stone riding shotgun with me to this hour, right into the
next hour, right into the next hour. Roger, former head of the Trump campaign, bestselling
author, political strategist, best buddies, Richard Nixon, you name it. The only member
of the plumbers not to go to jail because you weren't involved. A piece of living history
here with us involved in 10 campaigns. Big stuff during the break. You're about to give
folks I know next hour when you host the fourth hour, but start giving us the hors d'oeuvre
or the, uh, all of your great aplomb about the huge moment we're at and the battle inside
Trump landia and the things that are unfolding right now. Well, Alex, I think the truth is
General John Kelly is toast. I think there's evidence. You said that first six months ago,
but now it's, but now I think it's manifest. It's very clear that he knew about the allegations
of spousal abuse against Rob Porter, uh, and that he promoted Porter anyway. And the reason
for this is because Kelly aspires to be secretary of defense sometime in the next two to three
years and you can't leave a position in Trump world unless you have a someone to take your
place. So Porter was being groomed to be the next White House chief of staff. Porter has
been one of those staffers actively involved in blocking the president from seeing info
wars, the daily caller, Breitbart, any conservative alternative media, gateway, pundit, a lot
of other, but particularly info wars, particularly because they, we don't want the president to
learn any inconvenient truths. He might watch info wars and get the facts. And then when
he gets the facts, he acts on them. He says, why are we doing this? Or how come I don't
know about this? So they try to make their lives easier by hiding certain things from
the president. Now the question is, who will, who will replace Kelly? Uh, and there's a
number of factions kind of swirling around with their own candidates. Uh, and the president
being Donald Trump's playing his cards very close to the vest. We can confirm that he
asked Tom Barrick, the chairman of colony capital, a real estate opportunity fund in
Los Angeles, his best friend, Barrick's literally his best friend. He's the BB Robozo of this
administration, someone the president confides in, someone the president trusts completely.
But Mr. Barrick, who had a bad experience in government during the Reagan days, uh,
you know, and who's worth a couple billion on his own, declined this high honor. He'll
support the president in any way he can, but he's kind of a shadow consiglier. I think
he's someone the president goes to for, for solid advice and who somebody the president
knows he can speak to. And there's zero chance of a leak. Tom Barrick's the most loyal guy
in the world. He's an enormously capable guy and he'd be a great White House chief
of staff, but I don't think he is interested in the job. He's not, he's not a, he's not
a fatal masochist. Well, he, he's also, you know, he, he, his loyalty is to Donald Trump
personally. Uh, and he knows that this is combat duty at his age and his station of
life. I don't think he wants to take this on. That's the same thing Trump almost did
because of this. And, and, and people say, okay, chief of staff who cares. The point
is, is it's now all coming out. Kelly's now, you know, free game out there with what's
happening. How does this affect the Republic and what we're trying to do to battle the
globalist? Well, we got to hope that the new White House chief of staff, depending on
who that is, it will lift the iron curtain. I mean, I had somebody, uh, a good friend,
a friend of this show who was with the president at Marlago and said that he has these four
guys who go everywhere and they're like minders. They look identical. They dress identical.
Their job is to intercept anybody who's trying to talk to, uh, or give anything to the president.
If you're having a conversation with the president, say, in a, uh, in a, uh, a cocktail party
type setting, they're suddenly there, you know, with their ears. If you try to hand
the president something, a letter, a piece of paper, they'll say, I'll take that. So,
uh, you know, they're trying to keep the president in a cocoon. I've known him 40 years. He doesn't
like being in a cocoon. He likes to know everything. And when he finds out things that he should
have known, but nobody told him, that really makes him angry.
So who are they talking about? Jack Mesobic likes Congressman Gates, your friend. Well,
that Gates, I think is, um, is a great guy. I think he's of great value to us in Congress
because unlike half, unlike most of those guys with the obvious exceptions of Trey Gowdy,
he's not a coward. So I'm asking you, who is good then? Well, let's see. And the number
of people here, uh, David Urban, who is, uh, allegedly in line for the job of ambassador
to Saudi Arabia was considered previously. He's a Trump loyalist. Some people believe
that, uh, that, uh, they misunderstand his politics. He was the chief of staff to Senator
Arlen Spector, who is the toughest, smartest, most difficult member of the Senate. If you
can manage the Senate office of Arlen Spector, you can manage the White House. Whether Urban
would take the job. I don't know. Wayne Berman, veteran Republican Rainmaker, uh, veteran
of both Reagan and Bush administrations. Uh, Sean Hannity has been advocating Berman.
Uh, Mick Mulvaney, current member of the cabinet, although I think he aspires to go back home
and run for governor. Uh, those are some of the names. So let's shift gears then. The
big issue. Talk about Benedict Arnold, Mary's unisuscarriot and has a evil goblin baby.
Uh, Bannon is on TV saying, Oh, women are taking over. Trump's a misogynist. He's the
ultimate leftist now, darling. But he goes on Breitbart radio skill because I love the
president. I love the president to that audience and then runs around stabbing him in the back,
just foaming at the mouth. And the word is, and I've been hearing this, that he is like
making stuff up to the council, even though he wasn't involved in the campaign and all
this rush of stuff supposedly happened. Uh, I don't believe I'm not baby Bannon. We're
talking about Steve Bannon. Look, um, as I've said here, pardon me, Bannon's actions are
a stunning betrayal to a man who, who elevated him to the highest possible honors you could
have in public service. Uh, and I understand that he is, uh, he is cooperating with Mueller.
I believe he has an interview with Mueller this week, but I don't believe this has anything
whatsoever to do with Russia. Alex, I think that he is, he is trying to, uh, entrap the
president in some kind of business related thing that you've been saying don't meet with
him. And now the White House lawyers had said they would meet. Now they're saying no, no,
the lawyers have come around to my point of view. That's absolutely true. Where the president
is on this, we still don't know, but being Donald Trump, he left himself that out even
when he said, I'll meet with Mueller. I'm not afraid to meet with Mueller subject, of course,
to the agreement of my lawyer. So he left himself on out. This is the most obvious perjury
trap. Mueller ought to have his ass indicted and then, and all these FBI top people given
money to fusion GPS. I said that was always the issue of Justice Department funding that
Hillary giving, uh, McCabe's wife, a half million. They ought to all be, the assets
ought to be indicted right now, man. Uh, arrogant. No, there's, there's no question about this.
Uh, I don't think that the Trump administration can survive until the president gets control
of his own Justice Department. He does not have control of the Justice Department. And
what do they have on, on, on the, the attorney general? I mean, he is just, uh, he's out
to launch. I can't tell whether he is compromised, Alex, or whether he is, or whether he is,
uh, uh, whether he's seen. I had old, maybe had a stroke, but he's not himself. He's
not the guy I knew in the campaign. He's not the guy who was really the leader on immigration
issues. He's a different person. That means that Rod Rosenstein continues to be the de facto
attorney general. And that guy is a rat. He is a Quizley. He was one of the key captains
running the whole fake Russia gate situation who created the special turdlet known as Robert,
uh, globalist butt boy. We'll be right back.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with
detergents? Are you happy paying high prices? Find your happiness with pure soap. These
all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used. Buy in bulk.
Get a 12, 36 or 48 months supply or get items individually and still save big. You're getting
soap products twice as good as what you're using now. Earth friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best. Happiness is five star soap.com. Why not put your money
up the drain for a change? See them at five star soap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a
catalog. Cal Bend Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old
fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at five star soap.com. That's F-I-V-E star soap.com
or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Info Wars Wipe is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen block. In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in their published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable
tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen
block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress. Enjoy the
air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll three. Triple A 253-3139.
You know I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com but instead
of going on those talking points let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives, tales and every culture we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again in every culture this
has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this ladies and gentlemen is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula
out there and it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarslife.com, what it
could do for your family and again I want to thank you all for your support. You are
funding the information war in 2018. Introducing Floralife, the new probiotic line developed
exclusively by infowarslife. After years of research on the human microbiome not all probiotics
are made the same. Floralife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses
the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect. This is critical
because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery
probiotic then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet. Floralife supports your body's
core where you need it most including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why
increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health. Floralife is sold as a
15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day
advanced gut restoration program. Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of
Floralife probiotics today. That's infowarslife.com.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alright, I was talking to Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign, Trump Confidant
about what he thinks Trump's doing wrong. Because we can talk about what Trump's doing
good all day. We know he's a good guy over all the globals for attacking him and they're
out to get him. But Roger, we were talking during the break and I was making the points
that Rand Paul's right, we've got too much debt. But China's had five times the debt
when you actually look at their rigged economy. They're expanding, they're building real
infrastructure and we're in a debt war right now and the whole world's just going into
more debt. So now it's fiat. If we use debt building to actually rebuild infrastructure,
we know that creates real jobs that are based on people. And America was built with bubbles.
Let's not lie about that. And then I see Boyd Blankfein and Goldman Sachs bragging earlier
last year saying, oh, I was in China, their infrastructure is much bigger, much better.
You can forget it. And so I'm for infrastructure. So I understand Rand Paul's perspective. I
understand the other perspective. But beyond being a pragmatist, I'm looking at the reality
of how they're trying to maneuver the U.S. into being deindustrialized, being shut down.
I see the exuberance. I see everything coming back with them trying to block it. So you
could say Trump's right to go ahead and let there be a bubble for the people to build
infrastructure and bring back optimism, especially all the other countries are going to keep
inflating anyway. So it's not going to matter. The problem is though, that then it's Goldman
Sachs again, who's trying to sabotage it. Well, they can't just stop the funding from
happening. They'll make sure it goes to what they want and does nothing because they've
got a big raging, you know what? For this country, they run the whole new world order.
They run the whole Hollywood globalist system and the very same globalist fund of the takedown
of Russia before. This is the takedown of America so they can dictate the terms of surrender
to the people of this globalist clique. So where do you stand that whole navigation of
that situation, making the right decision to accelerate the economy like a shot in the
heart of adrenaline? The defibrillator isn't working. The person's going to die. Hit him
with adrenaline. Get it going. He hit us with a small shot. It got us going. We're getting
better. They're trying to bring us back into a coma. He's back with the shot again. Again,
how do you describe that whole situation?
Well, first of all, let's talk about what the president's done right. This tax cut,
the biggest tax cut in American history, even though the House and Senate Republicans did
load it up with some Christmas tree aspects for Wall Street, is still going to turbo charge
the economy. It still has the potential once it gets traction to really, I think, put us
in a great position for 2018 and beyond politically, plus get the economy really cooking. If they
would give the president his plan for inversion, that will only speed things up. I must tell
you though, Alex, I'm very disappointed in the infrastructure proposal that he unveiled
yesterday. This was written by Goldman Sachs. What it does is it shifts responsibilities
back to the states. It mandates to the states. It forces the states into public-private partnerships,
but it doesn't give the states anything. It doesn't give them a line of credit. It doesn't
give them any funding. It's an excuse for Goldman Sachs to sell more muni bonds, is
what it is. Now, this is the brainchild of Gary Cohn. Let me remind you who he is.
So instead of nationalism, we'll talk about him, instead of nationalism, it's globalism
inrun around Trump right to the states. Exactly. And what they've done here, remember, Gary
Cohn is the president's chief economic advisor. He's the guy who wanted the president to sign
the Paris climate. And he openly badmouthed the president when he thinks he's not watching.
He also is the guy who wanted the carbon tax credits, tried to sell the president on that,
rejected. Now, Mr. Cohn would very much like to be the White House chief of staff. I believe
he is the candidate of the president's son-in-law and daughter. And he's a liberal Democrat
from Goldman Sachs. This would be a classic mistake. And I think rank and file Trump supporters
would revolt. Expanding on that, Netanyahu obviously is a friend of America overall.
People demonize him so much because they don't like him as a nationalist. They're trying
to indict him for his wife having government chefs for dignitary meetings cook food at
their house. I thought presidents, that's the dirt they've got. And so now the police
want indictments. They want to take him out. It's in the Soros documents of WikiLeaks.
They want to overthrow Israel and have the U.N. come in with the Vatican. I mean, all
these Israel haters better get it through their head that that's just a bunch of PR hype.
Israel's a bunch of different diverse groups of political views and religious views. And
Saudi Arabia won't take one Palestinian or one Muslim from Syria or Libya. And so this,
I mean, you can see they're trying to take down nationalists everywhere. Hillary's in
an article today on m4s.com I hadn't gotten to where they say we will, you know, have
the new world order. We're going to win. I forgot to cover that. You know, we're unstoppable.
I mean, it's so obvious what's happening. What do you make of that? Well, look, they're
fighting the tide of history. That's their problem. What's amazing in all honesty was
you talk about Russian interference in our election, the Obama administration poured
hundreds of millions of dollars and deeply interfered in the Israeli elections to take
down Netanyahu's party. And they failed against all odds. This is their plan B. These trumped
up ridiculous charges. And that's where I meant to go. And he gave a gratuity to a
chef. Let's put him in jail. I mean, this is ridiculous. It's absurd. But he is a he's
emerging as a major Trump ally. If you watch that joint press conference with the president
last week, you notice where they went. Immediately he praises the president for moving the capital
to Jerusalem. And then the president goes into a direct attack on the Iranian nuclear
deal, which is the greatest fraud in American history. And Netanyahu says, Mr. President,
we have your back. If you decide to unravel that, we are with you. This is the kind of
guy. Let me ask you that. It's all with you. Because again, racist on all sides, racist
black, sale whites are bad and racist white sale blacks are bad or whatever. But really,
you look at the Nazi collaborators, Soros documents, all the rest of it. It's all these
weird, crazy, anti Jewish leftist Jews who have a fetish for bringing down Israel and
a fetish for attacking the West Christianity, any of it. What are they getting out of it?
Why? Why do they want to this little tiny country want to blow it up and hand it over
to people that'll be killing each other forever fighting over who controls it? And like since
when does NBC and CNN praise North Korea? How beautiful the dictator's daughter is and
how horrible our vice president is. I mean, it's not North Korea buttering their bread.
Where is the hatred of America and the love of North Korea? Well, why? Why just hate
Israel for no reason. I mean, it just goes on and on and on and on. And it's like so
crazy. But it's really, I hate to say it. It's all about Trump. And in other words,
anything he is for, they're against. They weren't upset when Barack Obama was picked
up on a hot mic saying to Vladimir Putin, wait till after the election, I'll have much
more flexibility and giving you whatever you want, essentially. Where were they then?
Why weren't they going crazy then? Yes, you imagine if Trump said that, but David Brock
yesterday announces that he's filing a complaint with the FEC over allegations that the president
had sex with a porn star and then paid her off. Brock, where were you when Bill Clinton
paid $750,000 to Paula Jones? That was a non-constitutional. Even if Trump did that, it's not a federal
elections commission violation. If 12 years ago, something like that happened. It's absurd.
But there's no, there's no consistency there. In other words, these people are demented.
Well, if it was, I mean, if it was like a airplane full of small children with Bill
Clinton and Jerry Epstein, then that wouldn't be an issue. You got to cover that up. Yeah.
No, look, it's the hypocrisy of these people. I mean, the whole left would want to cover
that up. The hypocrisy of this is extraordinary. So where is it all going as they just battle
and battle and you're crazier and crazier? Well, the way this usually works, unfortunately,
is when you have an outsider like Donald Trump, first they try to discredit you, then they
try to destabilize you, and then they co-opt you. Sure, there's some things I'm disappointed
in. I don't know why we're still in Syria. I don't know why we're still in Afghanistan.
I think that generals are misleading the president on that. Yes, everything in Afghanistan will
collapse when we withdraw, but that's true if we all draw tomorrow. It's a collapse-filled
society of inbred. Let's just, the facts are, they're almost all inbred mental patients,
cavemen from planet Pop-Tart. Right. And it's all going to collapse into the toilet
when we leave, no matter when that is. So we're just buying time with American dollars,
which are borrowed, and American lives. Makes no sense to me. The president was elected
as a non-interventionist. On the foreign policy front, he's got the north and the south
right. Well, the globalists just use it as a way to sap the U.S. We pull out, it'll make
Pakistan and China go in there and get sapped even worse. It's a sabotage against our country
that we're even in. Sesh pool, crap hole, you know what hole, devil's stand. We'll be
right back. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic
formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to
keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Info wars
life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Get on over to info wars life.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's info wars life.com.
Michael ZX is back. And just like we're game changing when it comes to politics, when it
comes to the economy, we're game changing on supplements. I want to bring you products
from the best research out there, from the best labs, the best laboratories, the best
scientists that really change lives. Because I want you to get a great effect. I want you
to have a great life, be healthy. I want you to see the results. So you reorder it and
tell your friends and family about it. You say a fungus is a scourge molds a scourge
and you can't battle it with this in your sinus or other areas, but your gut, the main
area you can. Michael ZX available exclusively been out for over six months. And then Forge
life.com or by calling toll free triple A two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Ladies and gentlemen, I only bring you products. I use myself. I only bring you products that
have been proven to have dynamite effects. Michael ZX is back in stock right now in Forge
life.com. Secure yours today.
Thanks for spending time with us.
lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure. And rest
secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWare.
That's infowarslives.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action
now before we sell out.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic
firms in the country, that if you want proven studies and
documentation, let me speak for hours on the files I have here
of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this. This is
the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any
time of the year. But immune wall is incredible at folks. Other
formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80. It's a great
deal at $39. Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so
much more. It is concentrated. You need to go read what is in
here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality
mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate. A citrus peel blend.
I mean, this is the next level. It's now available, ladies
and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal, beta
-glucan, olive leaf, and more. Immune wall, infowarslives.com,
infowarslives.com, or triple A, 2533139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, Roger Stone is here. He's going to be hosting the
fourth hour right into the war room with Owen Schreuer. Doing
some plugging. I said, hey, I got a plug coming in. He said,
oh, I want to talk about brain force. I've tried a lot of
neutrophics, a lot of natural brain pills. I know you're
into herbology and Chinese medicine and the rest of it,
but we just set out looking at whatever the best sellers were
already fusing two or three of the top brands together and then
cutting the price massively. So you're getting one of 50,
60, $70 Neutrophic for like $30 right now. Brain force plus.
Tell us what you think about it. Here's the thing. I just did
a tour of the United Kingdom where I it was intense. I did
three major speeches. I did Oxford. I did Durham and I did
Cambridge and then I did media events in between, including
an extraordinary beat down of the BBC where they tried to
trip me up and I destroyed them. It wouldn't have been possible
without brain force. The thing I like about this, Alex, is it
gives you a mental clarity and a mental lift, the ability to
work another six hours. But then you're not so amped up that
you can't sleep. It has no carryover effect. You're not
jittery. You're not amped up. You can sleep that night and
then I pop one as soon as I start to have mental fatigue and
I'm like, oh, I'm done for the day. Two of these and you're
like back on the rim part. And I was about to say I was bragging
ahead and had the flu in like eight years. But this is the
record since like 1999. Boom got it three days ago and I've
still been at work all the rest of that. But I said, man, I am
I am dying because I had coffee this morning and a little bit
of tea. You know, iced tea with lunch. We got Cabo Bob's
today for the crew for Valentine's Day for everybody and
you know, great little joint of Patriots. You're like, dude,
your own product brain force. Let's take one. So we're doing
it right now. Not as a staged event here. This is what we're
really doing because I got a long way to go in a short time
to get there and a lot of work behind the scenes. He's about
to be hosting for hours and hours and I, you know, fever
went away yesterday. I was up here with 101 fever. So on
air 103 that before but I still feel like I've been run over
by a freight train today. But everybody else been getting
this doesn't stick for a week. Well, I'm blessed. I had the
flu and it's my own fault because I should have gotten
immune wall sooner sooner than I did. And it hung on for a
month. And then when I hit the immune wall, which and the it's
the olive it's the olive leaf oil that's in there, which is
really hard to find inequality. I turn the so you know your
stuff. That's why you ought to be like ahead of our operations
promotions because you you really are in I've seen your
suitcases full of this stuff. And like you said, wow, your
stuff really is top one. Now we go out and you're right. If I
took see, I'm so arrogant. I'll say this last week for I could
say I'm like, I've got the flu everybody else hasn't seen. I
go but I don't even take my own stuff because there's so much
show that I take the X2 always. And then I take some rainforest
vanity and I take super mail here and there and I've got all
these but there's so many great products. I'm like I haven't
taken the allergy pollen blocks. It's really helped. But
then I asked myself why allergies day. Oh, where's my
pollen block? It's like crazy. It really works. But we're
not you're like Trump. I'm like Trump. I don't even ever
take aspirin. But this isn't at last aspirin from a plant
to this is from Mother Nature. We should be taking them
more. Well, if you go back and you looked at our shows on
Monday, you know, I was losing my voice. I was raspy. I was
tired. I hit the silver colloidal formula. And my voice
you called me you said I bullet is incredible. Yeah, it really
is stuff works couple tops. I do it. Listen, listen. It was
a was it Sunday night sun Sunday night. I did the show went
drop my children off with their visit their mother. And I'm
driving home and I'm like man, especially they punched me in
the chest. That's how it starts this flu. Yeah. And then I
went to bed and woke up with a fever and I just went in right
half a bottle. You're not supposed to do that. You can get
it is it is toxic. It's why it kills stuff. But it's it's
approved all that stuff. And I mean, but proof of hostages
I went boom, gargle that and it was like immediately got a
lot better. And I think that's why I wasn't so ill as most
of the people. Well, it's awesome. You've had members of
the crew, you know, that have had a flu in a decade. They
wouldn't stick for two weeks. Well, it's the synergy. In
other words, if you do mineral fusion, and you and you stack
it with immune wall and the silver colloidal, it just
torques up your own natural immunity like that. You feel
like a new person. Well, silver is an antiviral. It's an
antibacterial above 30 parts per million. They can get it a
lot smaller. It is very toxic. 30 parts that's seen as
generally safe. But all antibiotics are poison folks.
Let's not lie to you. You know, but that's why the ancients
every culture said the royalty ate off silver even above
gold. You know, the silver spoon in the mouth your baby
because they knew even keeping food in silver containers
made it last longer. Yeah, it's a it's a great product.
And as you point out when when people you can go to the
drugstore, by the way, you can go to Walmart or CVS and you'll
find formulas that say they do the same thing as our stuff.
And by the way, and they're you these fillers, they use
substandard ingredients. Just like the Liberty movement
led this. I remember being on air 23 years ago and people
calling me because I was like, I don't need vitamins. I don't
need nothing. I'm working out every day. I'm in great shape.
Yeah, I'm 23 years old. They're like the coil silver Alex
is incredible for topical or credible for that. I'm like,
yeah, whatever. And finally, I researched it. My dad's, you
know, a doctor chemist and and world surgeon. He said, No,
son, it's an ancient, you know, known, antibiotic, you know,
the blow oblige. It's real, but it's got to be too small a
particle. They say it's better. So I sort of having the
sponsors. And then like 10 years later, start seeing it CVS
Walgreens. Now you go in hospitals. They're not spraying
iodine. They're spraying silver to kill Jeremy's iodine quit
working. I'm not knocking iodine. I don't go on a whole ramp
and absolutely info wars with our audience. We the Liberty
movement first, we pioneered silver. And like you said,
it's everywhere now. Yeah, it's interesting because the
mainstream media makes fun of us for for promoting a line of
natural supplements. The point I don't think they get is we
have no corporate sponsors. There's nobody saying, Alex,
you can't say that Alex, you can't cover that subject. It's
too sensitive. So it gives us journalistic freedom. And it
pays for the expansion folks. I have seen the new studio here
in construction. It's state of the art. It will just blow
your mind. Satellite up links. Yeah, it's going to be
unreal. But let's go further. Jeff Bezos $112 billion bought
all foods bought everything. He's downgrading the quality.
It's his own people admit it. And Jeff Bezos. I know supplements
now. I mean, I've been into him for 10 years longer. But I
mean, really into it for like seven. I know the brands in
there. I know the manufacturers where they've got $1 in the
product is 40 bucks. ours has got $15 a product is $35 I can
show it. I'm gonna start showing this with the blurred out
contracts. We've got people that have agreed to do it at the
companies. And I'm going to show what we're doing at the same
factories versus what they're doing. And then he's got his own
Washington Post attacking me saying I'm ripping people off
supplements or a scam when he's the biggest supplement seller
in the world and has some great names. He has the very best
in their third party. He's come out with all his own labeled
stuff. It's pure crap. So I'm coming after him. I mean, he is
just a monster, man. He is a monster. He doesn't even want
I hate him. I like it. I like the idea taking some of the
whole foods products and combining them with ours and
just going head to head in terms of the quality. We know all
the manufacturers. We know who's making it. We know who private
labels. So these to be hundreds of products, a lot of great
companies most now they're getting rid of all that. It's all
their private label. It doesn't even say whole foods. They're
bringing in that to displace everything. And I'm just saying
we know everything he's involved in is crap. Well, the other
thing I think we do that the others do is you constantly
are taking the best of the old and the new and over you get
some of the finest Chinese herbs that have been used for
centuries and have a proven efficacy. And then you you blend
them with cutting edge nutraceuticals that are modern
and you come up with formulas that are really outstanding.
You really are smart. I'm not just saying that because I didn't
know you're this big herbologist. That's exactly what I
want. Whatever is documented, confirmed high quality, but
whatever the latest, hottest proven stuff is to everybody
buys it and it works great. Yeah, I mean, I want something
to really work good because you're gonna want to buy it
over and over again. Yeah, but go doesn't Bezos get that go
and sell somebody a bottle of crap. Sell them something good
and they'll buy it for life. But he thinks you're dumb. Well,
go to the testimonials, folks. You can see on the on the site
not hundreds, thousands of people who say I love I love
brain force. Well, here's the special since we did an
infomercial which I never do which we should do because it
funds the operation. Please support local as well. Limited
time sale of cell force in fours life. That is the we call
DNA force plus but it's called cell force right after 3%
off incredible deal about to end. Ikaran is the liver and
kidney cleanse with the milk, this will extract 600 Silmarin.
I mean, it's got all the stuff in a seat old Sistine organic
all the fruit goes on and on. That's 1995 leading competitors
are 40 bucks and they've got $1 product in them. I mean, we're
like, if something's 1995, it's got like $10 a product. You
know, if something's 60 something bucks, he's got $30 a
product and these companies cannot believe someone's
putting this in the bottle. I don't do the seven times markup
folks. I do 100% markup. I just cannot believe it. So again,
introducing in fours life daily digested with carnivore and
fluorolive probiotic. That's 50% off info or short.com. I
know I'm raining. Tell us what's coming up in the next hour.
You're going to be hosting Roger Stone. Well, we're going to
do a total breakdown. We're going to kind of give a score
card in the race to become White House chief of staff who's
in who's out who's under consideration who's taking
themselves out of consideration. We're going to talk about Jeff
Sessions, who's now attacking a Republican U. S. Senator for
supporting President Donald Trump's position on state
legalized marijuana. We're going to bring you the very latest
on Julian Assange. We're waiting with bated breath for a
decision by a British court that could lift the outstanding
warrant against him and clear the way to freedom. And we're
going to talk about the latest on John Brennan. John Brennan
is the former CIA director and he Alex is the perp in the entire
Russian collusion. He is the the main conspirator. This is the
evil brainchild of this Islamic Convert, this traitor who
is now by the way, a paid consultant. And I'm going to
do five more minutes with you because I agree we have cover
Russia to decipher it and expose it. But aren't we in a trap
letting even change the subject? Haven't they won on
investigating? They've failed in a way. I'll talk about support.
Good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride
free products. Info Wars Life brings you a revolutionary
toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to
deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with
peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this
groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and supercharged your oral health. Our amazing
garage features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since
aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been
hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and
only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol
nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super
blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and
invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic
weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat,
sick and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all new
supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the
crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced
neural activation and new tropics and now we've added a
brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that
gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include vitamin B
12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will
allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of
mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus secure your
bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Get our best trained, best educated, best equipped, best
prepared troops refuse to fight. Matter of fact, it's safe to
say that they would rather switch than fight. The Alex Jones
show because there is a war on for your mind.
Alright, Roger Stone is going to talk about a key question I
have at the moment that he's taking over. He's going to give
a share right here. The head of the war on these also going to
cause coming up but we were ranting about Whole Foods. You're
in the break and he's like, man, you're really pissed at
Bezos. I'm like, man, the stuff he did to publish, he's done
to us how he gets all these government contracts $1.48 on
every product ships. Nobody else gets that how he oppresses
everybody and then how he's got the Washington Post writing a
whole bunch of articles saying I'm a con artist because I sell
supplements when he's the biggest supplement seller in the
world. He knows they're great and then he's adulterating them
according to his own employees and lowering the quality and
then you go, oh, yeah, let me tell you just because you would
even go in there and you saw what all of leaf extract go from
2530 bucks as it should be to 70 something dollars knowing
people need it during the cold season and then realizing
wait, Alex has got it concentrated a third the price. Again,
that's what I mean. He gives you adulterated crap for way over
the price and then I guess we are dumb because the public
wants to get aft. Well, I won't be like that man and I'm sick
of visa. Sorry. Go ahead. Yeah. So I was going to the airport
on my way to Austin. I've still got this residual cough which
is the hangover from the flu. I beat the flu with immune wall
and the silver bullet but I knew I needed some olive some olive
leaf tincture. You know, it's an oil but Roman soldiers
their secret $75. I'm not paying $75 and put it back and I
headed for the airport. And again, you said what it used to
be just a few years ago was 20 30 bucks. So because I knew
it's in immune wall and I know it's the proper dosage. So
I figured I just wait till I got to Austin get some which I
did. The guy's a ripoff artist. It's outrageous and the quality
is just not there using filler. This stuff is but let's be
clear. He uses his computers to know when there's a run on
something. That's what the employees said. We're always
out relabeling prices. We don't know why you don't know why
when he sees a run on something he jacks up the price. When
we see a run we lower the price. So you get it and love us
and keep ordering and plus it's the right thing to do. You need
stuff like this at a low price. I'm ranting but it's just I
just don't get the Satanism. Well, it's also why in the
AT&T Time Warner merger. I don't want them to spin off CNN
because I don't want Bezos to buy it. I don't want Soros to
buy it. I'd like to see them reform it from the inside. It's
not making money. It's not getting ratings. This isn't
this isn't ideologically driven. The new owners might want to
make up profit on their cable news network. I used to make
money with Tucker Carlson and and and Papi Kanem around
there like when they used to be 80% globalist 20% don't
they get you at least want to debate. They don't want to
talk or has people on. He disagrees with well and destroys
them. If you saw that footage of him with the surfer dude
congressman from California Eric Swalwell. He destroyed him
when he accused him of being a Soviet agent. The Soviet
Union doesn't even exist anymore. Yeah, he was he was
sputtering but it just reminds people don't Swalwell that is
covered with shift. You know, you may need one more segment or
how about when I come back? You just you just address it
because I understand the Russia gate. Things important
because they made it the whole world as you said almost two
years ago when they started you said doesn't matter. It's not
real. They're going to continue to hype it till it's the only
issue out there and it doesn't matter if it's disproven because
now they've sucked you in. To their argument and so I think
about the amount of time we've spent on this instead of
free market taking care of our veterans exposing radical Islam
exposing all the high tech spying exposing you know the
fluoride the water all the things I didn't cover because I
defend it's it's like if you know congressman shift says
that you know I I I'm hiding a zoo full of monkeys up my
ass. I shouldn't have to sorry for that but that's what it
feels like. That's what he feels like as a monkey actually
you know it's like it's ridiculous. I should tell you
two years ago stop getting mad you know it's bull until it
did to me and it's like they know it's a lie and they know
they're the globalist trader so now I know why you're pissed
when we come back. Let's talk about that senior Carlson
want to play this powerful clipper. He said how much would
you have to be paid to watch CNN so that's coming up and get
Roger Stone's take on that and as they know with this flu
to get rid of it has this cough for two weeks so that's what
we're enjoying here. They'll be moved over soon with a cough
button right here. We'll be right back and thank you Lord
Bezos for oxygen in all your eyes point different directions.
Introducing cell force by info wars life cell force focuses
on mitochondria efficiency and protection mitochondria
produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's
cellular engines cell force helps promote your cellular
energy production by supporting mitochondria much like a
cellular engine overhaul because when your mitochondria
don't run at 100% efficiency then they start producing
reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that aging is
most likely caused by cellular damage resulting from these
reactive oxygen species. The antioxidants found in cell
force are some of the most powerful available on the
market the stronger the antioxidant the better its
ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and
other free radicals boost protect and adapt with cell
force from info wars life head to info wars life dot
com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah.
We don't mean to be on a Whole Foods Jag now that Bezos is taking over a year and a half
ago, but you were talking about a liver cleanse releasing the toxins, a real liver cleanse.
You've done ours.
What it does to you versus a fake liver cleanse, and then we'll get into the big Russia question
I was going to get to.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
No, when you do a real liver cleanse using milk thistle and other quality products, you're
going to have, you're going to be angry.
You're going to remember things you were mad about five years ago that you should have
just unloaded.
It's a temporary thing.
It's like a cleansing.
You got to review these things and then it's done.
Here's what I noticed.
I bought a liver cleanse product from Whole Foods six months ago because I'd been on the
road.
I was eating too much.
I was drinking too much and I didn't get angry at all.
In fact, I didn't feel anything whatsoever leading me to believe that most of what I was
taking was just filler, was nonsense.
You take our itch urine, I guess you call it, which I've now done once.
We have itch urine.
We also have the liquid.
I mean, you will be an a-hole that afternoon, but by nighttime you'll feel great.
That's how you know it's working.
And your urine will be dark brown because it's actually sucking stuff out.
Yeah.
No, look, it's a total cleansing, but even in Chinese medicine, the liver is the harbor
of all negative emotions and it just brings up to the surface psychologically as well
as physically.
Well, your brain's connected to your gut.
I'm now proving that that was actually scientifically based because when those toxins get brought
back out, not through your whole body, but being excreted through the kidneys and liver,
a lot of it was held there, which is helping flush it out of the body.
Your body, just like a bad smell, brings back a memory.
Your brain goes, ooh, I remember when I had that because it can tell the chemicals.
It'll subconsciously weigh more than our conscious mind is.
It remembers all those insults.
It's like, yeah, I remember the day Roger drank that half bottle of vodka with Alex on
election night and the champagne.
Yeah.
Hey, getting serious, I said I would play this clip, so let's go to it.
This is Tucker Carlson, just one of his genius minute and a half deals where I knew this.
I've pointed this out and I've talked about it, but I should make a bigger deal out of
it.
CNN pays hundreds of thousands of dollars and for the TVs, hundreds of TVs per major
airport to again, make you look like they're real news and just like the sun comes out
in the morning, it's a big CNN over your head like the Truman Show.
So let's play this clip as that house of cards continues.
It's downward spiral.
Well, if you've ever been to an American airport, you may have noticed something.
Everyone's watching CNN.
They don't have a choice.
Well, that may have made sense 20 years ago when CNN had a centrist reputation, but these
days the channel has strayed so far to the left and is constantly promoting wacky, Russia-related
conspiracy theories, along with strange spiritual advice from resident philosopher, poet Chris
Cuomo.
I don't wonder what's going on.
Airports feel like a lesser version of hell with dirty seats, overpriced food, and propaganda
posing as news on CNN.
So why is this network, this channel, in every airport in America?
We decided to find out, and in a surprisingly large number of cases, the reason is that
CNN is literally paying to have you watch them.
CNN has a special package called CNN Airport.
It combines news, sports, and travel.
In at least 60 airports, CNN has signed agreements to show the channel.
In Miami, for example, CNN Airport pays the airport authority a minimum of $150 grand
a year.
In Minneapolis, the airport authorities there told us, quote, CNN covers the costs related
to the TVs and infrastructure, and pays us for the opportunity to be in our facility.
Which raises the question, how much would you have to be paid to watch CNN?
Roger, that's a great question.
How much would you have to be paid to be on CNN?
Well, it's interesting.
When I was in Britain, the Guardian wrote that Stone has been banned on CNN.
In fact, I was banned on both CNN and MSNBC, and I have appeared on both of them since
the ban.
So, quite obviously, when you make news, they are forced to cover you.
On the other hand, you couldn't pay me enough to have to associate with Anna Navarro.
And it goes on and on like we need them.
It's the Streisand effect, trying to suppress you, myself, and others.
And only open this up to even more intellectual audiences.
Let me tell you, they try to ban you, the big thinkers.
They weren't already paying attention.
They really start paying attention.
Yeah, no, there's no question.
If you, as soon as I was banned for life on Twitter, the number of people going to the
Stone Cold Truths website, number of people reading my stuff on the InfoWars site quadrupled
almost overnight, they'll find you.
It's the free market.
They'll find you.
If you're not at Twitter, they'll go find you someplace else.
In the shows, we gave them all the value, like Drudge has always said.
So the problem is, Google's argued, the Federal Elections Commission and others, they want
GAB.
It's just libertarian.
They're gay people, communists, conservatives, they're all on there.
They want that banned from Google, because it's competition.
It's not about liberal or conservatives, they're a bunch of jerks.
Look, I have promised a lawsuit on this, and believe me, it's coming.
I was conferring with our friend Milo recently.
He's going to join me in this lawsuit, but we're not going to hit him where they expect
us to come.
We're not stupid, but this is coming, folks, and it's going to be bloody politically, politically.
All right, let's get to my big question.
I'm going to punch you out of here and let you take over.
I know this, and you even said this and others said this.
It doesn't matter if the Russiagate thing isn't true.
Obviously, it's insane.
I say, are you Martian agents?
Well, how do you prove a negative?
Do you rape your wife?
That's not what she doesn't say I do.
It's just made up crap.
Do I have PCP in my pants pocket?
Well, no, I don't.
Well, how do you prove it, though?
You'll show us.
Well, no, I'm not going to get up and show you there's not PCP, or how do others not
kidnap kids in my office?
The point is, if I'm flying around with Jerry Epstein and say I'm a pedophile and say I
like kids, well, then you can accuse me of that, because I'm into it, but I'm not.
The Russia thing, it's all been disproven.
It goes on and on.
They've been caught in all these crimes.
The system's scared to go after them with all their Russian collusion, all their payoffs
or to his wife who got hired for the job, $2 million on and on.
So aren't we, by even responding and getting into the whole soap opera, still letting them
control the narrative because we're in their narrative, in their world?
I mean, if they came out and all said, we're raping baby dragons in their peak patooties
every night.
Do we go out and have whole shows when they accuse us of, well, we saw stone in the woods
with a pink dragon and we saw Alex with one on top of the house and we're like, where's
the proof?
You know, we're not having sex with pink dragons.
So we're not robbing banks.
There's like, well, Roger Stoke keeps robbing banks.
Well, there's no proof of robbing banks.
There's not even banks being robbed.
You know, so the point is, it's like at a certain point, we have to disengage and make
it where we set the perimeter of the globalist or corrupt, Hillary's a fraud.
We're going to retake America.
We're on the march.
Lock her up.
You know, we, we need to get back on the offensive with our own narratives that are
reality based.
I think that is happening.
You're looking for is consistency among the voters and there isn't any.
So the Democrats and the liberals, first of all, they have no positive message whatsoever.
They got nothing to sell.
They're not for anything other than the status quo and the continued downward spiral of
America.
So their polls are showing that there's still a majority of Americans, despite all the evidence
to the contrary, who believe that the Russians colluded to elect Donald Trump.
However, the same polls in the next poll in the next poll, the same polls now show a majority
of Americans believe that the Obama administration was illegally spying on Donald Trump.
So we're winning this fight.
They're happening at the same time, but they were winning this fight.
So you have to do two things at once.
You have to push back against their phony narrative and you need to lay out the facts.
But what we really need more than anything else is a justice department committed to
the rule of law.
We're exposing the bad guys.
It's absolutely clear.
Uranium one is the largest treasonous crime in American history.
Mueller, Comey, McCabe, Rosenstein, these men should be in prison.
Jeff Sessions, wherever you are, wake the F up.
That's my next question.
What are the big narratives?
We should like rebuilding jobs, the family, not like, I know it's radical, but Valentine's
Day is about men and women loving each other.
It's okay for men to be men.
Ooh, I'm so radical.
No, they're radical telling us that we shouldn't even say that.
They're the cult.
The good news is that people respond to actual results.
Two million new jobs have been created by this president.
This economy is really beginning to cook and his tax cuts, even had a, even had a chance
to reach critical mass yet to, to, to get the transfer.
It's already started.
That's why they're deliberately raising interest rates, trying to kill it.
Yeah.
I mean, how obvious is that?
If they're successful and spike the economy, when you come back and you get a lot on your
plate, but when you come back and you're hosting, if they successfully derail the economy, how
do they get away from that narrative?
When we play all the clips of them trying to dynamite us going over the bridge and they're
like wily coyote and actually blow up the road runner.
What happens to wily coyote?
It's like, this blows up and the rock goes, I mean, what happens get to it on the other
side.
Right.
They're on the wrong side of history.
They're losing.
That's why they're so nasty.
That's right.
News wars.com.
News wars.com.
They're stinging themselves with their own political evil.
To libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org fully cooked ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully
cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Remember how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Remember your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order
online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
I want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at infowallstore.com and
this is basically a product that I've been taking anyway before we even launched our
own version of it.
Now the product is whole body support.
This is available right now at a massive 50% discount at infowallstore.com.
It's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market.
It's got the black pepper which makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Now we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically
proven to have.
So I just got this fresh today, literally the seal is not even being opened on it.
It's just 29.95 again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules in this bottle.
It is bodies, the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market available right
now at infowallstore.com, get it today.
All Wars Wipe is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, we have found an extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two, two
tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working
in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple eight, two five, three, three, one, three, nine.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, Alex Jones here back live with Roger Stone.
I was going to be pulling out here and having him take over and he will be taking over.
But through this hour at the end of the Alex Jones show and to the next with the war room,
I'll be hosting Roger will be here of course and I'll ensure we had an NSA shooting with
three people shot earlier today.
We were watching that.
They said it didn't look like it was terror related.
We'll have more of that in a minute does not appear to be terrorism, but motor remains
a mystery.
But I saw this about 30 minutes ago and it said several shot and I hoped it was just
drug related or something.
I hope nobody was hurt.
But report of active shooter at Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Miami authorities investigating
an incident and they're saying that says 20 to 50 people might be injured.
US Coast Guard and Palm Beach County are sending helicopters to help.
A number of people could be seen loaded into ambulances on a stretcher.
Let's roll a few minutes of Fox News coverage of this right now to 50 people injured.
Again our local station 7 News Fox for South Florida is covering it live.
Let's listen.
It was a normal fire drill like that normally we keep one every month and we were just assuming
it's that one.
But then the second drill went off and I thought it just always seemed that it was a normal
drill.
But as we're walking out, we start hearing like pop shots and no one seems to be worried
about it.
People thought that it was just nothing like an intense drill.
They thought it's not a drill before where they're going to be shooting blanks.
So we heard the shots like hey, it's just that drill and how did you get out of the
school space?
It could be the back route or the back route.
We're saying 20 to 50 people may have been injured.
I mean, these are victim disarmament zones.
It's like the media advertises this is where you go where no one's harmed to shoot you
and then it's almost always some crazed leftist or weird Islamist that's done it.
And the left keeps saying if you expose us on the memo, there'll be big massacres blamed
on you.
They're basically blaming Oklahoma cities.
It's too early to tell they covered up the Islamic connections to Vegas and other events.
Roger, what I mean, just first looks at this, you're from Florida right now.
You live there.
This is my home county.
I actually have relatives who live in Parkland.
I just got a text from my wife that fortunately nobody we know, no one in our family is involved
in this incident.
The Broward County Sheriff's Office, an incredibly able group of people who crimes down in every
category in my home county under the BSO.
They are on the scenes.
We're waiting for more information, but this will be hiked tomorrow.
Jake Tapper and Wolf Blitzer and Anna Navarro will be using this yet again as an excuse
to take away our firearms.
It's a shame that the left constantly seeks to benefit from tragedy.
And if there is any Islamic connection, you can bet your bottom dollar that there'll be
no coverage of it, just like San Bernardino, Fort Hood, they said for what, five years it
was not an Islamic attack.
I mean, he pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda.
He did it.
He shot 14 people, killed 14 people, shot more than that.
So Stoneman Douglas High School right now, we're watching all of this unfold and they're
saying it's still being an active shooter, but I don't think they know right now.
Alex, we're praying for the families and this has got to be a horrific thing to send your
kids to school and then turn on the TV and see this kind of thing.
But mark my words.
You're absolutely right.
If there's an Islamic connection, we won't ever learn about it.
They'll just cover it up and they'll be using this tomorrow to beat the drums to end our
Second Amendment rights.
There we have the images of children being marched out and put that on screen, children
being marched out with their hands up, showing that the police still don't know then, and
we can just punch that up if you'd like.
We still don't know who supposedly did this.
So let's go back to more of this coverage to the school campus at this point.
I'm about less than a half a mile from the actual school, but let me just show you how
much police presence is here.
If we can go back here, Scott, I'm showing them how much police presence we've got Fort
Lauderdale, Coral Springs, Broward Sheriff's deputies in the corner over there.
We've got parents.
You can see parents arriving here trying to figure out exactly where their child is.
But deputies and police officers have been arriving.
We just saw the SWAT team command post just drive through here and set up a spot closer
to the school.
So we are on exactly Coral Ridge Drive here and Holmberg is across the street.
Ever since Columbine, I don't like the mindset of waiting to see who the shooter is and waiting
outside and then going in and then have everybody march out with their hands up.
I mean, the old days when you had a tower shooter, you just storm in there and kill
them.
And we still don't know what happened in Las Vegas.
I mean, it's only, frankly, through the incredible investigative reporting of Laura Loomer that
we've found out about all these discrepancies in the coroner's report.
Oh, the shooter was 6'4", oh, no, he wasn't.
He was in there.
Now, there are multiple shooters and there's women in the hotel we first broke in.
And we told the hostage rescue team that he was had ISIS connections, which have now
come out.
And the room service bill showed that two people were dining in the room.
So who's the second person?
Again.
The prostitute who said that he said that he was under MK ultra mind control.
You notice they said now say they don't know what happened.
We were all conspiracy theorists for questioning it, for talking about it, for going over it.
But now, now, Roger, it's all out in the oven.
We're not conspiracy theorists, we're conspiracy realists.
We go where the facts lead us.
That's all.
Let's go back to Fox 7 in Miami and hear more of what witnesses are saying right now.
A girl from his class was shot.
And where were you when this all happened?
In my classroom.
I was really nearby the exit.
And you're hearing this happen in the freshman building is what we're hearing.
And what are your friends saying?
Are they still inside of the school?
No, my friends were able to evacuate.
Now, as a parent, this has got to be the most frightening thing.
Very frightening.
I was coming here to pick her up and I still have my son that is on my split.
Is he still there?
They're out locked out.
Yeah, I tried to call him and then the teacher got the phone and then he said everything's
okay, but they're still locked up for until they feel that it's safe to go out.
So I still have a son over there on the middle school.
As a parent, as a father, it's hit parkland.
No, in everything that is going to happen to you, you know, the things that you see
on the movies and all of a sudden you see on the middle of everything and then it's
very, it's very sad.
It's very sad because, you know, you still don't know what's going on inside there.
And I'm happy because my daughter is here.
My son is okay, but I'm very, you know, upset for the, for the, for the, for the parents.
We're going to continue to have live coverage of this tragedy.
Pray for those that have been shot saying 20 to 50 have been shot.
So shows they don't really know what's going on.
Hopefully it's on a number of anybody that's been killed, but we'll follow that here at
info wars for the next 30 minutes with Roger covering all the news.
He's got lined up into the war room, though a shorter in Roger stone coming up.
So again, we'll continue to analyze this in real time, but I got to tell you, the Democrats
have been caught in false flags before.
I'm not saying this is a false flag, but they've been talking about massacres and things.
People don't leave them alone and then we'll release the memo.
So if there are massacres and they keep threatening massacres, that makes them suspects when they've
been threatening massacres and who knows what mentally ill person they've wound up or what's
happening or is this gang related.
We don't know.
The media will say that I said it's a false flag and the Democrats did it.
I did not say that we're simply questioning the long history that these folks have.
Roger stone takes over the next two segments and then he'll move to the other studio and
be hosting with Owen shroyer with the war room that kicks off three to six central.
This is info wars live with your truly Alex Jones info wars.com news wars.com.
And of course, prison planet.com ton of news.
We didn't cover today.
We covered a, you know what time show or up straight ahead.
Pray for those right now at the school public school in Miami, Florida.
Stay with us.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need.
Period.
It's a filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine
disruptors.
Pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity, water filtration, big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or big Berkey water filters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
The proper B-vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B-vitamins we need
every day.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
B-vitamins we need every day.
B-vitamins B12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B-vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B-vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B-vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
B-vitamins B12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
We've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality
atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
Your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
That's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against
us so we need your support.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive
oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with Cell Force from InfoWarsLife.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You are the Resistance and now your host, Roger Stone.
Welcome back.
You're on the Alex Jones show here at Freedom Command Central and we're going to break down
for you the internal struggle over who will be President Donald Trump's next chief of staff.
Now, you may remember when Reince Priebus, the former Republican National Chairman, was
Donald Trump's chief of staff, general chaos ensued.
Anybody could stroll into the Oval Office without an appointment, without being on the
presidential schedule and just inadvertently drop paper for which there was no tracking
system.
Chaos ensued and it was a process like this that gave you, for example, Rod Rosenstein
as the Deputy Attorney General.
Rosenstein was promoted for that job by Priebus.
There was clearly no vetting to show that Rosenstein was a rat.
That's why we're stuck with him.
Then General John Kelly came in, pushed by Steve Bannon.
The first thing that Kelly did was to purge Anthony Scaramucci, who enjoyed a warm personal
relationship with the president and wasn't afraid to go out and take the president's
critics on in public.
Then ironically, the next person that Kelly purged was his patron, Steve Bannon, the man
who got Kelly to DHS and then got him into the White House chief of staff job, Bannon
was gone.
Now, it is abundantly clear that General Kelly knew about credible claims of spousal abuse
by White House Cabinet Secretary Rob Porter.
We know that the FBI gave their background report, which is required for security clearance,
to the chief of staff, Priebus, in June, that Priebus passed the information on to his
successor in July.
And very clearly, Kelly knew about these allegations but promoted Porter anyway.
Why? It's very simple.
You see, Mr. Porter was Mr. Kelly's, General Kelly's candidate for chief of staff after
Kelly moves on to be the secretary of defense.
Yes, it is widely thought inside the Trump circle that General Pettis, currently the first
military non-civilian secretary of defense in recent memory, will not fill out the entire
term and General Kelly aspires to that job.
I can tell you as a longtime veteran of Trump world that you can't leave the job you're
in now unless you have a candidate to replace you.
And Mr. Porter, a Bush Republican whose father, Roger Porter, is among the president's most
vicious critics.
A veteran anti-Trump was in line for the job until now.
General Kelly is to use a colloquial term, toast, and he knows it.
And he's begun telling intimates that he's leaving.
Meanwhile, a search goes on to find somebody who will take this soul-crushing job.
This is an all-consuming job.
And yes, Donald Trump is a tough taskmaster.
He wants the best and he wants it now.
Now, as I reported on the show earlier, we know that he felt out his best friend Tom
Barrick, the chairman of Colony Capital, a Los Angeles-based real estate opportunity
fund about taking this job, but that Barrick, who would have been excellent in terms of his
managerial skills and his shrewd political judgments, and his loyalty to Donald Trump
personally declined this high honor.
Now, the president also has felt out his current cabinet officer, Mick Mulvaney,
who is getting high marks inside the administration.
But Mulvaney aspires to go back to his native Oklahoma to run for governor.
And that leaves him out.
Sean Hannity has advocated the appointment of one of the great Washington Wisemen,
Wayne Berman.
Now, although Berman has a long history of raising money for establishment Republican
candidates like John McCain and George W. Bush and George H. W. Bush,
Berman was a longtime lobbyist and advisor to Donald Trump.
Someone the president knows, likes, and trusts.
Berman is also among the most capable and discreet individuals in Washington.
This is Sean Hannity's candidate, whether Berman is under consideration, we don't know.
Also, reportedly in the running is David Urban.
David Urban is a former choir boy, Catholic, NRA member,
whose father was an iron worker from Western Pennsylvania.
He is a veteran of some distinction.
But more importantly, he ran a terrific campaign on the ground in Pennsylvania,
a crucial state for Donald Trump.
Early on, Urban desired to be Republican National Chairman,
a job for which he was passed over and now reportedly in line to be ambassador of Saudi Arabia.
Urban would also be an excellent and most capable choice,
a man capable of enormous discretion, but super organized.
And then there's the one candidate that disturbs me the most.
That would be Goldman Sachs alum, Gary Cohn.
Now, Mr. Cohn, you may recall, was the Trump advisor who wanted the president to sign the Paris Climate Accords.
He incredibly gave an interview to the New York Post that said that the president was flying to Europe
to, quote, get smart and that his views on the matter of global warming were, quote,
evolving, close, quote.
At that time, Mr. Cohn aspired to be chairman of the Federal Reserve.
That isn't going to happen in the wake of his performance.
He is a great advocate of carbon credits, carbon tax credits,
another lousy liberal idea that would benefit Goldman Sachs, but not the American people.
It was unable to sell the president on that either.
You can clearly see his fingerprints over the president's new infrastructure plan.
It was written for, by and with Goldman Sachs.
The good news is that it's not going to pass in its current form.
The president's instincts are exactly right.
We need to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our airports, our infrastructure,
but we need better tools to do it.
This plan, the Goldman Sachs plan, the Gary Cohn plan,
is designed to allow Goldman Sachs to sell more municipal bonds and little else.
So there you have it.
And inside the Beltway breakdown on those who might be the president's next chief of staff,
reportedly the president's son-in-law and his daughter are pushing Gary Cohn.
How a liberal Democrat from Goldman Sachs got inside the building to begin with is hard to say.
I want to remind you that everything we do here at Infowars is listener and viewer sponsored through the Infowars.com store.
These are the very best all natural products that you can get.
And the prices today are slashed, my personal favorite, Brainforce Plus,
without which my triumphant tour of the United Kingdom last week would not have been possible,
a stunning 25% off mental clarity, mental energy.
When you get to that dip in the afternoon, you think you're done for the day
and you just don't know how you're going to take care of the next task at hand.
You pop two of these babies and let me tell you, it gives you a subtle lift,
but it's not like a hammer in the head.
It's very subtle and you're not amped up.
You can sleep that night and go back to your normal sleep pattern.
This is a great product, folks.
There are literally thousands of satisfied testimonials.
I can't say enough about it.
And when you go to the Infowars store, you help pay for the extraordinary expansion we've got going on here at Infowars.
I saw and toured the new state-of-the-art studio.
This is going to rock and when you combine it with these incredibly expensive but very effective satellites
that Alex Jones is bringing online, but we're expanding the truth.
We're expanding the First Amendment.
So, folks, it's a 360 win, as Alex Jones would say.
Help yourself, help us.
We are the tip of the spear, but we only win if you go to the store.
Kick George Soros in the derriere now.
Make America great by going to Infowars store and pick some of these terrific products.
Many thanks.
I'll be right back.
I want to tell you about an exciting new product we have available at Infowarsstore.com.
And this is basically a product that I've been taking anyway before we even launched our own version of it.
Now, the product is body's whole body support.
This is available right now at a massive 50% discount at Infowarsstore.com.
It's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support products on the market.
It's got the black pepper, which makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility,
joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Now, we're not even including a lot of the benefits that this product has been scientifically proven to have.
So I just got this fresh today.
Literally, the seal's not even being opened on it.
It's just $29.95.
Again, big, big chunky bottle, 120 capsules in this bottle.
It is body's the ultimate turmeric and inflammatory support product on the market available right now at Infowarsstore.com.
Get it today.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com.
But instead of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works.
And there's no way to quantify how strong this is,
but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins,
whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy,
this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there, and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at Infowarsstore.com, what it can do for your family.
And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018.
We're by calling toll-free, triple-eight-two-five-three-three-one-three-nine.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super-male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world
and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super-male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super-male vitality today at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Welcome back. I'm Roger Stone and yes, you're on the Alex Jones show.
Well, it seems like Attorney General Jeff Sessions is attacking Republican Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado
because Gardner is holding up the judicial appointments of the administration
because he objects to the fact that Jeff Sessions seeks to crack down on state legalized marijuana in complete opposite of the president's stated position in the presidential campaign.
Make no mistake about it.
Donald Trump is not a fan of marijuana.
On the other hand, he very clearly said time and time again that he realizes that millions of Americans are using it for medicinal purposes.
He realizes that it is greatly superior to opioids and he believes the people should decide.
The states should decide.
Twenty-nine states have legalized some form of legal marijuana. Only nine states have legalized so-called recreational marijuana.
Now, people say to me, well, Stone, what are you, some kind of pothead?
Let me be pretty clear.
My grandfather and my father both died of cancer.
They both had to go through both radiation and chemotherapy.
I saw them waste away to nothing.
I saw the horrific pain they were trying to deal with.
And I saw how the opioids that the doctors gave them in the case of my grandfather, an early generation of it, robbed them of any quality of life in their in their twilight years.
And then one of my cousins, who is active on Instagram, recommended to me, well, why don't you get your grandfather some marijuana, which I did.
And I saw his appetite return.
I saw him put on weight.
And it seemed to me that he was able to manage his exit from this world, his departure from this mortal coil with some dignity.
That's why I think this is an important fight.
I don't know what's wrong with Jeff Sessions, but the president said he's for medicinal marijuana.
He told me this personally in a telephone call several months ago.
And this policy is completely inconsistent with what the president says he's for.
It will also politically be a disaster.
In key swing states, many of them have legalized marijuana for medicinal purposes.
I think many libertarian voters voted for Donald Trump because they were reassured by his position that he would protect the access of millions of Americans who have come to rely on cannabis for medicine.
No, it's Jeff Sessions who's out of step and a kudos for a great senator, Cory Gardner, standing up for principle, standing up for President Donald Trump's position on cannabis.
We also have exciting news because I have long thought that former CIA director John Brennan is the chief strategist, the quarterback, the diabolical, evil genius behind the entire phony Russian collusion narrative.
I figured this out back during the campaign. It was October when I saw a New York Post story in which Brennan was predicting that the Russians would attempt to interfere with the election and help to assist in the election of Donald Trump.
Mr. Brennan spoke a little too soon and he exposed himself.
Now, a courageous House Intelligence Committee chairman, Devin Nunes, is focused like a laser beam on the question of whether Mr. Brennan has lied under oath about his knowledge of the so-called dirty dossier.
This is the dossier created first at the behest of a Republican hedge fund manager who was supporting Marco Rubio, but then this hot potato, this turd, got passed on to Hillary Clinton and the Democratic National Committee.
And then ultimately was passed on to the FBI by none other than John McCain. By the way, Senator, did you know it was a fabrication when you passed it on?
And it has been the centerpiece, as we know, the rationale that they used legally to get warrants on Donald Trump and his associates.
Now, it seems odd that Adam Schiff, you know, Schiff for brains and his sidekick, Eric Pretty Boy Swalwell, keep insisting that there was additional information that warranted these warrants and the surveillance of the Republican candidate for president.
I'd like to see their memo. I'm anxious to see their counter memo. Pretty clear to me that they loaded it up with sensitive and classified information in an extraordinary game of chicken where they don't want,
pardon me, they don't want us to know the facts. So they put some security, pardon me, some classified information in there, trying to goad the president into blocking it so they can say, ah, you see, we're hiding this.
Alex Jones, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. I've just got to take a little run here. So I'm just getting my wallet keys. I forgot those.
All right. Thank you, Alex Jones. Now, this is an extended game of chicken that's going on. I want them to release the Democrats phony memo because members of Congress that I know who have seen it tell me it is ridiculous that it's tortured.
And more important, it doesn't produce any additional information that proves Russian collusion. Incredibly, I watched Eric Swalwell day before yesterday with Tucker Carlson.
And when Tucker kept saying, where is your evidence? You've had a year and a half of this and you've produced nothing. And Swalwell said, well, if they just let us question witnesses.
I was in front of the committee for four hours straight. I answered every question they have. They have had unfettered access to any witness they want, who's of any significance whatsoever.
They're empty handed folks. They have nothing. And now the news is tightening around John Brennan, the quarterback of this entire evil scheme.
Side note, you may remember General James Clapper. He's another one of the ring leaders in this phony Russian collusion delusion.
He's the guy who testified under oath in front of the Senate that, oh no, America doesn't have any metadata collection program.
We're not collecting information on the American people. That is until Edward Snowden released materials that proved that Clapper was what I would call a stone cold liar.
So now you may ask, where is Clapper? Is he in federal prison? Where is he? Well, I'll tell you where he is. He's teaching ethics at Vermont College. Extraordinary.
So in other words, when you point to a situation like this, when I was interviewed by the BBC, they asked me why I don't believe the intelligence community.
When I cited this example, well, they edited that out of my BBC interview. How convenient.
Once again, folks, if you like our expanded coverage here at Infowars, if you're liking the real news with David Knight, if you love what Owen Shroyer and I are doing at the war room,
if you like the way Alex Jones gets right to the point and brings you the very best news that the mainstream media won't cover, remember that none of it is at all possible without your loyal support at the Infowars store.
We don't have any corporate sponsors telling us what we can cover and what we can't. We don't have any conservative fat cats.
There is no George Soros or Jeff Bezos standing in the wings supplementing the work that we do here. We can only count on you.
And Alex Jones has really gone the extra mile to provide some of the greatest all natural products on the market. They're greatly superior to what you can get at Whole Foods.
I know I've used both. And if you were watching the show earlier, you've heard my firsthand testimonial of my reliance on Brain Force Plus, on immune wall, on silver bullet.
So do yourself a favor. Help us expand the revolution. We are the tip of the spear. We will fight for you, but you need to have our back.
And you can have our back by going to the Infowars store now. God bless you. God bless America. Let's make America great again.
Thanks for the awesome Brain Force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The Super Blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowars Life products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
We're out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win. And with the new AutoShip feature at InfowarsLife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip. Win, win, win at InfowarsLife.com. Free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
