We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance.
Are there any draft bills or anything out there right now that you think might get a
second look at this point, something that's already been out there and sort of sits somewhere
in the middle that you actually get some more attention?
Yes, and I'm a co-sponsor of all of them.
One of them, for example, is Senator Feinstein's bill.
There are a number of us that are sponsoring it that says that you cannot legally purchase
an assault weapon, and then it goes on for 100 pages to define what is an assault weapon
and what is not an assault weapon, collector's items, for example, would not be an assault
weapon.
I tell you what is, and it's the two assault weapons that have got us here in Florida,
the AR-15 and the Sig Sauer that took out 49 people in Orlando.
And that is Democrat Senator Bill Nelson, who has arm bodyguards himself, who is a monster.
Ryan Feinstein and others have introduced their bills before, all semi-autos are banned.
And that's all under the UN's own admitted treaty that their main goal is disarming the
American people and the Swiss people, because there's only a couple countries where citizens
still own guns.
Ladies and gentlemen, the globalist backed Arab Spring killed over a million people,
over 200,000 plus women and children, many of which sold into slavery.
You don't hear a word about them being humanized.
After criminals in our government, Hillary, Obama and others, they stabilized North Africa
and areas of the Middle East.
You don't hear a word.
These people were in there helping overthrow secular pro-western governments to turn it
over to the Islamists, and then they shake their finger when 17 innocent people get killed
and tell us as gun owners, we're to blame because somebody got a semi-automatic rifle.
And despite that, the semi-automatic rifles are still used only in a fraction of the crimes.
Look it up.
And mass murder, mass shootings are flat since the early 1990s, overall gun crimes, you know,
was down close to 60%.
So those are the facts, and what's outrageous is they level their finger at you and I and
everybody else.
This is America born out of the Second Amendment.
And you tell us that it's our fault, and there's this whole pitch from CNN and others.
No more.
Make it stop, President.
It's your fault.
Make it stop.
Make it stop when the left backs the Communist Chinese running their country where they
have millions of people in slave camps and execute tens of thousands and sell their organs.
There's no news coverage of that.
There's no waving the bloody cert.
There's no complaining about suicide net to Apple factories in China and people being
you know, suicide.
No.
It's all just these grandstanding globalist up there using these events to then humanize
only what they want to humanize and then tell the American people that they're to blame
when they have their own firearms.
And then Feinstein said, before I want to ban all the guys, Mr. and Mrs. America, turn
them all in and later, oh, I don't mean that.
I never said that.
No, no, no.
So that's what they're up to.
It's what they're pushing and it's sick because these joker like creatures like Hillary
want their slaves disarmed.
They want you domesticated.
They want you controlled.
It's why they're banning having best friends in public schools and decades ago banned tag
and dodgeball and want to ban contact football.
It's on because they want to make way for the robot takeover.
That's their own emissions.
They want to make it where exploration is not about humans and the law is keeping you
safe.
Well, under the laws of robotics that Isaac Asimov envisioned, keeping you safe is the
perfect way to enslave you.
And that's exactly how they hypothesize and that's now what's actually happening.
We're coming up.
Wow.
We have got a full raft of incredible information straight ahead, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm just going to leave it at that until we come back because this is a bombshell transmission
and we're kicking it off right now infowars.com.
The scientists at Info Wars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You know Australia is a good example, Canada is a good example, the UK is a good example.
Why?
Because each of them had mass killings.
Somebody somewhere will comment and say Obama politicized this issue.
Well this is something we should politicize.
I'm not going to carry a gun, I don't want to be involved in a gunfight.
If I could have gotten 51 votes in the Senate of the United States for an outright ban picking
up every one of them, Mr. and Mrs. America turn them all in.
Go ahead, make my day.
So the notion that gun laws don't work is not borne out by the evidence.
He says that the Chicago police had a plan over this bloody 4th of July weekend.
Nonetheless, as you indicated Cory, there was a count of casualties that could have been
from Afghanistan or Iraq.
We'll make it harder for law abiding citizens and criminals will still get their guns.
In many cases the offenders, felons, some out on parole, some out on bond.
We have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and
their family from violence.
There are people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards.
24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
The average American does not have that.
Mayor Bloomberg, why can you defend yourself but not the majority of Americans?
I mean look at the team of security you got.
Every day, every school at every level.
One thing that I think is clear with young people and with adults as well is that we
just have to be repetitive about this and we need to do this every day of the week and
just really brainwash people into thinking about guns in a vastly different way.
Was this the weapon of choice for a new kind of terrorist?
When a five-year-old girl said she and a classmate should shoot each other with bubbles, the
school called it a terrorist threat.
AK-47s belong in the hands of soldiers not in the hands of criminals.
You know the right to bear arms is because that's the last form of defense against tyranny.
Lay down your arms you damn rebels!
But we don't need the ability of armed stuff against the army or the police.
What kind of a situation in the U.S. would you see that happening?
I mean we've got a lot of Constitution-listening people that it's like fire weapons.
Cover, the clergy would help the government with potentially their biggest problem, us.
To say we're not turning our guns in and we're not running and we're not knocking down if you want a comet takeover.
Rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty.
It's Alec Jones.
Rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us on this live Global Sunday Transmission.
I am your host Alec Jones. It is the 18th day of February 2018.
Hard to believe we're in 2018 already halfway through the second month.
I'm going to cover this more in the second hour because I've got a bunch of other super critical news to get to on what world government's up to.
Plans to crash the economy by the globalist unless we stop them.
The Democrats admitting they want to have a race-based platform because America isn't white anymore.
But white people said don't be races and opened it up.
See, it's a total double crossing by the party of the KKK, but it won't empower people to get on the race-based narrative.
It's just a way to control people. So that's coming up.
There's so much to cover here, but first because we're covering the Second Amendment, the tragic events that just unfolded in Florida.
I'm seeing these headlines, not just from CNN, but other fake news, establishment media, and it's that make and stop, Mr. President.
Make the violence stop. You need to stop it right now.
And that idea that if somebody rapes their wife or somebody runs over somebody with a car or somebody stabs somebody,
that somebody's to blame. You're like, well, people don't blame you if you're stabbed or if you're run over.
That's right. They only do it if it's guns because guns could fight back against the foreign power.
They could fight back against the tyranny and they empower the individual to protect themselves from crime.
And the Democrat model is high crime to control populations that they actually control.
Oh, they bring the drugs in, they run the local barrios, they run the ghettos.
That's their model. Look at Chicago, look at Detroit, look at D.C., look at L.A.
They are criminals and they've been caught and it's what they do.
And they're race pimps and they're the party of the KKK. They know race baiting.
So they get these sad mothers and others that have lost families and I totally understand them saying, hey, do something, fix it.
Stop it, stop it now. But the idea is, oh my gosh, another person on psychotropic drugs who's been adopted
and in the whole foster care system and then his parents had died and his brother was in a mental institution.
He's been in the system his whole life on government drugs, mass murder pills, mass murder suicide pills.
As I told Pierce Morgan a number of years ago and they kicked me off the air, he's not supposed to say that.
It's on the insert those drugs can make you kill people.
And he said he was going to kill people and he said I'm going to be the mass shooter. He saw the media hyping it.
Is it the media's fault? Is it the psychotropic drugs fault? Is it the mental illnesses fault? It's all of that.
The second amendment is secondary. He would have gone and gotten a car and run over people.
You've had Muslims kill hundreds of people apiece and it doesn't even hit the news. They won't say it's a Muslim.
But they will say truck attack. Is it time to start restricting people's access to big trucks after the New York attack?
Remember a few months ago? Is it time to not let people rent big trucks?
So I can't go rent a U-Haul because another Muslim runs over a bunch of people. It's the same thing with the damn guns.
So here it is. Dem senator touts proposed gun ban that goes for 100 pages, bans all semi-autos.
That's being announced right now.
Played the video last segment. It's up on infowars.com.
Yeah, you knew this was coming. Mitt Romney, Mr. Globalist.
He's getting ready to run for the Senate as we first broke four months ago.
It's now been announced to then position himself like he's a winner because he never won in politics.
So at a federal level, get him into the senatorial position like Hillary did and then run against Trump.
And he says ban the semi-autos. So there you go.
That's up on infowars.com from Red State.
MSM eagerly touts angry students' new gun control reforms into assault rifles.
Ban them. Do something. Do something.
Well, what about the four or five truck bombs that happened today?
Hundreds and hundreds of dead don't even pay attention in Pakistan and Egypt and everywhere else.
Ban Islamic bombings. Do something. I mean, tell them left. Do something.
Another Islamist goes and tells 50-something people to gay nightclub.
Gets hardly any coverage and they say this is the biggest mass murder in Florida history.
17 dead. I don't know, 56, 17.
Again, it's all just fake news world. They think you're not paying attention.
Cuomo of CNN. The guy who says you can't read WikiLeaks. Total liar.
You know, the hit and run guys, famous for being drunk, driving and crashing into things.
They let him off in New York. That's on record.
This is not as bad as we found the dead internally. Joe Scarborough.
But hey, if you're an establishment, you know, whatever.
As they say, no autopsy, but you know, jail free, whatever.
Bill Clinton, all of it. Jerry Epstein, all nine yards.
But when you look at this, it's just this idea that everyone else is to blame,
but the media and the government, everybody with the bodyguards.
So then they run headlines that he was an NRA member and he was an NRA trained.
None of it was true. He was in the school pellet gun club in middle school.
Then they're saying don't teach him how to drive and not try to run people over.
It's the same story. You're like, well, don't take my ride to drive with somebody else or something wrong.
But see, that's the mindset here.
Then they said Ted Cruz and all of the Republicans, same guy mentioned Como,
on CNN said Cruz wouldn't show up today for the show.
Cruz did the interview. They taped it and didn't air it.
And Como was so arrogant, he thought he'd go on air and say, Cruz won't show up.
Nobody will show up. We've got the video.
She laughs. And then meanwhile, the Republicans are all begging to come on,
even doing interviews, but they won't air them.
Again, imagine the arrogant, criminal nature of that.
Robbing the truth.
So it's amazing.
Apocrisy. CNN lies about Cruz Trump avoiding questions.
Florida Governor Rick Scott calls an FBI director to resign for failing to investigate TIP.
Absolutely. Trump says the same thing. They control corporate media, a taxing.
But the new thing when we come back is they're now staying all pro-gun info online.
They don't want to be banned because Russia runs it.
New from EmRick's Essentials.
Fragrance-free natural deodorant for your body care needs.
Playing basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat.
To maintain my game, I need all the confidence I can get.
That's why I use EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant,
made with organic ingredients.
This deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals to ionize odor,
keeping me fresh throughout the day.
While shooting hoops, the last thing I want is sweaty armpits
making my hands slippery and the ball wet.
That's why I recommend EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free deodorant.
Even though it's unscented, it's effective at combating strong body odor,
and I don't have to worry about any unwanted allergic reactions to my sensitive skin.
Whether you're a guy or gal, the last thing you want to be worried about is your deodorant.
No petroleum-based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty-free.
Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free natural deodorant,
available at infowarstore.com.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of Super Male Vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvestrite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvestrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
These are ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
What's the difference with our super blue fluoride free products? Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Infowars.com is tomorrow's news. Today, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are on a razor's edge right now.
Private corporate global government is trying to directly overthrow any independent nation,
whether it be old world, first world, third world, it doesn't matter.
This is global AI mega bank, robber baron, total war conquest in their own words, their own white papers, their own admissions.
And they just were so arrogant they hoped you wouldn't look into it.
They know we're pointing it out. That's why they're trying to shut us down.
Again, ask yourself why they're so scared of infowars.
Because we don't just cover whatever the big news is, we cover what the actual policy is, and it's very draconian.
So remember a year and a half ago, it came out in WikiLeaks at George Soros,
wanted Obama to hand full control of the internet over to the UN and then ban all nationalistic, all patriotic, all pro family, you name it, media, and quote, only push media affiliated and approved by him.
And it turns out he advises Google, Facebook, Twitter.
He spends billions off all the swindled black ops and, you know, money laundering operations and things he's admittedly involved in.
He's a giant criminal kingpin, his wealth is, most of it's under the service like an iceberg.
And now it's in the news.
Soros proposed to regulate Google, Facebook, and furiates internet users.
And then they've announced in the Financial Times, you name it, George Soros is running it.
He's trying to block the Brexit, the UK actually voting and not being under EU control.
And he says that he wants them to shut down anti-EU speech.
And that ties into this.
CNN reports that pro-run tweets are coming from Russian bots to sow discord.
And then on Drudge, there's a headline, Russian journalists who uncovered election interference, confounded by Mueller indictments.
Only 90 people with 2 million made America scared.
And it was trolls that were paid by whoever paid them and 80 plus percent was helping Bernie and then Hillary.
And then once everything was viral, Trump, they jumped on that just for their customers.
And then they jumped anti-Trump and funded real protest when he was President-elect saying he's not my president.
That's all confirmed right now.
You got Hillary with almost $3 billion, you got some Russian troll farm, which is like tiny compared to the other troll farms.
But it doesn't matter, see, they're going to say, if you're pro-gun, you're a Russian agent.
God, George Washington was a Russian.
Russians have a time machine.
They went back to try to stop the British Empire that was so good.
And then the whole thing's Russian.
George Washington, Iwo Jima, the Marine Corps, it's all Russian.
The Army, everything's Russian.
And of course, I'm being sarcastic, but that's what they're saying.
First, it was 600,000 people a few weeks ago.
Then it was 2 million.
God email saying, you're a Russian agent.
And then Twitter had to back off because the lawsuits went actually none of these people are.
We were just told to do this by Congressman Schiff.
Just say they're all Russian agents because they like Trump or they like free market.
Go to Venezuela, go to North Korea, go to all the other crap holes, go to collectivism.
If you want a couple thousand party members running your life and decide who can have a business,
if free market in America sucks so bad, get the hell out.
And it doesn't mean we're perfect, by the way.
I just, these are multinational corporations playing everyone, manipulating everyone.
I've got big stacks of articles here.
Here's one on the World Net Daily.
America's number one enemy, a World Government Summit.
So again, America is the number one enemy at the World Government Summit.
We covered some of this last week.
CNBC reported it.
It's called the World Government Summit.
And at the summit, all they talked about was how they had to stop America and nationalism and free market.
And they had Goldie Hawn bumbling around, pushing world government.
So constant world government meetings, constant power being transferred out of our countries, these multinational groups.
And then Trump comes along and says, no, and then he's the bad guy.
But remember, world government doesn't exist even as the whole thing's being announced.
So you got Soros saying, take over the internet, shut down free speech.
And despite the fact that Trump's in power, they're still just going ahead with it.
A lot of people go, well, a lot of people I know that were so-called libertarians or patriots,
when they saw their websites and things go way down being pro-Trump and being censored, they all just flipped and became anti-Trump.
And then it still killed their readership.
You might want to read that.
And I know people off record that went, man, I was making $500,000 a year off advertising with my site that's been around 10 years, whatever.
This is real personal I'm talking about.
And I'm going to come out against Trump.
And the word thing is they're dumbing up to even tell me that so they won't be banned.
And then they attack me later.
Like, you tell me you're a traitor and you tell me you're doing this for money.
And then you've got the nerve to run around and talk crap about me to the news and stuff when you are a whore.
And then, of course, they're already censoring everybody now.
Once you idiots went, oh, we'll be part of the inclusive group that is promoted.
We'll be part of the Goody Boy Club.
And then we'll get promoted once they got all you fools compromised to go along with censorship.
They had everything.
But you don't think I didn't get the calls from Facebook two and a half years ago, two years ago.
I had Facebook go just watch what we can do if we don't block you.
I could fart in the wind at five million views for about a month.
And I didn't shut up.
I kept going through and they went, nobody on your Facebook can see your stuff now unless they go to the very front page of there.
We're going to ban that soon.
I mean, that's the real world you live in, folks, where they're working around the clock to kill free market, to kill America.
The battle's happening.
That's not rhetoric.
This is now.
But the one thing they can't stop is those hundreds of AM and FM stations and in-hand sharing articles and videos.
It's the Streisand effect.
They jump the shark and they can't stop you financially supporting us and support your own free speech.
And the dividends it's already paid to you and your family and the great products, whether it's t-shirts to spread the word, meet like-minded people or high quality water filtration, air filtration, the very best prices,
or whether it's high quality supplements, it's going to have to end tomorrow.
We've got 50% off our fluoride free four to five o'cordal silver and iodine super blue toothpaste for adults and children and the mouthwash as well.
And infowarslive.com, that's 50% off. We've got the 50% off on the cell shield. It will now be known as DNA Force Plus.
That's so amazing. That's 53% off.
We've got Icarin, the liver, and, of course, kidney cleanse with all the known concentrated herbs.
That's 50% off out of the gates.
That's about to have to end as well because those are all introductory prices except for the toothpaste that we do that special off and on.
So infowarslive.com, infowarsstore.com is the umbrella site. But infowarslive.com takes you right to the, right to the supplements.
And you can also get 24 hours a day call and order with us for all your questions.
Triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine, triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine books, films, thousands of items,
high quality emergency radio, survival gear, all cutting edge, not a bunch of swag, not a bunch of crap, but high end low price quality stuff.
We'll be back with the really big news on the other side. Be part of the Rebellion. Spread the live video links.
Mike and Arizona are on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the infowars life products. They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on
and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
while you get high quality products and fund the info war, a 360 win. Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout,
we give you 10% off on your order at infowarshore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock
when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarshore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
Info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen block. In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms
like running nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll 3.
Triple 8, 2, 5, 3, 3, 1, 3, 9. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide, also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Brought by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Now, I know that you as listeners and end-viewers have seen mainstream media live quite a bit. You understand what's going on.
So the big mission is to reach out to other people who aren't aware of what's going on and let them understand there's a big, epic battle going on,
where we're trying to get control of our country back under our own government.
Not that it's perfect, but at least it's our own system, not some megalomaniacal, authoritarian, anti-human, transhumanist technocracy.
And I'm going to give the number out here in a moment. We're going to open the phones up right into the next hour.
But when I saw the headlines the last few days, when you saw it, we covered it.
Nicholas Cruz was part of the white supremacist compound. The leader of it admits it. None of it was true.
And then it would be retracted, but then MSNBC and CNN, it would get retracted by the local paper in Florida, but they wouldn't retract.
And now even AP and the New York Daily News won't retract. When they go, Nicholas Cruz was a member of the NRA and trained with them.
No, they had a pellet gun club that wasn't NRA at the school. It's simply incredible that this is going on.
So they do it over and over again. New York Daily News runs fake news headline claiming Florida shooter was trained by the NRA.
And again, AP and others have run with similar stuff that he was trained at the white supremacist thing and in the NRA.
And then I see this headline, Ted Cruz and all other Republicans are scared to go on CNN.
They're the ones always editing them, taping them, claiming it's live.
CNN will tell you, oh, this is live, Mr. Jones. This is why I quit even turning their calls years ago.
And you get there, they tape it, they say it's live. It goes on for like 30 minutes. You go, this isn't live. You're not going to break.
And I go, the show you claims on in two hours. And so I started videotaping in studio and then that would go viral saying, here's the CNN interview.
They won't let you see.
So Como, the CNN so-called host of the Hillary Clinton act alike, the hit and run artist, the brother of the governor.
We have a clip about the play. He said that Senator Ted Cruz was scared to go on and debate him.
And it turned out the day before and that day you name it, Cruz was like, that's weird.
I'm doing my daily stands up with CNN and they're not put me on air.
So they interviewed him again and he photographed it this time.
Let's pull those articles up. We can own Ted Cruz post CNN interview photo after network claims. No show.
This is the crap they do where, oh, there are no Republicans on because they're scared.
CNN makes a decision. Don't let them respond.
Put out our talking points, ban the Second Amendment, ban semi-auto, all Republicans are to blame, Trumps to blame, on and on and on.
And they won't show it.
Now there's actual photo guys. You pull it up. It's on twitchy. There's an inforware's article about it as well.
We have one of our guys write a story about it. It's owned Ted Cruz post CNN photo.
If you scroll down, it's right there. Go ahead and scroll down more.
There you go. See, there he is.
So Ted Cruz isn't scared to interview him because let me tell you something about Ted Cruz.
He's got great rhetoric and has a really great voting record.
But Ted Cruz, he wants to be establishment and he would have beaten Trump.
If he had stayed anti-establishment instead of ganging up on Trump and playing into that when there were still 16 people running against Trump.
It was yours to lose, Cruz.
And I know he is scared of. Ted Cruz is scared of inforware's.
I didn't know that I was renting a condo for the inauguration that was next door to Ted Cruz.
And I have the proof. I got video of it.
I'm checking out after the women's march on Saturday afternoon about to catch a flight home.
Friday was the inauguration.
The Democrats had a block of skittin' in.
The next was the women's march funded by Soros, 287 million to fund it.
And I'm waiting for the rest of my crew who was on the same hall but down to get out.
And I'm standing there and out of the shadows comes Ted,
because the lights weren't working in the hallway towards our two rooms on the end.
We both had corner condos.
So I guess he lives there.
So we know where he lives. The point is, what is the chances of that?
So Ted Cruz comes gliding out of the darkness.
I, within 10 seconds, go boom, boom, boom, go live.
We're on the elevator. Boom, I've got him.
Later I turn the camera off and have a conversation with him.
And he says, oh, yeah, I'll come on, sure. I'm not scared to come on.
And, you know, if Trump just stays true, I'll leave him alone, blah, blah, blah.
I said, fine, we'll call you next week. Never call us back.
Not that we need Ted Cruz on to be.
I'd kind of be uncool having Ted Cruz on, you know, because he's kind of establishment.
You know what I mean? It's like, oh my God, we have top senators.
I mean, Rand Paul, his people won't let him on.
We call when Rand Paul's on, he calls us.
He calls Nico Acosta to get on.
And I'm like, oh, look, Rand Paul calls me. I'm a big boy.
It's like they want to talk to some mother who, you know,
saves kids out of a car or a firefighter or a veteran.
Or they want to hear from them. They want interesting news.
Our listeners aren't into Hollywood and want to be Hollywood politicians.
They want Mavericks. They want original.
So I just thought it was funny to point out that Ted Cruz is scared to come on here.
And he's scared to death. Rand Paul's not. His crew is.
In fact, last time Rand Paul was on, he said, why don't you ever call me?
And I said, you know, your staff's blocking us. Oh, no, come on.
That's not, you know, I'm like, you want to talk to my producer?
He goes, okay, I thought you were mad at me.
And I'm just like, next time you went on callback.
Was that last year?
I mean, this is the Twilight Zone world I live in where it's national news.
They tell Trump don't come on my show and stop talking to me.
So what are they so scared of? They're scared that we've got their number.
So again, and by the way, Ted Cruz is a man is one of the most articulate, smart people out there.
He's not scared of actually debating me.
He knows they're going to then go, oh, look, Ted Cruz was on with a guy that says, you know,
that they had NBC News saying, I said no one was killed in Florida.
I never said that.
So he doesn't get that coming on the shows, the zeitgeist, he hasn't figured it out yet.
The touchstone is stuff like drudge and info wars, drudgereport.com.
He still acts like he's anti establishment.
But then at the end of the day, he doesn't get what Trump's got.
And this isn't about me or Ted Cruz.
It's about you understanding.
Stop caring what you're in law say.
Stop caring of some idiot walks up and calls you a racist because you're pro free market.
It's all weak minded people that still think they could go along with the establishment.
If I was on Bill Maher, I'd be uncool.
If I was in the big movies, I'd be uncool.
I could do all that.
I don't want to.
This is what's important.
This is what's modified.
This is Genesis.
This is new.
This is new green buds, not old stuff falling down and I'm not against old in general.
But our renaissance, our republics, the latest idea.
We're the liberals.
We're the avant-garde.
We're the cutting edge.
So this segment is multifaceted.
The news is running all these hoaxes that are anti gun and anti Cruz.
And then here's Cruz going, I am trying to get on.
I am trying to get on.
But you know they're fake.
So why are you even trying to get on the thing that's scared to have you on when you'd be president?
If you'd come on info wars instead of that idiot candy ass Glenn Beck.
You don't get it.
And that's why you lose.
That's why you fail.
Let's go ahead and go to this club of Ted Cruz.
So we invited republican senators, Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, why he's from Texas.
Because he talks about this issue a lot.
We invited the governor to come on the show this morning.
They declined.
We say let's get after it.
It's not a slogan.
It's an approach.
You have to take these issues on.
You've got to ask the tough questions.
You must be held accountable.
Rubio says this is an inexplicable tragedy.
That couldn't be less true.
Governor Scott is actively fighting right now to penalize doctors who even ask patients in their state if they have firearms.
Where are they?
They won't come on here.
They're on Fox News this morning.
The mothership, so they won't be pressed about gun control.
What are they afraid of?
Mafia gangsters like you that want disarmus so you can be a capo and roll over since you're a personal slave.
And you and your criminal family, I mean, you and your hit and run drunk driving.
I mean, that you big old fat ugly dumbass thug.
You're not an American.
We're going to break your back politically.
Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria,
much like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency,
then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life.
Go to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country,
that if you want proven studies and documentation,
let me speak for hours just on the files I have here,
of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this,
this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year,
immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf and so much more.
It is concentrated, you need to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate.
A citrus peel blend, I mean this is the next level.
It's now available ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Beta-glucan, olive leaf and more.
Immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com or triple-82533139.
It's easy to use and let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables,
meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation,
like canning or dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us, it took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system
but right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright, well I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday, living defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose, it's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you can support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you Dr. Group from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product.
Let's aside, you're listening to Alex Jones.
See everybody looking for something that wants to be part of the establishment.
See, I'm not here in the Wild Wild West.
I'm not here prospecting for freedom.
I'm not here looking for the new Atlantis.
I'm not here looking for the space spaces.
I'm not here looking for the life extension.
I'm not here looking for the next thing.
And the next, and the next, and the next.
I'm here looking for that jump in human development for myself and my family,
and your family together in the future.
And I look at mainstream news everywhere saying,
I started seeing this Friday night on the news and then it's all over the Internet.
Russians are pro-God.
They're behind all the pro-God stuff online.
If you see somebody on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, pro-God,
they're getting run by the Russians.
They're everywhere.
Run for your lives.
Everyone's in danger.
All political speech that's not globalist, that's not leftist, is now Russian.
You can see where this was meant to go from the start a year and a half ago.
Right when they lost the election, they didn't have to tell between their legs.
They said, Obama signed an executive order federalizing the new election
and we're going to overturn Trump's election and all others
and permanently federalize it and we're going to have illegal aliens vote.
And now they've had all these states legalize illegals voting.
While they go, your conspiracy theorists know illegals ever vote.
No one wants illegals to vote, but we are passing laws where illegals can vote.
You're like, you logically say that to me and you're, shut up, racist!
So we're going to open the phones up as we start the next hour.
Maybe even right now.
877-789-Alex, 877-789-2539.
Long-time callers, first-time callers agree, disagree.
Hey, maybe you're an Obama supporter, an Hillary supporter.
Maybe you think the new Russiagate crap about to cover this incredibly comical plagiarized buzzfeed flath.
Maybe you think that's the big proof.
Well, tell me you disagree and come on down to the head of the line.
877-789-2539.
By the way, a lot of folks that say if you disagree, call the head of the line.
They're not getting calls.
We've gotten 24,000 calls during a three-hour show.
Oh, I'm sorry, 24,000.
We have a digital...
I'm sorry, the engineer popped me here.
What'd you say it was?
Hey, will you find that old number?
I want to show that.
I don't...
Yeah, yeah.
Highest, 25,000 in a few hours.
Nobody's got that.
National hosts beg for it, whatever.
Our callers really are amazing when we get to them.
But usually people with a call in disagree.
They don't even have anything real to say because what are you saying?
I want free market.
I want America.
I want prosperity.
I want equality.
It's the West that's sold equality.
It's the West trying to enforce it.
Somehow they flipped it around and said our greatest strength is our greatest weakness.
There's slavery going on in caste systems.
Under three billion people of seven and a half billion right now.
Look it up.
Three billion people live basically as slaves.
But see, that's okay.
You just go watch your mythical Black Panther in some super high tech,
a made up African nation,
and give it a 99% score on rotten tomatoes that no one else got.
Stanley Cooper's got like 75.
Everybody else, you know, 80 if they're lucky, the best directors.
Oh, but you're 99 because you're racist.
And the new said, you're racist if you don't say Black Panther is the best movie ever.
Normally I don't get bought into hype and stuff, but I'm like...
I mean, if the movie's good, I'll go see it.
In fact, I'd like to see a movie with other Black people.
I mean, I like movies that are weird.
I like Japanese movies, rather than Japanese or French movies or Mexican movies.
A lot of the best directors are Mexican directors.
This is the fact lately, the last 20 years.
I'm like, who made this?
It's always a Mexican, you know, at the end of the name.
So I'll go see a Mexican movie all day long.
I don't care.
It's like Jimi Hendrix.
I'm not virtue signaling when I say I'll go to this soul food place.
Unfortunately it closes around 10 years because it's got the best Southern cooking.
I don't care purple people, blue people, green people, or polka dotted people are behind the counter.
Just you treat me nice, get a big tip.
I want collard greens and chicken fried steak and chetlins.
I want sweet potato pie, baby.
I want buttermilk biscuits.
With a big old nice black lady coming over and pouring it on there.
And I listen to Jimi Hendrix because it touches my soul.
And I listened to Beethoven.
He touches my soul.
He's a German guy.
Everybody just wants to live in peace on average, but elitist play us off against each other.
And I am sick of it.
I'm going to stop right there.
The globalists are at war with humanity.
They are cold-blooded technocrats that know how to manipulate us.
And people say, well, then how we beat them?
If you're aware of the manipulation, it doesn't work anymore.
And we've got them on every front if we just wake up to it and do something about it.
If I'm told you go see a movie and you give it a perfect score or you're a racist.
And we're going to find out with your Rotten Tomatoes account, which I don't even have.
If you didn't give it a perfect score, we're going to call it hate speech.
It has nothing to do with black people.
I want to do like a whiteboard on this or something.
A blackboard.
Oh, that's racist too.
Sorry.
A chalkboard.
There you go.
That's where this mental illness ends.
There is no end.
And you can explain like, here's the political class.
They want you to submit what they're doing.
So there's their image of their company.
They claim there's a big problem for black people.
They know your well-meaning, black, white, whatever.
They get you to think of as a charity case and to feel guilty.
And then they tell you, here's the agenda as if they represent these black people.
That's the same thing that Dreamer said.
We never played his clip.
I forget his name.
It was in my last week.
I mean, we can pull it up.
But like Dreamer says, Hispanics are being exploited.
He says, I'm a Dreamer because just saying we represent you, now you do what we say and
we speak for you.
That's exactly what Bill Murray said.
Who's a real liberal?
He's a real guy that's for freedom and working together.
He has a record of that.
He's like the comedies all over now.
And you've got all these groups claiming they represent all the quote minorities in this
group and that group.
They're always making a new minority group to divide us into more crap.
And how about you're an open, free mind, common sense, and you like productivity versus all
that other crap.
But I'm ranting.
The phone number again is 877-789-2539.
And if you guys launch that phone system for me, I can see the callers.
I will come back and get some of those.
And then I'll get into the Russiagate stuff, which I mean, you know, it's gotten so comical
at this point, but I still probably should, should cover it.
XCI operative says U.S. is long meddled in election, but it's okay since they are God cops.
I'm not joking.
That's what the CIA, the leftists call themselves in the CIA.
That's okay.
So that's the New York Times.
Shock, Mueller indictment plagiarized from Buzzfeed.
Word for word about a leftist, basically Soros funded pro Bernie Sanders group.
And then they got some other advertising, $2 million.
Once Trump was the hottest thing by advertisers.
And what is, you hire a company to promote you.
And it's just a company that takes business from everybody.
That's their big Russian collusion.
Versus Hollywood and the globalists and all the media and billions for Hillary.
$2 million though, the Russians, man, they're magic.
Bernie, Trump not speaking against Russia is a horror show when he got most actual Russian money.
Of course.
That's hilarious.
Trump tweetstorm Russians laughing their asses off.
We'll get to that.
Facebook, MVP, MSN ignores facts about Russian ad spending for election.
Hillary Clinton outspent the Russia's 53 to one.
Dems struggling with the rising popularity of GOP tax plan.
But they've got one of their demographers out and with polls saying, don't worry.
The race-based politics that Dems believe will work.
They believe they'll turn minorities into racists who won't care about free market or real issues.
They'll just vote as a race block like Muslims tend to do.
And that's what the liberals love them and think that they're under your control.
So whatever, the Republican blue bloods are scum.
The Democrats are the worst thing since cancer.
Can't we all be smart enough to see what's going on here?
I'm smart.
I'm going to be successful one way or the other.
But if you want real government trying to deliver you a level playing field and a free market that's guaranteed to make you more wealthy than any other system ever has, it's yours to lose.
That's all I got to say.
This is an equation that's known like 2 plus 2 equals 4, just briefly.
We've got to end this special A because we're not getting more super blue toothpaste.
I'm told till April.
And I don't want to just shell out of it and then not sell the rest at full price and don't fund our operation.
But I want to introduce you to see how great this fluoride-free, concentrated, additive-free, fortified with Coil Silver and iodine,
toothpaste and mouthwash systems are.
So it's 50% off.
These are award-winning.
They're loved.
Highest ratings out there.
This is a great way for regular fans to get stocked up.
People haven't tried to try it.
And then the full prices have to go back Tuesday.
We're going to be sold out for a few months if I keep selling at discount.
So infowarslive.com.
Super blue for 50% off.
It's about 10.
Introducing Fluorolife.
The new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
Fluorolife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics.
So if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining, and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why.
Increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care.
And a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics today.
That's infowarslife.com.
Well, thank you.
My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me, but it says Won't Tread on Me.
And it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake.
And then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning T-Shirt.
Trigger Warning T-Shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new Shirt of the Mind, available exclusively at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
When I grow up, I always be around here.
When I grow up, I want my ancestors to know I was pro-human.
And I want us to win.
We're gonna win, at least a remnant.
Yeah, we'll be lucky if 10% of us survive.
That'll be a big victory.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
I am trapped on a planet in deep space.
I am trapped on the third planet from a standard yellow star.
So close, it causes genetic mutations in my genetic bloodline every cycle and gives me cancers on my skin.
Think about how fantastical that sounded.
Think about how insane that sounded.
I am trapped on a planet in deep space on a spiral-armed Milky Way galaxy.
I have a vision, a race consciousness as a human of something bigger and a longer history and even bigger tomorrow.
And that's what we're talking about.
The global technocrats have already captured the future.
They're already 20, 30, 40 years advanced that we know of.
They may have already had singularities that have been controlled, super jumps in technology.
They're acting like we don't even exist.
And there's kind of a discussion about how to deal with this.
And do they entertain us to death when that must be sterilized or just kill everybody outright?
They're like, well, for the good of the earth, just kill everyone.
And so they're kind of like, hmm, well, there's seven plus billion of them.
You know, we're the new globalist life form.
And if we wipe a bunch of them out, they can really get aggressive and do some amazing stuff.
Because after all, we stole their technology and did this to them.
We're just pretending we're gods in a breakaway civilization.
So we're actually kind of scared of them because we're not who we really say we are.
So let's kind of sit back and wait.
And the top globalists are like, kill, kill, kill, release the bio weapons now.
Release, release, release.
Save the earth of the human scourge and you will merge with the AI god.
Shave the earth, prove yourselves worthy.
And a lot of globalists are going, you know, I don't really know.
I trust us.
Make no mistake.
You're all got front seats here on barbecue.
And all of you little big neck people that serve evil believing gives you power.
You will be destroyed.
It's a metaphysical universal rule.
You will be destroyed.
And I do take pleasure in it because you are cancer being removed from the universe.
But yes, you're fools.
Yes, yeah, you can see only close to your final goal.
You begin to actually pick up on what you did and what fools you were as if any entity
promising you power to do horrible crap would actually give you the power as if it could give you the power.
That's why number one Lucifer can't give you the power.
Only the dream of the power as if you were ascendant enough to even imagine that.
Let's go to this clip.
This is a dreamer.
I'll pronounce his name wrong.
I'm an idiot.
And he's talking about how they're using dreamers as pawns and make no mistake.
Everybody's being used as a pawn.
Let's admit it.
Here it is.
You're a dreamer and you're speaking positively about Donald Trump.
I figured you would have.
You'd be the kind of person who would be speaking more highly of the Democrats like Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer.
They've got a different plan.
Correct.
I grew up on conservative values.
You know what?
I went to this late.
They just pointed that out.
It's like a two minute clip.
I'm going to come back and play the clip.
All I'm telling you is, and I'm going to say this again, not from a power trip because it's the opposite.
I feel super weak to look at a globalist that I feel like.
I feel super weak in front of God and little globalist like little worms over here.
And then the public's super powerful.
There was a power there and I'm like, look, you realize you're amazing, powerful being made the image of God and you just don't get it.
I'm just trying to explain to people that the globalists are a joke.
I mean, they really are a joke and they're standing in the way of human development and they really are like space cancer.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription.
But they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
It's a new pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
I'm going to get to earlier in the week pointing out that everybody's being used as pawns.
It's a manipulation.
The U.S. has one of the most open immigration systems in the world.
This idea that if you don't let anybody come in and keep this permanent underclass that's undocumented here, that you're bad, that is pure manipulation.
I'm going to go right to Keith and David and Dennis and Perry and John and Don and Zach and Daniel and JK and Karen and Kevin.
We're going to get to everybody.
Boom, boom, boom, start your engines.
Here's that clip.
You're a dreamer and you're speaking positively about Donald Trump.
I figured you would be the kind of person who would be speaking more highly of the Democrats like Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer.
They've got a different plan.
Correct.
I grew up on conservative values.
I grew up on, first of all, putting God in my life.
Jesus Christ is my savior.
I grew up on family.
I believe in prosperity.
I believe in hope, working hard and standing on your own two feet.
That's what the Republican values are.
That's what I believe in.
At the end of the day, I make decisions based on my values.
As far as the Democrats, I'm a little confused as what their message is.
I'm a little confused as what they believe in.
For me, it's more appealing to appeal to my values and something that aligns with those.
You say that Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi have used the dreamers, people like you, as political pawns.
Why?
You know, a little bit about the Democrats.
Look, Trump won.
That's the reality.
I think it's time to move on.
I think the reason he won was because he had a great message.
He had great principles, whether you agreed or disagreed.
And the reality is, look, Russia was not involved with this. It was a clear win.
And I think CNN needs to move on from that and really focus on the American issues.
But here's the facts.
The dams failed to act back in 2008, back in 2011.
I think now, look, I can go all day about Democrats.
I possibly could have my own show.
But look, I want to focus on the American issues, on this American issue.
It's not a Republican.
It's not a Democrat issue, but it's an American issue.
And Republicans right now have a chance to make history.
And this would look great on President Trump's legacy, on legacy.
I mean, this is something that President Trump would be known for,
something that Obama couldn't do, something that President Bush couldn't do.
And that's get border security and also give me the chance to serve this country.
Well, there you go.
But the Democrats and the Republicans, they want a permanent underclass.
It's hard to become a citizen.
It's easy to get here to manipulate and control those people.
I think we should end it.
I want to go to seek.
I want to go to David.
I want to go to everybody, JK and others here in a moment.
But that's what this is all about.
This is about globalism.
It's about breaking the back of the country.
Let's go ahead.
And again, who did I say I would go to first?
Let's go ahead and go to David in Washington.
Thank you for joining us.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
How are you doing?
Good, my friend.
Go ahead.
Well, I have a lot of credit, but I have a lot.
But I'm going to talk about the floor shooting.
Okay.
People call in and we don't screen your call.
So you're on air.
We're not screen your call.
Okay.
Well, you get your thoughts together.
I'm going to come back to you because we get hundreds of calls.
We don't screen calls.
Just where you're calling from.
Okay.
We're going to move on though here.
Zeke in California.
Zeke.
You're on the air.
Zeke.
Thanks for calling.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
I appreciate you, Alex, and all the work you do.
Thank you.
I'm going to jump right on into it.
I called before the election.
When you was asking the question, somebody's going to go, they're going to go with Hillary
and they're going to go with Trump or whatever.
And then, and I'll say Hillary, you know, but it was a hard pill to swallow.
Because I have my reasons why I couldn't ink a dot for Trump at the time.
But I can see is very important and key to Hillary didn't win.
And then everything else that came out since then.
Right.
So it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just,
it's just a very deep situation.
So I'm fully tuned in.
So I'm calling with a confessional because I'm confessing.
Yeah, I did it.
I'm more of a Ron Paul dude.
Like, like Aaron Russo is the person that introduced me to that Ron Paul existed when
America Freedom of Fascism came out.
Great film.
Great film.
Great guy.
Absolutely.
I love him.
Great dude.
Madam.
You know what I'm saying?
Work to help and get that film out.
I've been around since then.
I'll pay attention to it.
Sure.
So you're saying you're confessional is you were a Ron Paul guy and then, and then what's
your confessional?
My confessional is like, it was not an accident because I have my reasons that could be discussed
at another time.
That's not really part of the whole point.
But I'm more of a Ron Paul in terms of the, my personal politics, but I was willing to
vote for Hillary at first and Trump because I had my issues while I couldn't as a black
man.
Right.
I'm sorry.
I'm beyond that.
I'll pass that.
I'm not dealt with.
I deal with it.
I see what's going on.
Like I can really see.
Right.
So it's pretty vivid.
It's high resolution.
And I'm looking at, I can see how you could be confused during the campaign, but now the
whole system against Trump.
Why do they hate Trump so much for the economy coming back?
Well, why do you think that's the case?
All of that is so major because we got to deal with socialism, Marxism, how the socialist
Marxist took over and left wing and some of them is hopefully that and people's doing
all this stuff.
And so, so, so many things have been commandeered, but other people behold the torch and still
maintain it for freedom.
Those of us that understand the importance of the constitution, right?
Literally, we can go beyond race.
You know, we know some things.
No, you're right.
You're right.
I'm going to jump in.
Thank you.
You're right.
It's all about the Bill of Rights Constitution.
It's all about the Bill of Rights Constitution because it points out that people are in charge
and creates new processes.
I mean, it's perfect.
No, but they want to get rid of that and they even say North Korea is better than America
on NBC and CNN.
It's crazy.
We're going to go to JK in Washington, D.C. JK, you're on the air on this live Sunday
broadcast.
Thanks for calling JK.
Yes, Alex.
Thanks for taking my call.
I'm just going to real quickly mention about your products.
I've been buying for the last eight years and they're amazing.
Thank you.
I'm a liberal and a conservative.
So I called to say what I think is the main difference of what we can do compared to the
other side.
And that is love your enemy and you can't be a Christian.
I hate to say it.
You can't be a Christian unless you love your enemy.
No, I agree.
I tend to get where I hate globalists and I hate their minions, but a lot of them are
just idiots.
I actually feel sorry for them and not in an elitist way, but it's like, how do you get
through to them?
Let me ask you this question then.
How do you reach out to somebody who's trying to throw coffee in your face?
I thought of that guy, that gobbler who calls me on your face.
I was just thinking of that.
You do have to love him, but you can stop him if he was trying to kill you.
You can kill him first before he kills you.
Love your enemy is not what people think.
It's not a suicide note, exactly.
They mistranslated, they admitted out of the Hebrew, thou shalt not kill, it's thou
shalt not murder.
You don't go out and randomly kill somebody, but somebody's trying to, the whole Bible,
somebody's trying to kill you and your family, rise up and smite them.
Well Jesus said to the disciples, he knew he was sending them out into the world about
10 or 12 of them.
He said, sell your clothes and buy a sword or a knife.
And then they said, we got these over here and there were two of them.
He said, that's enough.
So he said that, he said, protect yourself, but love your enemy is, it's not what people
think.
Love your enemy.
It'll keep you from joining them.
Love your enemy as you crush their evil.
Love your enemy.
Hate sucks.
There's a lot of different ways to look at it, but that's what's going to separate us.
Do they love their enemy?
Do the hateful people love their enemies?
No, they don't.
So that's the nuclear.
You're right.
And George Washington was the first person in a modern area, doesn't sound modern, but
the last 400 years is more modern, to really not allow any atrocities.
And he said, we have to be clean.
That's what we're going to win.
We cannot engage in atrocities.
And that's what we're built on.
And so it's already here.
And what Obama said, we're not a Christian nation anymore.
He was hoping that was the case, but it's not the case.
We are.
And I'm saying true Christians and you can't be a true Christian if you don't love your
enemy and everyone just needs to try that.
And that's what I agree, but it's hard to love Hillary.
I mean, I just, but I hear what you're saying.
I love the human she was once, but I hate her evil.
I'm going to fight her.
Great points.
J.K.
Thank you for the call.
Now we're going bam, bam, bam.
David Washington, Dennis, in Kentucky, Perry, John, Don, Karen, everybody, your call straight
ahead on the other side of this break.
They're trying to block us.
Spread those links.
Spread.
Tell us.
Tell us some talking points here about caveman from info wars life.com.
But instead of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced
personally from all the wives tales in every culture.
We know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick again in every culture.
This has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this
is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated
life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarstore.com, what it can do for your family.
And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the information war in 2018.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
Infowar's life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com, that's infowarslife.com.
In a highly customized blend, discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic
coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed,
it's available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida, Victor, you're calling, go ahead.
Yes, hi Alex first, I just want to mention if people just go and try the products, they
will be ordering all the time.
I've ordered several of the products over and over because it's amazing.
In particular, silver bullet, as soon as I start to feel like I get a little sick,
maybe like a little raffiness in my throat, I drop some silver bullet and I'll still
feel a little sick but it won't last as long and I just ordered the body, the alpha power
and the pollen block.
Well, let me just say something, Victor, it's people like you that then fund the whole operation
because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage of
them buy a lot of the products, so thank you.
When you mention the silver bullet, colloidal silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98%
review.
It is our highest reviewed product because it is from the top lab in the country discounted
high quality colloidal silver and it's not a silver bullet, but it's the closest thing
you're going to find to a silver bullet.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
By the way, we got Paul Watson co-hosting with me this week.
A couple days, we've also got Milo, Yiannopoulos and studio co-hosting, big broadcast week
coming up with a weekday transmission.
We've got our review coming up with Paul Watson speaking to him of Black Panther, I haven't
seen it yet but he breaks it down, so that's that coming up.
We've got David and Donna and like a hundred other callers here, but I'm trying to get
as many of you can, just get your point out, no need to thank me, I thank you, you're awesome
calling in.
We'll move to the next person.
We've got Donna and Corey and Danielle and so many others I'm going to go to and David
and Donna in California, thanks for calling Donna, you're on the air.
Alex, my privilege to speak with you, I feel like I was divinely, I found you divinely,
you and your family and everyone's in my prayers daily.
Well, thank you, I need those prayers sweetheart.
I'm telling you, yeah, I really cover you with the prayers and like I said, I found
you all maybe this year sometime, the products are wonderful.
Thank you.
I'm trying them all but I've got my favorites, I'm doing good on that and I just wanted to
say that, you know, it is so much, what I've just heard over the broadcast over the last
several months, it is so much and I make little notes and tonight, today that's why I'm calling
because I just made some notes, I said, you know, the Clinton Foundation, the flush funds
for the government lawsuit payoffs, the 21 trillion unsupported adjustments on and on
and on and I'm old enough to remember the great society when Johnson brought that in
and I remember my parents saying, oh man, this is the beginning of the end, well, here
we are, here I am, have lived the history of all this to see what's going on.
So keep up the good work, I love you, you're telling the truth and I'm so glad I found
you.
Donna, you're awesome, please don't take me anymore but absolutely, it's not that your
parents were bad people, they knew if you just gave your kids everything it ruined them and
then your loving parent, you still do it and it's just, you can't, but it's like doing
this to a culture is, will destroy everything and it's such an epic time to be alive but
look at how they're having to pull out all the stops but they're lying.
That shows me the establishments on its last legs but that doesn't mean that when this
establishment collapses, we're in some heaven.
We then have to be good and honorable and we have to go out and work hard and employ
people and build a future because if we don't do it, Donna, who will?
Oh, absolutely, absolutely and you've got my support, like I said, I'm getting the product,
I'm getting the word out, it's just awesome to have found you because I feel I have found
the truth and you know, Devin Nunes is my congressman out here in California.
He's awesome.
I wrote him, I wrote him, you know, I get his emails and I wanted to respond the other
day or I did and then I got something back about government servers and all this stuff
and I had, I know I had sent something to him before and didn't see that so I just didn't
even go there.
Let me tell you what's happening because there's an info war going on by the globalists and
I'm glad you raised that.
That's a problem.
There's so much we don't have time to cover at all.
That's why I'm so frustrated constantly because I'm not doing a good job because you just
were my take more calls.
You reminded me I've had my crew send me this.
I've had Roger Stone sent it and I've seen it when you're going to Congress or your congressman
sends you something if he's a Republican or she's a Republican, Google will say stuff
like these are government servers.
We're not sure this is safe.
They're trying to get between you and your congressperson.
Is that what you're talking about because I've seen that.
Because I am, see I'm an old lady kind of but it's kind of funny.
I'm still working but I'm a computer tech.
I have so embraced all this technology.
I had to learn it.
Sure.
Well, they're scared of Nunez.
They're scared of anybody with a backbone.
So anybody with a backbone, Google's playing their games.
Okay, and then guess what, I had my accounts hacked last week through PayPal and then ultimately
I hear you ma'am.
That's what I'm saying.
They're trying to intimidate everybody.
We're in a war and people shouldn't get scared and go, Oh God, if I fight, they'll get me.
No, fight harder.
We're in a war.
They're having to do all this to average people as an attempt to bloody your nose and make
you roll over.
Can you imagine what they'll do, Donna, if we roll over how bad it'll be?
No, this old lady's not rolling over.
And so anyway, I didn't answer their little questions about the server and all that junk.
So I wrote Devin a letter and I thought, well, I'm going to try a snail mail and I sent it
to Washington.
That was all when the memo was coming out and all that stuff.
But I told him in there that I feel like I've hooked up with the real news info.
Absolutely.
God bless you.
And that's what it is, folks.
They are so scared of you communicating with real people because they know you're awake
and they're doing all sorts of weird crap.
And it's admitted and I mean, I'm telling millions of people, you're Russian agents,
if you're pro America and sending them emails, Twitter, that is so aggressive and bullish.
I mean, it's just, it's like saying, you're a child molester, you're a, you know, it's
sick.
Let's take another call for you.
I'm going to break here.
It's been on the longest here.
Thank you, Donna.
Let's talk to David in Washington.
David, thanks for calling.
Go ahead.
Hi, David.
Oh, hey, Alex.
Welcome.
Sorry about that.
It's my first time calling.
We'll go ahead and finish your point.
Oh, so, so you thought the guy, Nicholas Cruz, yes, yep, I don't, yeah, if I say that he's
the white supremacy, but what is that thing new?
So, so I looked at your comment and tell one particular comment and I was, what, like,
what the hell?
The comment says that Nicholas Cruz, the Florida, what's the Trump supporter?
I was like, absolutely.
Let me let you go on that point.
You don't, we don't know what any of this is.
He was in foster care.
He was mentally ill.
His brother's at a mental institution.
He's just a classic cutout.
We don't know.
The point is the FBI was warned they did nothing.
And so we know there's a major, major cover up going on.
Now, look at all these callers.
Corey, I appreciate your call.
We've got so many people here to go to, but we've got to go to break here in just a minute.
Carlos, 30 seconds from Canada, Carlos, go ahead.
Thank you, Alex.
Just a, just a reminder to anyone who is examining what a globalist is.
In many, many instances, these globalists are very wealthy individuals who had corporations,
the size of which and the, and the volumes of, of sales greater than entire nations.
And these individuals, in my opinion, the best analogy is to think of them as children
with a gun.
You, you say, wait a second, do you extract the child or do you take the gun away?
So these corporations, corporations, revenues, shareholdings are so enormous these days that
people try to.
That's right.
Most of these Force 100 are bigger than top governments.
They're arrogant.
They've gotten away with everything and they're just running wild.
And Trump is just trying to slow that down a little and they're throwing a temper tantrum.
There is a solution, Alex.
And if you give me a minute I'd explain how go about it.
Real fast.
Give us a solution.
We gotta go to break.
simply to examine the Federal Reserve and the central banking financing of
corporations. Corporations always tell you to your face that they're
responsible to their shareholders. Therefore, they should not be involved in
national issues. They should be involved. No, that's right. They talk about, I think
they backfired here. Trying to make it all about Russians meddling. What about
big banks, money, power, Democratic Party? Exactly. Great point. We'll be back. Carlos,
you're awesome. Stay with us. 30 minutes of transmission left, infowars.com,
newswars.com, 50% off on our top-selling fluoride-free toothpaste, but it's
about to end. I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest
quality info wars biome defense probiotic. We wanted to come out with the
largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to
improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body. Biome
defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from
over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and
intestinal function. Our researchers are confident that we have been able to
develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market. Secure your biome
defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get
started supporting your digestive system naturally. We've been testing this
formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public, so
please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the
info war. Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic
weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid. So
what do we do about it? Well for starters don't just sit there and take it,
fight back with the all-new supercharged Brain Force Plus and fill the
rust without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced
neural activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient
called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick. Other
ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive
enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of
mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus secure your bottle right now at
infowarstore.com. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info
war's life. Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and
melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and
achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the
pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let
your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the
day. Info War's Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above
and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you
deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com. Hey did you know that
you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its
nutrition and flavor. That's right now's the time to build your own food
storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to infowarstore.com to learn
more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and
let me tell you something it is perfect for freeze-drying fruits, vegetables,
meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals. That's what I'm talking
about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or
dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no
comparison. Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color
and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years. Now that's what
I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest Rights is truly the
world's best, most affordable freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for? Check it
out right now at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Thank you for joining us during this Sunday transmission. Again, I'm Alex Jones, your host and in this short segment, I wanted to break down two incredibly important
facts of logic of common law. First off, some of the parents and some of the
victims of the tragic event last week in Florida that left 17 dead have asked
President Trump to do something and to stop it, stop it now, stop the gun
violence. You can't ban evil. It's up to all of us to be prepared for it to be
ready for it and to not help create a climate with all the psychotropic drugs
and all the shoot them up video games and all the nihilistic death culture. It's
up to all of us to do something about that and to also see the warning signs
of someone that called himself school shooter for two years and who we've
interviewed people that call the FBI on him when he said he was going to shoot
school. We've had him on our show Friday. No coverage of the media. We've had
students from the school that survived and saying that they believe there
should have been, you know, armed teachers there like the Trump supporting
coach that Russians saved a bunch of people. They got shot and killed. Why
didn't he have a concealed carry? So we can't mitigate all evil. We can't stop
all evil. We can't guarantee that as long as there's, you know, free will that we
can make the world utopia. Everyone that says they can do that is a liar. And by
the way, I am trying to do something. It's communism and socialism and
fascism and authoritarianism that has killed over 200 million people in the
20th and early part of 21st century and that's on record. And so you look at the
Islamists is killing millions every year and targeting Christians and it's not
even on our news. They won't even say it's Islam when it happens. But when you
get 17 people killed, it is the end of the world and all gun owners by
extension are then guilty and people like Jimmy Kimmel get on TV and say you
dirty Christians and they are a stuff in your pockets. It's your fault. It's not
my fault that I live in America where our forebearers believed that the
citizens had a right to arm themselves for the first time in history except for
Switzerland. I am proud of that fact. When you go to info wars.com, you'll see
all the articles right there with Mitt Romney and all the rest of these
people getting on the bandwagon saying yes, do something. We do have the mental
health laws. We do have the things in place and over and over again, nothing's
done. So that's the big truth. You can't ban evil, but you can do things that
mitigate it and control it and cut it down. And everything we're doing with
Hollywood and this culture and all this nihilism and all this garbage is making
it worse. Not in the mass shooting area. That's flat. But culturally, there are a
lot of mental illness problems. There are a lot of other issues that we cover. Now
that said, the epic news, the other great truth is the CIA and others actually
say that the Cold War for monopolar U.S. control was won by the early 1990s, that
that was the third world war and that it was an info war and a cold war. And they
call the coming cyber war, economic war, global system with terrorism and the rest
of it, the fourth world war. The issue is, is that the globalists are actually
playing nation states off against each other and there's a fight to return
America to the people again. And that's the big, huge fight that's happening that
they don't want you to debate, that they don't want you to know, that they don't
want you to discuss. And that's why when there's giant Islamic attacks and
hundreds killed every month by people driving trucks over folks, they don't
even call it Islamic. It's barely in the news and they sure as hell don't sit
there and then blame the truck manufacturers, though they have put up
what they call freedom barriers all over Europe, where you can't have any open
squares because Muslims will run over you hundreds and hundreds. I mean, you've
seen it. It's incredible. But again, just like with guns, if you were going to
sit there and blame gun owners, well, then you have to blame all car owners for
anybody that ever uses a car as a weapon to kill people and cars to a lot of more
people every year, obviously, than guns do. So there's this big epic historic
battle going on right now and you've got real history being overwritten and
you've got Marvel Comics kind of writing its whole new history. We'll cover
coming up later in the last segment of today's radio show with Paul Watson's
review of the new Black Panther movie, fourth largest grossing film in history,
fake quasi history. What people take this stuff as like real history versus real
history. But there is a huge epic historical crossroads battle happening
right now. It doesn't mean nationalist or perfect. It doesn't mean Trump's
perfect. What it means is, though, he's really trying to be the president,
really trying to return power back into the United States, the sovereignty back
into our Congress, back into our courts, back into our legislatures. And that's
why the foreign offshore globalist power is saying he's a outside power. That's
why they're saying I'm an outside power and you didn't really vote for Trump
because you can't really be an American. They're saying you don't have a stake as
an American. And if you try to vote and act as one, somehow you're with a foreign
power. That's the incredible psych warfare alchemy crap that's totally
falling its face where they've indicted a troll farm that it turns out BuzzFeed
wrote about, and then we talked about in 2013, 2014, that was pro Sanders and pro
Soros, whoever pays them. And it turns out most of their work has been to just
make money by whoever's paying them. It's kind of like they talked about the
$200,000 package that RT bought in 2016 because Twitter sold them the ad package.
They've tried to sell us ad packages. I bought ad packages before on Facebook,
not on Twitter. And they tell you the key words to promote and what to do. And
that's the Russian bots is RT $200,000. They want them to buy millions of
dollars worth of it, like the other media did during the whole campaign.
So there is no Russian collusion. That's been proven. It's a way to change the
subject away from the epic battle of the attempt to restore our republic and
bring our country back. And the globalist, one of them, be able to point to all the
independent real media that's exposing their narratives and their propaganda and
their lies and say that in full wars and news wars that we're all Russian agents.
That is so authoritarian, so dangerous and so out of control. They don't want us
there so we can point out. Here's just a few examples of where the New York Daily
News and others ran the headline that the killer was trained by the NRA, that he
went to a white supremacist compound. Both those were lies. They know it wasn't
true. They still won't retract. We write about it to show how it's aligned. They
said no republican would come on and talk about the shooting. It turned out they
banned all the republicans and that they'd all actually been doing interviews
and Ted Cruz was smart enough to document it and take photos of it. So
that's what, you know, Mr. Como does when he's not involved in hit-and-run
operations, when he's drunk driving is he gets, he goes, everybody's scared to come
on my show when they're not having anyone on. And it's again, it's a new level of
lying. CNN reports that pro-gun tweets are coming from Russia bots. That's from
twitchyuponinforwers.com. So that's how they operate. That's how they do it and
it's really simply put amazing. I'm begging everybody to understand we're in an
information war and the reason Trump said it is he's actually doing what he
said he would do and trying to restore the sovereignty of the nation. Mitt Romney,
that I was just showing you the article, it's uponinforwers.com, is getting ready to
run for the Senate. So he's positioned to look like a winner and run against
Trump in 2020. And he's gonna be the establishment's real challenger because
he wants to keep us in TPP and all these global governance situations and the
elite doesn't know what to do because they're entitled and believe they
control this country. They're the multinational combines that have hijacked
it. They're the issue. They're the problem and they need to be exposed. And I
know you as an audience know that. The reason they're trying to contain us and
the reason they're trying to block you sharing the articles and videos and
people reporting it everywhere is because they know it's effective and they
know you're effective and if they can silence info wars, they can silence you.
All right, that's it for this special transmission. Again, coming up the final
segment of the radio show today, we're gonna do our analysis of Black Panther,
the movie and look at it from all different angles and more and then
they'll be the weekday transmission, 11 a.m. Central, infowars.com forward slash
show. Be sure and watch the other broadcasts as well with David Knight and
I'll ensure and many others as we expand the amount of transmissions coming out
every day. Now 10 hours live from the info wars news center in Austin, Texas. I'm
Alex Jones.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by info wars
life. Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the
bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily
absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion
caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive
enzymes like those naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of
protein rich foods again. You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing
the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat
diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bio
availability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your
muscles. Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and
carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go
to waste. Use carnivore by info wars life. Head to infowarslife.com and secure
your bottle now. That's infowarslife.com. You know I've got some talking points
here about caveman from infowarslife.com but instead of going on those
talking points let me just give you what I've experienced personally. From all the
wives tales in every culture we know that the bones have the essence. We know
chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again in every culture
this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how
strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the
amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and
gentlemen whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your
veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and
gentlemen is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there
and it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com. What it can do
for your family and again I want to thank you all for your support. You are
funding the information war in 2018. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you
can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be
the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet. For more than a decade my
favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the
Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have now
managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com. This
coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down this is my
favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the
Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today order a bag or two and I don't
think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune
support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press all the while
enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com.
Introducing Floralife the new probiotic line developed exclusively by
InfoWarsLife after years of research on the human microbiome. Not all probiotics
are made the same. Floralife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system
that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for
maximum effect. This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if
you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic then you're cheating your gut
health and your wallet. Floralife supports your body's core where you need it most
including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did you
know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why
increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health. Floralife
is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50
billion probiotic for a 30-day advanced gut restoration program. Head to
infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Floralife probiotics today. That's
infowarslife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And ladies and gentlemen we are back here with you on this Sunday evening in
the final segment. I am Alex Jones your host. I want to go to a very interesting
piece that Paul Watson put together over the weekend dealing with the new
Black Panther movie that is now the fourth largest grossing movie on opening
weekend ever and may even eclipse that. Okay great I hope it does well. I can't
stand these new superhero movies because they try to pack too much into it
there's it's it's it's like watching a World of Warcraft video game or
something. Kind of like the first Hobbit they just came back out with was pretty
good but by the third installment I thought I was again watching World of
Warcraft it's just ruined and I've seen the trailers it looks like some of the
same garbage. I hope it's different because I like a fantasy film as much as
anybody does. My problem is over and over and over and over and over again
these films are political and they admit this one is political. What I know is
this I'm gonna go see the film this weekend I'll give you my review because
something hyped this big I need to be able to actually you know see it so I
can analyze it. Hollywood is in free fall right now and it's down over 20% in
the last year and they're down more than 40% in the last couple decades because
people are sick of them and it's the same phenomenon we're now seeing with the
Oscars collapse in their viewership or the Golden Globes or or or or any of
these programs. People quite frankly are sick and tired of it and they just don't
want to sit there and watch the establishment anymore they want real
stuff even if it's a train wreck like in full wars is sometime and that's why
you see the Olympics having their ratings go into the toilet instead of
stratospheric. People are tuning out now that creates the perfect storm of
mainstream media coming in and wanting to censor and wanting to shut down new
alternative competition whether that competition is accurate or not it fills
the spectrum they don't want it there and they admit they don't want it there
because it is basically exposing them not just the media complex but the whole
government complex all of these white shoe boy Harvard types that think they're
the new elites they're the ones pushing identity politics and race politics
embedding on that to control the population because they know the people
not just here but worldwide are awake to what they've done and what they have
become. I like going and seeing an exotic film set in some far off imaginary
world like this mythical kingdom in Africa but I don't like being lectured
about how evil I'm you know I am or told this is a film with a 99% score which
we all know is baloney. So let's hear from Paul Joseph Watson as we conclude
this global Sunday transmission. The Black Panther movie is a piece of shit. I
haven't actually seen it but we now apparently live in a world where the
quality of a movie is determined before it's even released solely on the basis
of how woke it is. It doesn't even matter whether I've seen it or not. If you give
Black Panther a bad review you're racist I don't care I don't care I don't care. The very fact that you're
ordering me to like it or be called racist the very fact that you're so
fragile you're talking about censoring bad movie reviews as hate speech to
artificially keep the ranking high means I'm gonna say it's a piece of you know
why because I don't like being told what to think. So it's a piece of it.
You white people stay the f*** out of our way on Feb 16. Yeah I'm pretty sure if all
white people boycotted Black Panther on its release date given that they make
up about 62% of the US population Black Panther would be a total flop for
which you probably blame white people. So I carefully did not buy Black Panther
tickets for the opening weekend because I did not want to be the white person
sucking black joy out of the theater whilst the appropriate date for me to buy
tickets is next weekend okay. It's never okay bigot. By buying a ticket you could
be taking up a seat that would otherwise have been taken by a black person. Why are
you disenfranchising African-Americans? So if you go and see the Black Panther
movie as a white person that's bad and if you don't go and see it because maybe
like me you're not into movies about comic book heroes that's bad too because
it means you're racist. Black Panther's Wakanda gets everything right about Africa
that Trump got so wrong. Yeah let me explain something. Africa is a real
continent with real countries. Wakanda doesn't exist but wait let's say it did
exist. Wakanda is actually almost identical to the very stereotype of what
you say Trump is trying to create in America. Wakanda is homogenous. Wakanda is
isolationist. Wakanda is willing to exploit its natural resources. Wakanda is
protected by walls. Wakanda doesn't allow immigration. Wakanda is based around
national self-interest. That's literally everything you say Trump is bad for
doing but when fictional black people are doing it suddenly it's amazing. Buzzfeed.
Finally seeing black people ruling the black country on the black continent
mining the black business thriving with their black dollars and black resources.
Right so now you're in favor of an ethno-state. I mean gee all you need to do
is replace one word and Buzzfeed and the alt-right would be on the exact same
page. So black lives matter are portrayed as the villains. The hero is a
nationalist. The hero is basically black Trump. Why is Hollywood pandering to
racist Trump supporters? But seriously it sounds like a lot of social justice
warriors are gonna be very disappointed with this movie. More than a movie Black
Panther is a movement. Black people are be striving to remind the world for years
that Africa is a continent not a country a continent made up of nations rich with
histories and achievements and fields from the arts to mathematics but such
representation is seldom being portrayed by Hollywood. Then along came Black Panther
which opens in theaters across the country on Friday. Okay this is Wakanda and
this is Africa. Africa is portrayed as a sh** hole because it's a sh** hole. It's
not a high-tech Hollywood CGI future scape. Africa has fundamental problems
poverty disease starvation poor infrastructure rampant political
corruption six million slaves who were enslaved by other Africans. None of these
problems are gonna be fixed by the portrayal of a place that doesn't exist
in a movie. That's like saying the movie Wall-E was gonna fix the Earth's
environmental problems it's that f**king dumb. Also why are all these leftists
white-splaining to black people telling them that the Black Panther movie is
some kind of emancipation proclamation 2.0. I mean talk about bigotry of low
expectations. You think an entire ethnic group is so fragile it needs a comic
book character for self-validation. Sounds pretty racist to me. If this movie is
so empowering and such a force of nature why can't you tolerate criticism of it?
I mean when dictators get 98% of the vote in shamal actions it's not normally
because 98% of the population really likes them. It's normally because there
are consequences for not voting for a dictator. One reviewer gave Black
Panther 3 out of 5. Pretty good review right? No not good enough. He was
immediately threatened with physical violence. This is less like a movie and
more like a cult. It's like the Church of Scientology. No criticism allowed.
Isn't it funny how a real black hero is being completely overshadowed by a
comic book character. Both are starring in movies but Anthony Sadler helped stop
a terrorist attack. He subdued a terrorist. He saved countless lives. He's a
real hero. This guy put on a leotard and pretended to be the king of a fictional
country. And which black hero does the entertainment industry worship an exalt
leotard guy? The dude who looks like Catwoman got a sex change. That's your
hero. Could it be anything to do with the fact that Sadler's movie is directed by
an evil conservative? And despite being panned by the critics, Clint Eastwood's
film featuring a real black hero did well at the box office. What's all this crap
about first black superhero? I mean there's been tons of black superheroes.
Storm, War Machine, Luke Cage over there on Netflix, Nick Fury, Cyborg over in the
DC universe. That stupid flying guy with the fake wings. I don't remember what his
name is. Who cares? But there's lots of black characters. Tons of them. Tons of
black superhero characters. And they say oh well he's not the first black
superhero, but he's the first black superhero to ever have his own movie.
That's not true either. There was the entire Blade Trilogy. There was spon.
There was steel. Terrible movie, but still a black superhero movie. Meteor Man,
Blank Man, Hancock with Will Smith. You could even make a case for Men in Black
also with Will Smith. Given its hype about being a watershed cultural moment
for social justice. Why are there no gay people in the Black Panther movie? Not so
woke after all. I don't see many disabled autistic Muslim furry dwarves in
there either. Big ups. So the media's all like conservatives are angry at the Black
Panther movie. They're so triggered. I'm not angry at the movie. I'm unimpressed by
your transparent effort to exploit the movie. A racist divisive social
engineering by relentlessly shoving it down everyone's throat. Telling us what
we can and can't think. Lecturing us on how we should behave because of our
skin colour. No! F*** you! Not liking the crappy feminist Ghostbusters remake
doesn't make me a sexist. Not genuflecting in front of Black Panther as
the greatest movie of all time doesn't make me a racist. So if you're looking
forward to seeing Black Panther then good. I hope you enjoy it. But how did we get
to the point where everything is so hyper partisan? Everything is so divisive
that a comic book movie becomes a huge wedge issue. Don't we have enough to
bicker about and hate each other for already? Stop policing people's thoughts
down to a level where they're racist if they don't like a movie. That's stupid.
If I want to call this movie a piece of s*** then I will. This movie is a piece of s***.
In the history of M4's life we brought out a lot of amazing products like
Survival Shield X2, SuperMell Vitality and so many others with its unique
delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for
maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard of multi-vitamin mineral
products and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral
fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means
it's clean. That means it's pure and rest-secured. You're finding the tip of
the spear in the info war. That's infowarslives.com and vitamin mineral
fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
New from EmRick's Essentials. Fragrance free natural deodorant for your body
care needs. Playing basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat. To
maintain my game I need all the confidence I can get. That's why I use
EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant made with organic ingredients. This
deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals to ionize odor
keeping me fresh throughout the day. While shooting hoops the last thing I want
is sweaty armpits making my hands slippery and the ball wet. That's why I
recommend EmRick's Essentials fragrance free deodorant. Even though it's
unscented it's effective at combating strong body odor and I don't have to
worry about any unwanted allergic reactions to my sensitive skin. Whether
you're a guy or gal the last thing you want to be worried about is your deodorant.
No petroleum based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty free. Stay in the
game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance free natural deodorant available at
infowarslives.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
