You thought the lead in winter would bring you down forever, but you rode upon a steamer
to the violence of the sun.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Our biggest problem is that we adapt to tyranny.
Our biggest problem is we have been conditioned to go along to get along and then incrementally
be dehumanized.
I was thinking before I went live, watching the President speak at CPAC, he just concluded
we're going to be hearing excerpts of that, Wayne LaPierre of the NRA, Vice President
Pence, what a great Vice President, just awesome, just so well spoken, so gentlemanly, so Christian,
so focused, so dedicated, so real, amazing, but side issue, and Pence is really growing
on me, because we're getting to know him.
See mainstream media gets between us and other people, and that's what hit me is there's
Trump's approval rating now at 50%, and that's out from Rasmussen and similar things show
he's upticking on other big so-called pull systems.
It's more like 65, and that's why they're panicking so hard, just like I told you during
the election, I've studied the polls, you can study them, I'm not going to go back into
how it works, but they oversample on purpose, nine to 15 points on average for Democrats,
and that's why you have that major disparity.
They just say America is a Democratic Party system, and they just sell that line.
Well, we're not Democrats and we're not Republicans either.
We want freedom, we want America, we want common sense, we want free market, we want
the American dream, get off our back.
That's who we are, that's who we are, and there's old people and young people and Christians
and libertarians and black people, white people, gay people, it's just folks that don't want
to be in a box and know the Democratic Party are a bunch of corrupt criminals working with
a bunch of disgusting blue blood Republican trash who have been parasiting off of us
and trying to dumb us down so they can control us and then writing white papers admitting
it, and I felt raped this morning, but not in a victim way, with a revulsion of how much
I disdain CNN and the New York Times and the Washington Post and MSNBC because they're
consciously liars, they're consciously criminals, they're consciously with psych warfare trying
to create as much racism and sexism and division as they can, and again, it's in the WikiLeaks,
it's in their white papers, it's in, they all write academic reports on it, Gruber gets
up on TV and says, I'm here to lie to these dumbasses, God, they're idiots, and that's
what's frustrating to me is that they superimpose, they do everything they can to keep you from
actually hearing what I have to say, they do everything they can to keep you from what
Trump's actually saying, they do everything to get in between all of us, even though Trump's
super popular, even though M4 is super popular, everything we go on has the highest ratings
ever, they've got 10 different TV shows modeled after yours truly, but then misrepresenting
who I am trying to destroy me while they try to keep me from telling you who I really am.
Think about that, more than 10 shows right now, I'm talking to Michael Savage, he goes,
is that homo and God based on you, and I go, yeah, he goes, really, really, some people
think it is, I'm like, no, they say it is in hundreds of articles, and again, it's this
thing where you're being destroyed, there are these characters based on you, and they're
not even who you are, they steal your identity, and then Joe Rogan has his biggest podcast
times double ever, and they try to censor it and block it and not let it go out, so
I can't even talk to you.
And what made me think of this was watching Trump speak, but also just realizing that
the whole facade's coming down, I mean, they can't hide it, it's this whole fake CNN town
whole thing, and then they're lying saying it is it fake, the whole thing's completely
scripted, they always have been, just like the debates.
The scientists at InfoWars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support, discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies, bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available, turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today, it is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric
root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
I will say this folks, everything that's turning out, now it's amazing, it's come full
circle.
That is the chance of Lock Her Up and Hillary for Prison 2016 that all originated right
here on this transmission.
And that's why they're trying to block us and trying to censor us because we put out
memes that are truth-based and that's why they're viral.
And I think that's going to be InfoWars' new slogan, not just that there's a war on
for your mind, but InfoWars, the truth is viral.
In fact, you have Friget trademarked that right now, thank you.
InfoWars, the truth is viral and you can't stop the signal.
InfoWars, you can't stop the signal.
And the reason I opened the broadcast up with that is it really hit me today and when I
say this, everybody's going to go, and you told us the grass is green and the sky is
blue.
I know that.
I'm only telling you what you already know, but we tend to, again, adapt to the tyranny
and just kind of go along with it because we don't want to be troublemakers.
Well, if you look at where this goes incrementally, it goes to a very hellish place with open
censorship against nationalists, against Christians, against libertarians, and then
everybody else, and it's already started where they're just censoring everybody.
Anybody super popular who is an establishment, particularly if they're liberal, but more
of a classical liberal, they're being taken over, they're being attacked because if you
got 20 billion views on YouTube, you know, we've only got like 6 billion, that's bigger
than anything out there.
If you're smiling like PewDiePie, and they came to him again two years ago and said,
you give us control of your channel, and you partner with YouTube, they're already running
ads, they're already making 70% of money, or we're going to shut your ass down, and
he didn't go along with them, and they started shutting him down and demonetizing him.
Think about how criminal that is.
You sign a contract, you follow their rules, you're the most popular thing in the world.
Students are like, who's that, believe me, you go to a high school or a junior high,
and you're PewDiePie, it's like Elvis Presley showed up.
Same thing with me, by the way, that's what really worries the globalists.
I mean, I go to a high school of instance stuff from other schools with my children
at it, and I mean, I walked in a hamburger place near a high school when I left early
one day, it was like 334, and high schoolers came in, and I was mobbed like I was Elvis
Presley.
Now, that's what scares the globalist, because young people aren't buying into this stuff
where they get sat down in a seat and they're told there's not two genders and all white
people are bad, and by the way, it was Indian kids, it was Chinese kids, white kids, black
kids mobbing me at this place, and I'm not bragging, I'm giving you the good news.
But, but here's the bad news, if we just accept the massive censorship that's already kicking
in, it's going to become total, and they're going to de-platform all of our finances,
and I'm talking about you, you noticed the big banks announced last week that they are
now going to target the NRA, gun shops, and gun owners, and not let you do business with
them.
Now remember, if you're a gay couple and somebody didn't bake your cake, you get $500,000.
If you're a libertarian or a conservative, oh, we have policies, you can't, they're
talking about trying to not let Cabela's have credit card service, or the NRA, that's
in the news.
Do you understand?
That's what Hitler did to his political enemies starting in 33, 34, 35, 36.
He first took political control in Germany, killed off the SA, people that brought him
into power, and put the SS in, his Pretorian Guard.
Then he started going after the finances, and shutting down people's businesses, and
then hurting them into ghettos.
We're already being herded into electronic ghettos, a term Matt Drudge coined, at least
I first heard it from him, and hooked it up, and he's the one that came from.
Maybe he could correct me, but I mean, it is internet ghettos.
And that's what we've been put in, because we're the winners, because we're number one.
Drudge is the biggest website in the world, not just news.
And what does the WikiLeaks say, what are the new documents that came out last week
say?
Just type it in.
Soros is all over the news saying ban Drudge in Europe, just ban the URL.
Do you understand the magnitude of that?
Because we're promoting America, and real freedom, and real diversity, and real tolerance,
and promoting what's successful, and what's sexy, and what works.
America with all its accession problems, compare it to Venezuela or North Korea.
Yeah, there's a new meme out there, think I'm Hitler, and want me to take their guns
away with Trump, amazing.
So think about the condescending, arrogant garbage from CNN and MSNBC, when they stage
the debates, and give Hillary all the questions, and then get caught lying about it, and giving
it to Donald Brazil, or how they stage fake polls, where they admitted that they polled
Democrats three to one in some of these polls.
They were taking 70% calls, admitting it, on phone polls from Democrats, and then wonder
why Hillary, they said, was up at 67%.
That's ridiculous.
When the New York Times says there's a 97% chance Hillary wins, horsemener wasn't even
a real poll, they admitted it was, they are experts say this, they pull it out of their
rear ends.
So Donald Brazil says she doesn't know how she gave him to Hillary, but remember, she's
in the WikiLeaks giving him to Hillary, CNN giving him to her, then she got caught lying
about it, and now she doesn't remember how she gave him the questions, and then we forget
the real question is, why were you given the questions?
See, it's never a debate about what's in the WikiLeaks, it's always, oh, the bad people
that gave them to us, it's like somebody peeks over your fence and sees you burying your
dead husband or your dead wife, and the police show up and go, why were you looking over
their fence?
Yeah, we found a dead body, we don't care about Mr. Smith and the dead body, you're going
to jail for peeping Tom, you piece of crap.
And we have staged questions on screen, CNN has been absolutely caught in a beautiful
derailment here, they've been staging these town halls since they started CNN in 1981.
I've had my reporters get into them, they first screen you, they check the parking lot
for bumper stickers, they put you through a screening process, and then they give you
questions, and if you act like you're not going to follow it, you don't get in.
And it's incredible, CNN are such liars, that's why I quit being interviewed by them, because
they would always say, oh, we've got a car coming to get you, and you're going to be
live, yes sir, you want to be live, you'll be live, and it probably happened 15 times
when I'd show up, and I'd go, this host isn't on for two hours, oh, you're right, we're
taping it, and then they go for 20 minutes, and then they edit it down where it doesn't
even make sense, they'll ask you one question, cut back to the person, and then cut back
with another answer that wasn't even the same topic.
Remember Katie Couric got sued for that.
I recorded the old Seahag Megan Kelly doing the thing to me.
They would edit stuff 10, 15 minutes apart on totally different subjects where I sounded
like a lunatic on air, but total jump cuts, you know, you don't want to edit it when there's
a cut every second, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, cut back to Kelly, cut to a shot of the kids,
cut to a shot of Newtown, cut to, well, I'm talking because it's edited, just like refrigerator
magnets, you can write whatever you want with those things, and they just take them and
move them all around.
So we're going to go to break, when we come back, CNN has now been caught not just staging
all this stuff, but then lying about staging.
Hello, I'm Mike Lindell, the inventor of MyPillow, and like all of you out there, I had problem
sleeping.
Pillows would go flat, I would flip flop all night long, I would wake up with a sore neck,
maybe a headache or feel like I needed a nap even though I slept eight hours.
When I invented MyPillow, I wanted it to where you could move the patent and fill to give
you the exact support you need as an individual, regardless of sleep position.
MyPillow will get you into that deep REM sleep faster and you will stay there longer.
It's not about how much time we spend in bed, it's about how much of that quality sleep
we get.
I do all of my own manufacturing right here in the United States, I have a 10-year warranty,
you can wash and dry MyPillow, and I give you a 60-day money back guarantee so you have
nothing to lose.
And here's my best opera ever, you can buy one of MyPillow's and get one absolutely
free.
Visit MyPillow.com or call 800-870-0305 and use promo code GCN.
That's MyPillow.com or 800-870-0305 with promo code GCN.
One out of four people listening to my voice right now could die from heart disease.
This could be your last year and you don't even know it because you don't know the early
warning signs.
If you think you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal, think again because studies
show that 75% of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol levels.
Let me introduce you to Strauss Heart Drops, a world-famous heart and brain formula made
in Canada.
It's time-tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your money back.
Learn more at SignsOfHeartDisease.com, they are shipping free this month.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
At InfowarsLife.com.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super-blue, fluoride-free products.
InfowarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty, fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super-blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and super-charge
your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal
and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super-blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super-blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients, xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super-blue, fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com.
That's InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
So CNN has been caught staging a town hall.
Of course they staged them.
And then they said, oh, we don't even hand out questions.
And then they have blown up HD video of saying here is your question typed out by CNN.
That's what they do.
You're there as a prop.
You're there in a production.
Here CNN got caught staging with a movie director, Muslims at a vigil after a terror
attack in London.
And because the Muslims weren't going out and protesting terror attack, they never
do against the infidels.
So they just go get some people and it turned out many of them were actors and weren't
even Muslims.
They were Sikhs and people.
They just dressed up like Muslims.
I mean, this is next level, ladies and gentlemen, and they do it over and over and over again
like your idiots.
And it turned out it was a film crew doing it.
Much of CNN is a PR company.
They've been paid over $100 million by Qatar.
I've had CNN producers on that went public years ago.
Who was that attractive blonde reporter?
And then she just went into private life and got married.
The lion.
Yeah.
Amber, we need to get her on because she was there.
They're like, per show she was doing, they were paying them $300,000 to cover up and
to lie about the people they were torturing and killing.
And she said, I'm not doing it.
She'd go over there and have footage of them machine gunning people and then CNN would
tell her to put out the opposite.
I mean, do you understand the criminal nature of these people?
And Amber Lyon wouldn't do it, even though she was award-winning.
You name it.
Bye-bye.
They basically told her to resign, so she just left because she had integrity.
Cheryl Atkinson published that the ATF was shipping guns into Mexico to blame the Second
Amendment.
To get gun control passed as a false flag.
They did to shoot all the poor Mexicans, but they sure as hell shipped the guns down there
to the criminals so they could kill them.
If I give you a gun to go kill people, I'm just as guilty.
And she got let go at CBS for that, didn't she?
Because she had integrity.
And you look at these scumbags on CNN and Cuomo saying, you're not allowed to read WikiLeaks.
If you read WikiLeaks, you're going to go to jail.
And reportedly, he's such a bully thug, he's a huge guy, like 6, 7, his brother, I mean,
they are criminals in my view.
And the people that know him up in New York say, oh my God, they are.
His brother's like, if you're a Christian or a gun owner, get out of the state.
And people went, man, that's really rude of you, man, I'm in it, get out.
We run this state now, you get out of here, shameful, fugs.
And he's just so threatening when he just looks at the camera and he goes, by the way,
you're not allowed to read WikiLeaks, I am.
And I'll tell you what you need to know.
The arrogance.
I'll tell you what you need to know, tuts, and I'll slap you around if you don't get
in line.
And he gets to drunk drive and hit and run in front of people at a big town party, running
into people's cars in Main Street, falling out drunk, but he's a combo, so he gets the
thuzer what he wants the thuz, thug, piece of crap, and I'm sick of these people.
You don't bully me.
You piece of garbage, you un-American filth, seeing in all you scum, you scum.
America is wise to all of you filthy, lying, degenerate pieces of crap.
And we'll read what we want, and we'll watch what we want, and we'll do what we want.
And thugs like you get in our face and try to muscle us, you know what'll happen, scum.
Come down here to catch us and run your big dirty thug mouth and see what happens, boy.
Running his mouth about the president, he's a thug, how the president's effeminate and
all this stuff.
Let me tell you.
Let me tell you who is effeminate, is traitors like you that serve evil, and to go around
trying to bully people and seeing in going to that woman's house that's our listener
we learned, she was listening while I was talking about her, and go and try to threaten
her and say you're a Russian agent and try to intimidate her from her political activities.
You're the thugs, you're the scum.
You're the people trying to say gun owners are responsible for people dying.
It's the media hyping up mass shootings that is 100% affecting the mental illness of these
drug heads and people, and the sheriff's department, not just the sheriff that knew the shooting
was going on and stood out there for four minutes because it looks like he was a big
fat coward, but also the sheriff's department, and I know Roger Stone's son's on the sheriff's
department and I'm sure there's some nice people, but give me a break, just because
he has dinner with the sheriff, I'm mad at Roger, I disagree with him.
I think that sheriff's a big Democrat, he's a big Hillary bootlicker, and they knew what
was coming and they all stood down, and the FBI stood down, and now they get to trash
the second amendment some more, and the sheriff's department sat there, and that's what the
students told us who've been on the show.
They just pulled up in their cars and waited for more backup to get there.
I mean, I'm not a hero, but I guarantee you, somebody's going around here shooting people
or a school, I'm going to find them and I'm going to put bullets in them, or I'm going
to die trying, instinctive, instinctive, how did we become so cowardly?
Well, it's called being a Democrat, it's called being a sack of garbage, it's called being
a selfish piece of filth, that's what it's called.
But their whole house of cards is coming down, isn't it?
Their whole stinking house of cards, and so they're now going, okay, we are going to try
to openly censor anything nationalist or anything anti-globalist because our world
governments in crisis, oh, I thought none of that existed, oh, I thought it's all fake
news, I thought that the global elite worshiping AI gods was something I made up.
Just a year ago on the Joe Rogan Experience, it was national news, how crazy this stuff
I said was, and then six months later, Elon Musk, word for word, said it all, I go to these
big meetings and they're planning to kill everybody, and they're planning to bring in
a one world government, make us merge with computers, put chips in our brains, and then
they, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, is AI a threat to Christianity?
That's what they're pushing, that's their whole plan, that's their religion is forcing
you under it, and you know what, I'm going to raise the alarm because I don't want to
be a slave to this, so a bunch of scum can sell out our species to these robber baron
globalists with delusions of grandeur, and so thugs can sit there like Como and it's
thug brother, and thug around threatening everybody and bullying everybody so we roll
over to him, Scarborough can have, you know, dead girls in his office with their brains
beat out, Como can hit and run in front of everybody, because they're the big guys, they're
the big men, they're the big thugs is what they are.
She got Mika Brzezinski's dad who was a war criminal, mass murderer, oh he didn't get
his pants bloody, but he was a mass murdering anti-American piece of garbage, and now the
big new Brzezinski is rotting in filthy hell with all the rest of the scum and all the
rest of the degenerate control freaks and all of that filthy milk nobility can go straight
to hell.
We'll be right back, I am Alex Jones and the transmission will not be stopped.
The signal will win.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs, holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing,
see guidelines, discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours on the files
I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this, this is the ultimate
immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year, but immune wall is incredible
at folks.
Other formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80, it's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here, the mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate, a citrus peel blend, I mean, this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Glucan, olive leaf, and more, immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com or CRIPOL82533139.
InfowarsLive is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, we have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen block. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms by running
nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials. Now, we are introducing the fruit of the research
of fast-acting chewable tablets, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress, and
fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now
at infowarslife.com or by calling toll 3, CRIPOL82533139.
Introducing Cell Force by Infowars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's
cellular engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting
mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria don't
run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree
that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen
species. The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on
the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force
from Infowars Life. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
In this transmission, you are the resistance. It's Alex Jones.
If you want to know more about what's going on from Paul Watson during the break as they
give me this new article that he published on infowars.com and newswars.com. And guess
what it says? CNN is directly lobbying YouTube to shut down Infowars. And how do we know
this? CNN, the fake news network, and the Nazi-like censors. I mean, that's what the
Nazis did, so the shoe fits. Is going around misrepresenting what we've said and what we've
done, number one. And then number two, telling everyone to go flag our videos as community
guidelines violations so that they can ban Infowars. Let me tell CNN and let me tell YouTube
what I've already told the audience. I know you're listening and I know Media Matters
is listening. I am going to start suing media companies and organizations. I've met with
all the lawyers. It's all lined up. I have to do it to defend the First Amendment. And
we've got so many big cases that we're just looking at the right ones. And you know, I've
been added to lawsuits against Google by Google insiders and things about what's going on.
And so there's a lot of shoes about to drop. But there isn't a jury in the world. I don't
care, liberal conservative, that isn't going to find in our favor. And it's going to be
watershed because you can't attack and demonize somebody and then misrepresent who they are
and then disappear their responses to it. So you can then say something was in the video
that wasn't there. They're saying that I said that no one was shot in Florida and that I
put out videos saying they were all crisis actors, which I've never said. And they started
last week by banning the number one video on YouTube with millions of views in one day
of people just pointing out that this guy is in the drama club and is an actor and is
a spokesperson. Just like we're saying CNN had a town hall. They just had a bunch of
prescripted people there reading off scripts. So we said you've got four kids out of 3000
who are 99% of who's put on television. And then the other young people say, hey, they
gave me scripted questions and then CNN says they're liars. So I haven't said David Hogg's
a liar. I haven't said any of them are liars. I said they're anti gun zealots, their parents
are and their PR operatives now being used to go out for a second of it. That's a total
fact. And I just learned they removed the video and gave us a strike and say that they are
going to remove the other ones. And CNN says they want us banned. Just like we have the
New York Times and YouTube on hidden camera from Project Veritas saying our main job is
to shut down Alex Jones and anybody promoting American flags. That was another quote. Just
just our enemies are people that like American flags. Wow, that's a foreign globalist for
you. Basically anybody like Alex Jones, Alex Jones, Paul Watson, American flags. We shadow
ban them. They don't know that no one can see them anymore. It's real funny. These dumb
ass rednecks. Those are quotes. Because you like second amendment and freedom and don't
want to live in Venezuela. You're an evil white person. And because we are telling the
truth and it's so devastating to them. They misrepresent what we did. They say, well a
video last week that was number one before YouTube caught it bad job, ban it quicker.
They thought about total censorship, but Cal State like it wasn't good enough. It wasn't
quick enough. You understand the type of lawsuits I've got when I've got Twitter, Facebook,
Google, YouTube, parent company, Google on video saying we censor Alex Jones. And then
when you do it, you then go out and say, I said something I didn't say. See, that's
the real art of censorship is you don't just silence the victim. You then go and misrepresent
the victim so you can destroy them. So what you do is you tie their hands, you stick a
gag in their mouth. And then you attack and you attack and you attack and you attack.
So here's the article and everybody to make it go totally viral. This is incredible and
we'll add this live video feed. We'll grab this and put it into the articles. People
can get my response. Alex Jones responds to CNN's calls for it to be banned on YouTube.
And they mean business folks. People say, oh, I don't like Milo or I like Milo or why
is Milo on because they're trying to ban him on Twitter. They're trying to destroy him.
They're trying to shut him down even if I disagreed with him on most things, which I don't.
I would want to lift him up because they're scared of him. So here it is. Info wars is
two strikes away from being banned from YouTube. And then you salivate CNN over this with with
Anderson Cooper, the CIA operative. And then they have hog on. They're going, I'm not a
crisis actor. Info wars. Stop it. And people at dirty Alex Jones said there wasn't a shooting
there. And it's a Cooper said so. He's a good CIA man. And it's all Phil mud up there at
CNN who wants me banned because he can't stand it. He wants to run around and say he's going
to kill the president. And then I'm sitting there saying, Hey, buddy, the military is
watching your ass. He's going to dish it out. Phil mud isn't going to take it. So they want
to shut you up. You're seeing it. And they misrepresent the video. They imply that I'm
saying the shooting didn't happen. And then, Oh, but you can't see the video because we
went and complained and got it banned. And we're asking everybody to go complain. And
this is the no platforming. Hey, we're going to shut down all the gun shops. We're going
to shut down Cabela's. We're going to shut down the NRA. We're not going to let gun owners
do business. We're not going to let credit card companies work with with with with with
gun sellers. This is called hardcore bullying authoritarianism. So that thugs like Como
member, he said, I can read the WikiLeaks. You're not allowed to you'll go to jail if
you do the condescension, the in your face. And it's incredible. So again, they misrepresent
what I've said, just like they do on Sandy Hook. But you've heard it the last week. You've
heard what I really said. You've heard what we laid out. There it is. Remember, it's illegal
to possess WikiLeaks Clinton emails, but it's different for the media to CNN's Chris
Como. Let's play a clip of him. Again, they don't want you to even see this because you
realize how dumb it is. They don't want you to hear Jonathan Gruber saying, you're stupid.
I'm ripping you off. You're a scum. I'm going to feed on you. They don't want you to hear
Feinstein going, we're going to ban all your guns. Oops. Our plan is to totally ban all
guns. Oops. They're trying to take down clips of Chuck Todd saying, I like the New York
Times. Let's just repeal the whole second limit and ban all guns. Oh, that didn't go
over too well. They have articles out. Trump's a kook. He says, we're coming for your guns.
Nobody wants to take your guns. Nobody wants to get rid of your second amendment. That
is crazy. So you need to support us, folks. You need to buy the products. You need to
share the articles, the videos and understand that when they ban us on YouTube, they're
going to go around everywhere else, but everybody else can upload us. Everybody else can put
together the videos. It's your patriotic duty for free speech to get a YouTube account,
to get a Facebook account, to get all the other platforms, Snapchat, everything and just
hammer this info out. Hammer, hammer, hammer, hammer, because it's a war. If they can shut
us up, they're coming for everybody. They're already here. I need everybody's help. I need
everybody to make a big deal out of this. Because again, this is how they do it. This
is how they engage in their anti-American attempt to kill the First Amendment. They
hate it more than the Second Amendment. Thugs, absolute thugs, will be right back critical
in jail straight ahead.
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com. In a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real Red Bull. This is a heart and brain
pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because
it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing
to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for
the formulae. And I came up with our own formula, working with some scientists and developers.
On GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill, now available at m4warsstore.com and
your purchase fives the operation.
Matt in Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of n4wars, and I
just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the n4wars. It might seem like
a simple thing, but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right
now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't
tread on me. And it's a big day glow snake, Gadsden snake. And then it's got the American
flag n4wars.com on the right arm. I mean, that's a great way just to meet like minded
people and spread the word and also exercise free speech. And the newest one is trigger
warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield
sign and then n4wars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively
at n4wars.com. Let's talk to Victor in Florida. Victor, you're calling. Go ahead.
Yes. Hi, Alex. First, I just want to mention if people just go and try the products, they
will be ordering all the time. I've ordered several of the products over and over because
it's amazing. In particular, silver bullet. As soon as I start to feel like I get a little
stick, you know, maybe like a little raspiness in my throat, I drop some silver bullet and
I'll still feel a little stick, but it won't last as long. And I just ordered the body,
the alpha power and the pollen block. Well, let me just say something, Victor. It's people
like you that then fund the whole operation because a very small percentage of people
buy products and a very small percentage of them buy a lot of the products. So thank you.
But when you mentioned the silver bullet, colloidal silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98
percent review. It is our highest reviewed product because it is from the top lab in
the country discounted high quality colloidal silver. It's not a silver bullet. It's the
closest thing you're going to find to a silver bullet. Introducing Floor Life, the new probiotic
line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife. After years of research on the human microbiome,
not all probiotics are made the same. Floor Life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery
system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics. So if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet. Floor Life
supports your body's core where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity,
the gut lining and metabolism. Did you know that over 80 percent of your immune system
is located in your gut? That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall
health. Floor Life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and
a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program. Head to InfoWarsLife.com
to pick up your bottle of Floor Life probiotics today. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex
Jones.
CNN, just like Jonathan Gruber, thinks you're all stupid and thinks you're all idiots when
they told you Obamacare is going to be free and you can keep your doctor and all the rest
of it. When they gave the questions to Hillary Clinton for the debates and then got caught
lying about it, when they got caught staging, you know, Muslim events, protesting Muslim
bombings, which Muslims don't ever do. So they had to stage it. A lot of people weren't
even Muslims. They were actors. CNN got caught doing all that. So Phil Mudd, when he's over
there saying he's going to kill the president and, you know, when they've got clapper on
saying that they're going to take the president out, they don't want anybody to be able to
respond. They want to make you watch it at the airport. They pay the airports to pump
it in. They pay the public schools in first period of many public schools to make you
watch canned CNN propaganda. So this is the globalist run, sorrow state run, force feed
media. And just as I started the show saying CNN wants to keep you from seeing what we
actually say and do, I had no idea that we have been hit with a community guideline strike
and that there was a big story out today because we don't even really follow news about us
because there's so many hundreds of articles a day usually can keep track of it, the full
on attack. And they said that we bullied David Hogg and they reference another video that
was number one that somebody else put out saying he's an actor. We simply said they're
in the drama class. They're PR people. He is a journalism student and he is an anti-gun
person in an adult role as a public figure trying to take a major civil right. And so
we have a right to talk about it. And CNN has been caught coaching people and has been
is in the middle of a huge controversy right now staging that town hall and prescripted
questions and they've been caught and the questions people kept some of the questions.
So all this is coming out. It's on infowars.com. It's on newswars.com. It's on drugsreport.com.
Florida school shooting survivors. CNN told me I need to stick to the script. And they
came out and said that the Marjorie Stoneman Douglas high school student survivor Colton
Hab is a liar. CNN has said he's a liar even though people go no, here's the questions
they gave me. Even though we put images up of the questions that say here is your question.
So they're staging this whole thing and we're saying this is scripted. They're staging town
halls. There's out of 3,000 students. They're picking four anti gunners to then have scripted
responses and to put out anti gun talking points. I mean, who is denying that? Who is
denying their reading off teleproper? Who is denying they've been given scripted questions?
Who is you can't deny that? And so what does the bullies over at CNN do?
What do they do? They say info wars is two strikes away from being banned for bullying
children, little innocent children no one's ever heard of, not public figures reading
off teleprompters. And if you criticize their speech, you're saying no shooting happened,
which we never said. And you're bullied. And oh, you can appeal it, but it's a couple lines.
And here it is here. Here is a document cam shot, please. Community guidelines status.
The community says I'm bad. Just like the old Soviet Union, somebody in the community
said that, you know, you were a capitalist, you got to get sent for 10 years, reeducation
to the gulag archipelago. And what was the video? David Hogg can't remember his lines
in TV interview, and he can't remember. And they're coaching him saying it's okay. It's
okay. That's what CNN's in the middle of a giant controversy right now. One of the biggest
stories in the country is them saying it's not a scripted down all when they admittedly
script the things. Am I bullying CNN now? CNN students told me stick to the script.
Network wrote the questions. It was shocking. Let's play the clip first of David Hogg that
they don't want you to see. Just like they're trying to block our videos that are shot over
the shoulders of reporters on iPhones, on smartphones, when they're going, oh, there
was multiple shooters. We saw them shooting and they were running around. No, I was with
Nicholas Cruz and he wasn't shooting anybody. Oh, do not put that out. No, no, no, no, no,
no, no. Just like we told you, in Vegas, the whole thing was going to fall apart and it
did. I put that back up on screen from Drudge for me because I want people to understand
what's happening. But oh, CNN makes it, oh, Alex Jones said that the smash shooting didn't
happen. And they mentioned somebody else's video that was number one that they banned.
And I said, on Tuesday, I said, watch, they banned that video. Now they're going to try
to ban everything. And here's the key. And we're going to Paul Watson. Once they have
banned your video, they can say in the video, you did all these terrible things you didn't
do. See, that's why it's key. They burn your book. And then they say, Alex Jones wrote
a novel of how much he loves Satan and how he, but then we actually read the book if
they didn't burn it, it says, I love Jesus. But see, they have to destroy my speech and
then they can misrepresent all they want and make you watch CNN and force feed it to your
kids and have it in the airports and ram it down your throat and restaurants and everywhere
because you're going to listen to Anderson Cooper and Como, he's going to tell you when
you can read WikiLeaks from him. You aren't allowed to because they're the bosses and
they run your life and they run your world. This is so huge. A next level censorship with
CNN saying everybody, let's shut info wars down. Let's all go flag it and say as a community,
we don't like it to ban it. That's the socialist globalist plan in Europe. You say that a Muslim
killed somebody. Even when it's the case, you get arrested in Germany. Police chiefs
that say 99% of the gang raping is Muslim men. They get fired. You stand up to Muslim
rape gangs. You're fired. You don't say it's the Muslims and you've got scripted anti
gun kids with their parents on TV, young adults, high schoolers, high school seniors. And I
can't say, look at this bumbling scripted interview. I guess I'll get banned for saying
that CNN states the town hall too or gave Hillary the questions. You did it all. You
did it all. You're a bunch of lying dirty scumbags and you can't stand hearing what
lying filth you are. Just like they attacked this young man, we're going to play in a moment.
He was there. Other people said they didn't want to be scripted. So they left. See how
that works? See how that works? See how that works? You see how that works? You're going
to let them win? These are real authoritarians. These people mean business. And see a lot
of the other media kind of watches him full wars, gets censored and goes, well, it'll
be less competition for us. Idiots. Idiots. They will shut you down next 100%. If everybody
doesn't rally around in full wars, this is an attack on everybody. Okay, so here is,
here is David Hogg, not being able to get his line straight. Here it is.
Because we had had a fire alarm earlier that day and that was a drill. So we thought this
was a drill too, just another one. Because we have a lot of fire alarms, a lot of fire
drills at the school. After we heard the first gunshot, we initially thought it was a drill.
That was a bad choice. Actually, that was a bad choice because the janitor, sorry. Honestly,
when I was going out, I was kind of, I was, when I was going out, I was in shock.
So most of my friends that made it out, one of them went into a bathroom in the same,
I believe in the same hallway as the shooter. One of them went into the same bathroom, I
believe, as the hallway shooter. He was in there at the same time and he was in the bathroom
and he didn't know if he was going to live. This guy is an anti-gun spokesman who is
force fed to everybody. He's a young man in a man's world. Ooh, you're not supposed to
say man. And then now at Purdue, in places they say in the English department, don't
say man, I'm sorry. I'm going to be banned for that too. And I'm not joking. These are
authoritarians. Now, when we come back with Paul Watson, we've got Colton Hab who isn't
scripted. Who isn't reading up a teleprompter. Who isn't trying to get his, his, his, his
line straight. I mean, this, this makes me so angry, ladies and gentlemen, because they're
trying to rob all of you of your speech. And you've got a guy all over television. You've
got these kids going up and telling people, burn her, burn her to Dana Lowe. She's saying,
you're a killer. So they can say, you're a killer. They can dump hot coffee on me the
left and whatever they want. They can say kill president and everything. That's okay.
And if we just say, Hey, they're using these kids to put out their gun, their anti gun
message. Oh, we got a ban you right now. CNN says ban Alex Jones, ban him, ban him, ban
him.
Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit m4slife.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable, great
tasting multivitamin formula available. Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at m4slife.com is
loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your
body absolutely needs. In the history of m4slife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products
like survival shield x2, super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery
system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula
is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products. And this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure and resecured. You're
finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral
fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead
of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is. But
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth
formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com.
What you can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the information war in 2018.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
This is an absolute maximum red alert. It's not because CNN's coming out saying ban infowars.
It's that they're openly calling to have a competing news organization shut down. It's
CNN saying kill the president. It's CNN having guessed on saying the guy that shot Scalise
wasn't a bad guy. He was standing up against the evil. I mean, the racism, the division,
the brainwashing, the Gulf War, Arab dictatorships that give a millions of dollars like Qatar
on record. I mean, this is a criminal organization. And they're calling for people to go community
strike and claim that we're bullying the students. And then they say, Oh, another video got
taken down. That was number one this week where they said that no one died or whatever.
And Jones's videos are similar. No, they're not, you liars. But once you get them taken
down, you can make up whatever crap you want. So I'm going to say this to everybody very
clear. This is America 2018. CNN on their front page and on television is calling for
another news organization in the United States to be banned. If you can say ban info wars
from YouTube, that's what they're calling for banned. They've been calling for Trump
to be banned off Twitter. And Twitter says they're considering it because they don't
want you to be able to fight back. Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand this isn't
just Oh, try to get somebody to sue me or something like that or misrepresent what
we say? This is don't play a clip of David Hogg, who's a senior and who's in the media
department and who's in the acting department. We're not saying he's an actor in that there
was no shooting. We're saying he's got scripted anti gun lines out of 3000 students. They're
force feeding these four. They just got caught staging the town hall. They got caught giving
down in Brazil the questions for Hillary. This is CNN in the WikiLeaks being run by
the Democratic Party. So they're making their move because we're kicking their butt with
the truth. And now there are major congressional talks about hearings about fake news. They're
the fake news. Unbelievable. We're going to Paul Watson in a minute. We're going to break
right now. I just want to set the table here. Here is a clip of one of the young people
and everybody's got to do this when I say go out as human intelligence and go to city
council or go to CNN events or go to these liberal churches. You're going to record
them saying the most insane stuff. You'll have white preachers saying we need to go
ahead and just kill all the white people. And they'll say we're going to go ahead and
take the cross out. This is mainline Methodist churches. You name it are like Bill and Melinda
Gates are the Christ of our time. Give money. We're going to give Bill and Melinda Gates
the offering today. This is major churches in Austin mainline churches. First churches.
I've had family go to where they get rid of the one preacher and bring in new ones and
it's like North Korean propaganda. They're making their move. And that's why I imagine
if we had 50 students go down there and say, oh, yeah, I'm going to read your question
because once you know how the scam works, you know how to get around it. And then you get
up during that live feed. They cancel it when they start going to the questions and everybody
doesn't go with the question they're given. Why be directed by these people? It's legal.
It's lawful. And look, they're going to either kill me or shut me down. They're making their
moves right now. I am honored. This is an extreme honor to be public enemy number one
after Trump. I am so, I am so blessed. This is an incredible honor. And it's an honor
to talk to you and it's an honor to work with everybody, but I can just read the tea leaves.
They're coming. And you know what? I'm coming to head on collision, baby. You want to fight,
you better believe you got one. And if we fall like the Alamo out of that will become
the greater victim. That's how it works. That's what romance is all about. That's what struggles
all about. This is the stuff history is made of. We'll be right back with Paul Watson and
the students who witnessed the censoring and the scripting at CNN, which they're desperate
to shut down and not have a discussion of.
Top scientists and researchers agree. We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well, for
starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics. And now we've added a brand new ingredient
called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include
vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your
bottle right now at infowarstore.com. From the front lines of the information war, it's
Alex Jones.
He reminded me, Rupert Murdoch came out last week and the CEO of Newscore and said, shut
down all alternative content and only force feed mainstream news. And they said, start
with info wars. They actually say, start with us. So see, Trump's got a big problem because
Rupert Murdoch was for Hillary, but now he's cozyed up to Trump. These are the very people
stabbing him with one hand while patting him on the head with the other. And I'm putting
headlines up if you're a radio listener. Rupert Murdoch pressured Facebook for changes
to help news publishers. And then he read into this and it says, shut down info wars.
You can pull up the headline CEO of Newscore calls for internet censorship plan. And then
notice Soros comes out and says, any nationalist talk, any nationalist talk, anti EU talk,
ban it from the internet. And then he went further and he said, we want drudge banned.
They use the term ban, drudge, ban, ban, ban, but drudge up. Why do they not want drudge?
Oh, it says that all the liberal media is plunging. All their ratings are dropping. The left
doesn't want Nancy Pelosi. The left doesn't want Diane Feinstein. They can't even get
endorsements or money now from their own people. Scroll down. Oh, and look, clips of people
saying that the town hall was scripted and the proof. Oh, no, we can't do that. Oh, and
they're telling Jimmy Kimmel, tone down the politics of the Oscars because all of our
ratings of tank, they're dying. And so I always explained, they're going to move to shut down
our speech and go authoritarian. But how is this bad? Most of the New York Times traffic,
it turns out, comes from drudge. He sends them more than Facebook. And how do they respond?
We want to shut Matt drudge down. You give us all our traffic. We hate you. You're a
man. Remember, Matt drudge is a Russian because he linked hundreds of times to RT and he linked
thousands of times to you. Jerks. So this is so huge. It's on infowars.com. It's a total
red alert. If they can set the precedent with the community guidelines to say criticizing
seniors in high school that are political and who have clearly been scripted in what
in the talking points, we're not saying their actors faking. We're not saying people didn't
die. But CNN is implying it, but not letting you see the video. Oh, CNN took down another
viral video that said it was all fake. And now Jones has similar ones that are also being
taken down. This is what they're doing. This is how they're shutting it all down. This
is what's happening. And you've got Rupert Murdoch and George Soros working together
saying specifically shut down access to info wars and shut down access to the drugs report.
The next step is coming and killing us and arresting us or vice versa. You understand
that, right? They don't just shut people up because they're going to leave them out there.
They know they can't shut us up. They know it's going to cause a Streisand effect. They
know we're going to just get bigger. It's underground because people aren't supposed
to see it. They're not supposed to hear it. And what are we doing? This is all totally
makes sense. Here's the clip. Florida school shooting survivor from Fox News. This is the
great evil you see. They don't want you to hear Tucker Carlson either. I know for a fact
all those people have been threatened to stop being so hardcore or they're going to be off
the air. But then Fox lost half its ratings trying that crap. So they backed off. See.
So there's major pressure to bring in censorship and people don't want to do it. You think
YouTube really just wants to ban everything and really be authoritarian? The average person
no. The average person at YouTube knows full well what I'm really saying. We're not intimidated.
Tucker responds to legal threat from Podesta lawyer. Yeah, it's just incredible. So let's
go ahead and go to this clip and I'm going to Paul. Here it is. This is Florida school
shooting survivor who CNN, by the way, has been calling a liar. Oh, but is that bullying
him? You know what CNN? You have a right. He's in the public venue. He's got the evidence.
Everybody else knows what you did. But you're allowed to say he's a liar. You got free speech.
Am I going to go to YouTube and the community guidelines and say, Oh, CNN said this young
man is a liar. I never even called hog a liar. I said his whole family's anti gun. He admittedly
is trying to intern at CNN and traveling there. He's all these different things and the kids
are all going off talking points. It's true. But even if it wasn't true, it's covered under
the First Amendment. Here it is. What did what had happened was is the four days ago
I had gotten contacted by a lady named Carrie Stevenson from CNN. She had asked me originally
to just read a speech. It was going to be at the town hall at the BB&T Center. So I
agreed. I felt like it would be the right thing to do. Be able to go speak my part as
well as open eyes to a few things that I thought that can make this situation a little better.
Yeah, that's what they do. They get you to the event. They get you to the event. Because
I've been involved with CNN many times and then it all changes. But let's continue
on to Paul from there three days ago. So the next day after that, we had gotten, I got
an email back from her and she asked for more of questions rather than a speech, which I
was solely fine with. So I wrote was less of a speech and more questions that I wanted
to ask at the town hall. The day after that, it was more of just questions. She asked for
just questions that I would like to ask. So I gave her my questions and then yesterday
at about 5.15, I made contact with her and she had asked if I just asked her one question.
So what they had actually done was wrote out a question for me because in my interview
with CNN, I talked about arming the teachers if they were willing to arm themselves in
the school to carry on campus. And they had, she had taken that of what I had briefed on
and actually wrote that question out for me. So I have that question here if you'd like
me to ask it for you. Well, but I just want to make sure I have this straight. So you
sent them along in effect essay on what you thought, but they put their own words in the
question and they weren't the same as the words you had sent in. They were the producers
words. Absolutely. They had taken what I had wrote and what I had briefed on and talked
about and they actually wrote the question for me. But not with your words. I mean, they
put their own words into your question even after they'd asked you to send questions in.
But that seems dishonest. It definitely did and that's kind of why I didn't go last night.
Originally I had thought that it was going to be more of my own question and my own say
and then it turned out to be more of just a script and she had actually said that over
the phone that I needed to stick to the script. I just read the CNN article again. There's
also a video report. You guys download that and they say that we say they're all crisis
actors and that it basically didn't happen. I am so angry because we've now reviewed the
video that's on our computer and it was, it was Owen Schreuer. He said no such thing.
Gosh, that is so evil, man. I'm so tired of them misrepresenting and then deleting it
so they can lie about it. Let's go ahead and go to Paul Watson. Paul, thank you for joining
us and putting us out. This is just amazing and it doesn't hurt me personally, Paul. It
gets to me to know that we're dealing with people this evil, Paul. This is huge.
Well, I mean, you predicted it, Alex. When you were on with Milo, you said they would
conflate wild conspiracy theories about the shooting not happening with us questioning
the public statements of this kid who's got his First Amendment right to lobby for, you
know, gun control and we've got our right to combat that. But no, you know, that's harassment.
That's bullying apparently. But this other kid who said the question given to him was
scripted, CNN can publicly shame him and call him a liar. And that's completely fine. You
know, in Russia, Alex, the government censors dissident media outlets in America, apparently
CNN thinks it's their job to do that.
We're gonna go to break. I have to sue. And I've already met with the lawyers. I'm not
a litigious person. I have to sue them all. I don't have even plugged. I've done an hour
and 20 minutes of not plugging any products, folks. We need funding. As you can see, infowarstore.com,
a lot of great specials, get in there, hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away. Security is a mindset. And fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant,
but not fearful, faketv.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life, NASA PAC technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the PAC bacon. Or warm and served. Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10-year
shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes
and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can
alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes
has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract
to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order
online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality. Our
ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from
around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. Info
Wars Life wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality
in males. Support your body and mind and take yourself
to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize your life. Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Info Wars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again. You
can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by Info
Wars Life. Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now. That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones, the cure to fake news coming to you live from Austin, Texas. And if infowars
is the cure to fake news, CNN is the disease. Michael Zimmerman who manages our YouTube accounts
just walked in and handed me another little juicy. They just hit us with another strike.
One strike away from taking down 12 years of videos on one channel over 2 billion views.
And with glee, CNN with all its fraud and all its stage debates and all its stage town halls
and all its stage questions is calling for us to be shut down saying we're saying nobody
died and of course not showing me say that. You know, that's what journalists do. If I
tell you, Hillary says let's all be nasty bitches, I can play a clip of her saying it.
Or I say Jonathan Gruber said thank God you're so dumb. Or I say Obama said if you think
you built a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else did it. He said that. So they
already don't let our subscribers get the videos. They've already got a shadow band.
I mean, the channel is a let me just give the listeners a little intolerable to Paul.
It's a feeder channel for everybody else to post it on theirs. They they have a shadow
band. We have them on video saying only people that go directly to the page and hand click
on it can see the videos and now they're starting to block those. I said I like the super deluxe
video attacking me and they didn't understand it blew up in their face. So they messed up
the video and took it down and it was viral. They put it back up, messed up on YouTube
and we have videos of them admitting this behind the scenes. Project Veritas shot. I
mean, does anybody understand this is open and shut civil rights violation criminal racketeering.
If if you get $500,000 is a gay couple because somebody wouldn't bake your cake. What happens
when I've got your executives behind the scenes talking about how they're screwing
me over and everybody else is free speech and how you want to shut me down. It's not
that I'm bad. It's not that I'm a bully. It's that the bosses want him shut down. Paul Watson.
They have congressional hearings in the in the intelligence committees and they say number
one story of the Internet's info wars. Paul Watson, Congressman Quigley, he looks at the
heads of Twitter, Facebook and Google and they go, sir, at lunch, we saw it and shut
it down. And we're bringing in AI to do it live time in the next month, sir. Well, a
couple months later, it's here, baby. It's here, baby. They're having hearings where
at lunch, they're trying to stop this man right here. You see him? Watch this on our
own. That man right there. And why? Because he's eloquent and he is smart and the girls
love him and they're scared of him. So let's go to the guy. They're so scared of that congressional
hearings about Paul. We just got another one for our video interviewing the students and
playing clips from K H O U and other stations. People saying there were multiple shooters
and that they were with Cruz when the shooting was going on. That's bombshell. We said, we
don't know what's going on, but this is newsworthy. That bullied the students, Paul talking to
the students, talking, playing clips of two students interviewing a student. Oh, and what
did snopes say? They said he was a fake actor. We hired course it turned out he was real.
See everything they say we're doing, they're doing Paul. The magnitude of this is incredible
and they're making their move. We just we are one strike away from being banned. Don't
these idiots get this is Streisand effect, baby. Go ahead, Paul. Listen, Alex, they took
down the video because of CNN's campaign to censor another media network, by the way,
for harassment and bullying. This is in the same week that CNN sent a reporter, Drew Griffin,
to the home of an old lady to harass and bully her over Russian collusion claims. Everybody
seen the clip. It was widely condemned by everybody in the media. They said it was harassment
and bullying. Now that clips obviously on YouTube somewhere on CNN's channel. Maybe
people should think about flagging that video because that actually is harassment and bullying.
Oh, but we know YouTube has one role for us and another role for people in the Facebook
that's millions of people are on sites calling for organizing for murdering the president.
Exactly. So Jimmy Kimmel can talk about tragedies and make money out of them and that's fine.
Anybody else does that. Even people who try to raise money for charities, they get shut
down. Alex, they're talking about fake news and conspiracies about tragedies and the moral
panic surrounding that. The mainstream media circulated a fake news story about this tragedy
for about 24 hours when they claimed the shooter was a member of a white supremacist group.
It was a fake news story. YouTube reacted to that by taking down a video, which is by
Tim Poole. He criticized the media for falling for that fake news story. They took down his
video. So if you take on the likes of CNN for their fake news, the conspiracies, fake
news about tragedies, they target you as well. So again, they're all on the same team. Alex,
in this article, they literally salivate over the fact. Oh, we flagged these other videos
and two more strikes and they're out. Now it's one strike, as he said. Oh yeah, I forgot.
CNN is not just telling everybody to go flag. They admit their trust because we're talking
about the young people, the young adults they have on as their PR people that go up and
basically intern for them. They're mad that we're going after basically their PR people
and just pointing out that they're PR people. We're not saying the shooting didn't happen.
This is so criminal. That's what I'm saying. CNN is a criminal organization. They're not
just fake news. They are the enemy. They are terrorists. They are they are the disease.
Alex, I mean, you don't need to like info wars to see that this is a massive concern.
Obviously, there are center right media organizations that haters. Okay, once we're gone, they're
next. Everyone needs to be concerned about this. It's not just CNN. Wall Street Journal
two weeks ago came out with an article about how they were lobbying YouTube to censor to
demote our content on the algorithm. We know YouTube's already doing that by placing CNN
and the others on top of our content. So they're already trying to push us down. But no, that's
not enough. We need to be gone off the platform, de-platformed silence just like in Russia
where the government does it. CNN does it in America. And the CEO of Newscore came out
and admitted the biggest reason for it. He said in a, quote, dysfunctional media environment,
they are going to make more money if they silence independent voices. He literally said, quote,
the potential returns for our journalism would be far higher and brazenly admitted the primary
reason is to make more money for them. Obviously, it's because we're challenging and destroying
their narrative, which is why CNN is doing it. And they're so brazen about it, Alex.
That wasn't even the only article in which they're promoting this new campaign to silence
us off the internet. There's another article as well. This is a full board lobbying effort
by CNN and everybody should be absolutely outraged over this.
And they're now bringing out the Sandy Hook folks saying that again, we're saying this
shooting didn't happen. And misrepresenting, you've always said Sandy Hook happened. We've
only had debates from both sides about it. They misrepresent that they're doing it again.
They say in the article that, oh, another video saying the shooting didn't happen was
taken down and they try to imply it's us.
No, exactly. They're conflating us challenging this student being coached on his opinions
being an activist, which he isn't fair enough. I don't care. We can address his arguments
without being completely censored. This is absolutely incredible. Every media organization
in America should be up in arms about this. We need to fight back.
This is Soviet Union level stuff.
It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 187799 Berkey
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products. They are quality. I can't
wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely. Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen
and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses
in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead
of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the lives, tales, and every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth
formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com,
what it can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Infowarslife. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural
mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you
need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support
formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep
you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to Infowarslife.com and say goodbye
to fatigue. That's Infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones. We have gotten two strikes from YouTube and CNN admits that
they did the strikes and that they are trying to file other ones to have us shut down, openly
calling for competing news organizations to be shuttered. Imagine if we started a campaign
to have CNN's cable license revoked or to have CNN's doors closed or to have CNN banned.
But so you don't have to do that because they have to pay people at airports and hotels
to watch their crap. They're reviled. They're known as fake news worldwide, fake town halls,
fake events, fake interviews, bullying old women, Como saying, you know, you're not allowed
to read WikiLeaks. Only we are. You'll go to jail if you don't. They are total dystopic
authoritarian bullies. And now in one day, two strikes, and they're salivating, as Paul
Watson pointed out, saying that one more, we're going to be shut down. They are the
ones filing it. So, Paul, this is beyond the Soviet Union. I don't even know how to have
a headline strong enough when we, I guess, post this is one of our last videos on YouTube
for the lawsuits. How do you even say CNN joins news core in call to ban competing news
agencies? I mean, you've got Rupert Murdoch. You've got his CEO, as you said, in the Wall
Street Journal. And that was the headline. Hold on to your tinfoil hat. YouTube is coming
for you. Pull that up last week. And it was the Wall Street Journal in talks with Google
saying shut Alex Jones down as the test case. This was in the Wall Street Journal. And I
came in here and just mentioned it. Like it's, oh, no big deal. There's about 300 newspapers
today saying shut me down. And then they misrepresent what I say because I'm the bad guy. See, first
you demonize the person, then people go, oh, I guess you can ban him. And then it's everybody.
Now put the headline back up. There's it is. And then that story links to the Wall Street
Journal. It says, hold on to your tinfoil hat. Alex Jones, YouTube is coming for you.
And then scroll down. Click on right there. And they say, we're going to battle state
sponsored. So Alex Jones is a Russian. No proof. Total lie. And so they said they meet
with all these executives. Scroll down is that the Wall Street Journal link. They're
right there. The Wall Street Journal. And I went and read the Wall Street Journal itself.
And it's incredible. YouTube takes aim at conspiracies and propaganda. So they just label you and
then you disappear. And then what is it? Oh, it's students saying there were multiple shooters.
Multiple news clips. And then we have one of the students on and then that's bullying your
band. Oh, you say that some of these kids are PR people for the anti gun lobby when they
admit they are. Oh, that's bullying your band. You say, why are there four kids all over
TV out of 3000? Oh, that makes too much sense. You're banned. And then they don't we don't
sense her. Oh, no, we're just doing this because Alex Jones says no shooting happened, which
I didn't say. And then in their trade publications, they don't even say that CNN says that to
their viewers. This bad man was bad to the children. And he said that you know that they
were that nothing happened. We're not going to show you him say it though. It's too evil
for you to see because he didn't really say it. And there's other kids a liar that says
that we gave him scripted questions. Don't listen to him. There's video of us doing it
many other town halls. And then in the trade publications, as Paul said, remark goes, we're
going to make millions more. I suggest we have a consortium and only maybe 100 publications
are allowed and I'm reading this. I'm advising the president that this will be the new system
we have. Well, the president's under attack by the very same censorship triangulation.
I mean, think you are witnessing 21st century book burning in live time. And the best part
is then they misrepresent what you say. They don't just shut you up. They then gag you
and then put you on trial in front of the public and the public runs up and throws coffee
on you or runs up and shoots you like that. And then it's loving like I'll walk down the
street in Austin, all the folks in the collapse of their areas of the country that they come
here and left us go boo, boo, get out of here, go, go. It's all bullying. It's all, it's
a bunch of thugs, man. And they can't believe it when I go, Hey, listen, I bet you're a
big loser. I bet you're not successful in anything. That's why you're so hateful. You
know, did you ever think you came here to get away from people like you? Oh, oh, oh,
you're upset now that I'm in your face. Yeah, you can't shut my mouth up. You piece of crap.
You want to tell me to go away? You want to tell me to shut up? But imagine they got our
kids in the school. See, that's where they're really bullying the daylights out of them,
telling them they're another gender harassing the hell out of them. Serious child abuse
trying to screw your kids up as much as you can. And you just let them Oh, don't don't
bully me. Give me social support. Make me feel like I'm inclusive. I'll do whatever
you say. Okay, the new English department says, don't say the word man. Okay, I won't
say that either. And we're taking down the Martin Luther King statue. He, he was anti
gay, which he wasn't even. Oh, okay, take him down. Because if they can say take down
Martin Luther King, take down Alice Jones, take down, they couldn't do anything. Paul,
I appreciate you coming on while I've been running. I am just this is so crazy. The levels
of lies, other great points you've been making. How do we counter strike this? Because they
got money to burn. I mean, I can get cases of civil rights action and show the racketeering
1000 times beyond the, you know, the gay cake situation, the gay wedding cake. I mean, we
are being racketeered against. This is organized crime. And we have to respond because this
is precedent setting. And as you said, the Wall Street Journal is in there with the
CEO of this core saying it's all about money. We're going to shut everybody down. And all
these so-called liberals don't get, Hey, if they can ban Alex Jones, they're going to
ban everything you dumb schmucks. Paul, go ahead.
Oh, Alex, the argument you're I see, Oh, YouTube's a private company. It can do what it wants.
No, YouTube's working with government to crush the First Amendment. That's the issue. Okay,
we need some kind of telecommunications act, Alex, to regulate these companies because
they are monopolies. If you're not on them, those platforms, you're not on anything at
this point. Google is the internet. Okay, we need need some kind of law or telecommunications
act. But that Wall Street Journal guy, Jack Nickass, he did the same thing that CNN did,
Alex. He got a bunch of infowars videos, took them directly to YouTube and say, Oh, doesn't
this one violate your policy? What about this one? They've got people whose sole job or partly
their job within these news organizations is to try and get info or censored. They've
got dedicated teams at this point. They can flash up another article, Alex, which is Senator
Warren's YouTube algorithm may be open to manipulation by bad actors. This was Senator
Mark Warner of Virginia whining about how people had negative opinions about Hillary
Clinton on YouTube. And that's why she lost the election. God forbid people were questioning
her health, Alex. I wonder which video he's referring to on that score, maybe the one
that we did that got six, seven million views. So he's calling on YouTube to barriers in
the algorithm. That's not enough just to barriers because people will find us anyway, if people
really want to find us. No, we have to be de-platformed, gone entirely off of the whole damn show.
And then if we try, and then if we try, Paul, to go to a march for the lady that got killed
by the illegal alien, there are armed communists not letting our reporters on the Capitol grounds
in front of the police.
Incredible. And YouTube, they also ban videos put out by national government, the Polish
government put out a video talking about the migrant crisis. They banned, they censored
that. They censored my video for talking about Islam. No nudity, no swearing, not even targeting
any individual, just talking about an idea.
Remember the Congress lady from Tennessee put out a very, think about, I love my family
and I love America and I'm running for reelection. They banned that. Remember? Just a wholesome
woman going, I love my family. It's like they said, the state of the union. MSNBC said,
oh, did you hear him talk about family and churches? And actually said, you don't get
that anymore. That's gone. Talk about hunchback demons. What dimension of hell did these people
crawl out of?
Introducing Floralife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by Infowars Life. After
years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same. Floralife
probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases
directly into the intestines for maximum effect. This is critical because stomach acid kills
most probiotics. So if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating
your gut health and your wallet. Floralife supports your body's core, where you need
it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did
you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why increasing
gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health. Floralife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic
for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program. Head to InfowarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of Floralife probiotics today.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Electrify your day with Secret 12. It's like lightning in a bottle. We all have days in
which we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to. Infowars Life Secret 12
is designed to naturally energize your body and mind with two great tasting and super
high quality forms of vitamin B12. Proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to
keep your body functioning at optimum levels. The reality is, it's hard to take in the
proper amount of vitamins we need each day with our modern diets. Secret 12 by Infowars
Life is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin B12 intake and support your body's
natural systems. It pairs two forms of vitamin B12 into one explosive formula. Vitamin B12
supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell formation and aiding in the body's
natural processes. But it also assists with many other functions of the body. Electrify
your mind and body and take your health to the next level. Experience the power of Secret
12 at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
The scientists at Infowars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes
for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function,
immune system and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of
the active ingredients. But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support. Try bodies today at InfowarsLife.com or call
us at 1-88-253-3139.
New from EmRick's Essentials. Fragrance free natural deodorant for your body care needs.
Drying basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat. To maintain my game,
I need all the confidence I can get. That's why I use EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant
made with organic ingredients. This deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals
to ionize odor, keeping me fresh throughout the day. While shooting hoops, the last thing
I want is sweaty armpits making my hands slippery and the ball wet. That's why I recommend
EmRick's Essentials fragrance free deodorant. Even though it's unscented, it's effective
at combating strong body odor and I don't have to worry about any unwanted allergic
reactions to my sensitive skin. Whether you're a guy or gal, the last thing you want to be
worried about is your deodorant. No petroleum based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty
free. Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance free natural deodorant available
at infoorstore.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
I didn't do this on purpose. Milo decided to hang out a few more days here in Austin
and we invited him back in studio to talk about censorship and have a serious discussion.
Milo Yiannopoulos because they started out with him in the middle of the election last
about a year and a half ago to ban him on Twitter. And then he was the precedent setting
case and then now he's been banned everywhere else and they just run around on the media
celebrating how wonderful it is to be censors. Well, we just joined us. These articles were
so chilling last week that I couldn't even believe them. I saw Paul Watson's article
about it, CEO of Newscore admits the plan to shut down all other competing news agencies
and that's setting up a consortium of the top 100 companies or so. So they'll all cover
each other and then just kill the Internet as it's known and that they were meeting with
Newscore. I was meeting with Time Warner and with Google and with a bunch and it's
y'all and I saw the article and I linked to the Wall Street Journal and it said it
all there and they said and we'll sell this as if we're cleaning up the Internet and getting
rid of the Russian agent Alex Jones. More defamation, more insane cuckoo for cocoa puffs.
Milo is here now, so boom, one strike comes in, another and then yeah. In the article,
CNN says they're doing the strikes because we're bullying children and then all we did
was say, hey, we interviewed, we showed local newscasting or multiple shooters and we interviewed
one of the other students who said the same thing and we just had nice polite interviews
but they say that, oh no, those interviews are saying that the shooting didn't happen.
So Milo, this is next level stuff we're dealing with. Paul Watson, you guys just free for
all here. What do we do about this? We need a new telecommunications act, a true open
free Internet act. Keep the Internet free act. It's the left coming in doing all of
this and they're so authoritarian and now they're putting notices up under our videos.
They started it with Russian videos saying this was state sponsored as if CNN as if global
sponsored. I mean, what do we do Milo? You have been the test subject of this. Now they're
announcing the big, giant rollout against us, congressional hearings, you name it and
it's surreal that what they accuse you of isn't even true but they won't show the video.
Notice because it's so evil. Yes. Oh my God, Jones said nothing happened at the thing and
I didn't say that. In fact, we even predicted, I mean, this is next level. You and I spoke
about the subject of Florida on air together two days ago and the way that we phrase things
was remarkably cautious. We were disciplined and careful and light touch and the majority
of the big claims in the interview came from a student at the school. So here's what's
happening. You know, the big media and the tech companies respond with a warning shot
which is a strike on a YouTube account. It's the first sign that they have already decided
that they don't want you around questioning things. And here's the really big thing that
will happen to you after the ban comes, which you don't think about beforehand. It removes
your right of reply. It removes your ability to respond to smears. The first thing that
happens. It's obvious is it removes your reach. Everybody knows that you lose YouTube account.
The audience there is gone. But perhaps the more important thing long term is that people
can then lie about you on YouTube and you cannot respond because your audiences these
days are fragmented not by media company. You don't have New York Times readers and
Washington Post readers. You have platform faithful audiences. So there are people who
almost who get almost everything from YouTube. There are people who get almost everything
from newspaper websites. There are people who get almost everything from Twitter. And
if somebody makes an allegation against you on YouTube and you can't respond to it on
YouTube, the YouTube audience, which may be a colossal slice of your platform of your
people will never get to hear your response. They'll never get to hear your side of the
story.
It's bad now.
And that's what they do. You could teach a college course on this deception off the
CNN articles because Paul, that's exactly what they're doing. They say that we're saying
nothing happened. And then they talk about somebody else's video that got removed and
they say, so Jones's videos, we've complained and we're almost there. We've almost got him
shut down. So I mean, it's criminal, Paul, that they are racketeering against the First
Amendment.
And while the New York Times floated a trial balloon on this back in November, the headline
is YouTube's rapid response partisans game the news of tragedy, which is similar to the
Cuomo thing on CNN, where he says, you know, only we can read the WikiLeaks. And in this
article, they conflate me with this actual racist who responded to the Sutherland spring
shooting by saying it's either a Muslim or a black guy before anyone knew anything about
it.
Then they mentioned me. And they get into this whole question about, oh, how do you manage
to get your tweets to the top of the search engine, like you mentioned with the whole
congressional hearing? How do you manage to reach so many people on YouTube? I told them,
there's no strategy. It's having an argument. It's resonating with people. It's not being
boring. And they can't compete with that, Alex. There was an MTV news video. MTV news
it used to be at least a big social justice warrior channel. They did an interview with
Tim Kaine a couple of weeks ago. It has 200 views. I mean, they can't resonate with anyone.
So they have to show Facebook smarter than Google Facebook. You had videos back during
the election with 37 million 25. I mean, you have like 30 videos or 40 videos. I was looking
going, that's 37 million. That's 29 million. And they were growing. Maybe like 300 billion
now. Once they get that, they never stop. We're talking in weeks. They were getting
same thing happened to me. They just all gone. But what Facebook does is instead of banning
you, Facebook turns down the volume on you. They have an algorithm that can deemphasize
your posts so that you don't appear in the news feed. So somebody could be subscribed
to somebody could comment on your page every day. They could love you and Facebook knows
they love you because they know how active they are on your page, but they still never
see any of your stuff in the news feed because Facebook hasn't outright banned you. It's just
turned the volume down and see YouTube executives brag. Oh, we shadow banned Jones. We got to
go to his actual page to find it. And then these idiots never don't even know we've done
it. No, we know you've done it. We see the numbers. They're also in the news. Like we're
not humans going. Our strategy will increase profits and shut down all competition. They'll
be no more internet freedom by 2020. That's our corporate plan. We just met with the top
15 CEOs. I mean, this was in the Wall Street Journal last week, Paul. And then the left
goes, ah, they're going to ban Alex King. He's still got a tinfoil hat on though. No
one's coming for you. Oh, we're going to ban you, you son of a bitch. I mean, these are
frosty idiots, Paul. And of course, it's like, yeah, apparently they're going to ban you.
Oh, by the way, we're banning you. Yeah. I mean, the Wall Street Journal piece, this
Jack Nickass guy in his article, he openly said he'd compiled a list of quote fringe
and divisive content and then presented it to you to mean imagine that being your job
to collect things which are offensive. By the way, that's authoritarianism. The New
York Times has a liaison with YouTube that tries to, our major job is blocking all shows.
But, but so, wait, think about this though. It's just like the Soviet Union. That's their
job. They make lists of who to disappear. So, because you know, that's what's coming
next. Every major, they're going to kill us. Every, I mean, you know, the, they know we're
not going to shut up. They want to just cut us down to size before they really come after
us. I think they can strangle us digitally. They can strangle us commercially. They can
strangle us in a million different ways. They don't even have to go through the ugly business
of doing it in real life. I think that they are perfectly able to do it with turning down
the volume. They've never been able to shut us down because the audience gets it and gets
around it. I understand they've really de-platformed you and then they all celebrate it and everything
and you act like you're dead, which isn't true. That's why you're here. But I'm telling
you, audience, I've been so upset. I haven't plugged in two hours. I need support. I need
support big time. I need you to go to infowarstore.com. Great supplements, great books, video, t-shirts,
things you need, super high quality toothpaste. I've been so busy I haven't come up with
the new specials. So all those specials, it's going to end up selling out everything. I
didn't want to sell out of everything. I was going to go back to regular price until more
came in, but I'm just going to keep this up till it sells out, which looks like it'll
be a few days. Super blue fluoride free toothpaste with little silver and iodine. We've got the
brain force. We've got 50% off, Icarin, the liver and kidney cleanse. We've got the cell
force, which is an incredible deal. It's going to be called DNA force plus as soon as we
re-launch it. It's way better than the old DNA force. So infowarstore.com, infowarslive.com
or AAA2533139. But whatever you do, thank the local stations that are picking up the
show. Understand it isn't about info wars. The reason I've dropped everything and gone
to this when I had a huge show lined up is because this is a big deal, folks. Newscore
and CNN have announced together that they're moving to completely end everybody on the
internet and only make it a corporate platform. Do you understand that? They are making their
move. They first turned Facebook, Google, YouTube, all this into these huge utilities,
and then they're rolling them out. Paul, this is an emergency situation, and they're going
to move against the president. They're so pissed his approval ratings are up. They're
so pissed the country's coming back. This is the civil war, Paul. What do we do?
Well, we need to lobby for some kind of new telecommunications act. As I've said, I mean,
people within the Trump administration have seemed sympathetic to that at different points.
So that's what we want. The thing about YouTube, Alex, is it takes hard work to build up a
YouTube audience, a subscriber base, and you have to have a personality to be successful
on YouTube. People who work in the mainstream media, Alex, don't have personalities. Okay,
it takes talent. It takes having a message that resonates with people. They're boring.
They're lazy. No one wants to watch them, which is why they're so resentful and jealous,
which is why they're deliberately targeting YouTube and trying to shut us down. It's not
just that overall all agendas, it's also personal. They hate us because they're boring and no
one wants to listen to them.
That's right. They're self-righteous thug scum who just absolutely have been caught in every
form of corruption and lying and manipulation imaginably. It's like Tucker Carlson said last
week, how much would you have to be paid to watch CNN? As it turns out, they paid to make
everyone watch it in the hotels and the airports. Paul, great job. Thank you so much. More with
Milo and Steve Pachennick coming up. Stay with us.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to stay a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I cannot
say it any clearer. It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine. You cannot beat that for children
and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad, the
colloidal silver and iodine as well. Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139. Your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. That's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Realize your potential and take your body back with super-male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality. Our ultimate
non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around
the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super-male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. Infowarslife
wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize
your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super-male vitality today at Infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You're listening to an Infowars.com frontline report. It's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we've got Dr. Steve Pacenek joining us coming up in the next segment.
Milo Yiannopoulos riding shotgun with us. I am extremely angry right now. I am not
putting on an act on air, okay? I started sweating when I saw this news today, not because
of my own personal company or operation. You read about the Soviet Union or Nazi Germany
and you read books and history books. It's upsetting. You feel for those people in those
times. History is the ultimate soap opera, but it's real. We're living history. News
core last week said they're meeting with top executives and had met with the top executives
to have the Internet freedom end. They said, end it. They said, shut down all the other
sites where no one can get to it on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, any of these platforms.
Taking the U out of YouTube. And then seeing an income and they said, we're going to do
it by making examples of Infowars. And then I saw the, the left saw planning this. It
was all these articles. Yay, YouTube's coming for you, Alex Jones. You're going to be banned.
And then they make it up that I said nobody got shot at the thing. And then they CNN starts
flagging and admittedly flagging to shut us down. That's racketeering. That is, that is
a thousand times not baking a cake for the gay couple, Milo.
What I think you have to see this in the context of a wider war between legacy media and the
institutional bodies in America more generally, and upstarts like you, me, Breitbart, we had
extraordinary unprecedented power to reach and affect and influence people in the last
election. The media recognized perhaps two years too late, but they finally have got
the message this year that their stranglehold over popular opinion, their ability to shape
and direct popular.
It's already over.
Is gone.
They can try to hurt us, but don't they get it? They are hated.
Absolutely. But that doesn't mean they're not still powerful. And they're powerful in
ways that you don't always immediately think of. It's not just what they broadcast every
day. It's not just the fact that they still have large audiences. Even if those audiences
are skeptical about what they say, they still have power because they still have money and
connections. And with those money connections, they can go down kicking, screaming and desperately
begging for their lives and damaging like a dog that's about to die. That's most dangerous
just before death. They can go down kicking, screaming, scratching, biting and yelping
and damage everybody who they think damaged them on the way down on the way to dusty death.
They will do as much. They will inflict as much misery and pain and decapitate as many
of the people they consider responsible for this as they possibly can.
I cannot believe that they're this. They're in the Wall Street Journal saying we met with
all the tech execs. We're gonna in the Internet as you know it. And they're saying we're gonna
ban everybody and we're gonna start with Alex Jones. It's what's weird is they used to lie
about all this stuff and they still lie about it. When it comes to censorship, they're like
we had our world government summit and now instead of like denying it was always they're
like we're gonna have world government. We're gonna end the family and you know just.
It's the complacency born of arrogance. It's complacency, arrogance and elitism. It's a
supreme overconfidence that I think you often see in ruling regimes teetering on the brink
of collapse who don't necessarily know it.
That is it though. And we're not just saying this. It's from the NFL to the Oscars to
the Olympics. It's all in free fall. It's cardiac arrest.
They haven't quite worked out that they're dead yet. Some of them have and they get furious
and they're biting, kicking, scratching and punching. CNN knows. CNN knows it's in trouble.
But some of these other big companies don't realize they're in trouble. The establishment
in general doesn't think it's in trouble. Individual companies will see their own viewers
turn against them. They'll see the financials. They'll see the ratings fall. They'll see
all the signs of trouble. But the establishment in general, as a uber blob of the media company.
Yeah, the media is just a throwaway twerp. I don't care if the news divisions hated intensify
race war operations. That's in the WikiLeaks. There's a top professor advising Hillary. It's
actually a British professor. That's why they say, we need to go to cultural war and
intensify operations. We're losing control of them. They must be kept in the dark and
desperate. These are close, in the dark and desperate. Get that, span that mile, old fellow.
They're a very good British accent. Actually, you're good at that. I want him off the air
immediately. The Lordship. Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life. Cell Force focuses
on mitochondria efficiency and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production
by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria
don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists
agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive
oxygen species. The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available
on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force
from Info Wars Life. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Asking through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
We are back live. We are broadcasting worldwide, ladies and gentlemen. And if the globalists
want to go under my skin, they've done it. Milo's here, riding shotguns. Steve Pachanin
will give us his analysis on a bunch of big topics that are critical, that are so huge.
They can't stand the type of information you're about to hear. They don't want you to know
the inside baseball, the angles, what's going on in the White House, all of it, okay? They
don't like the fact that the hostage rescue team called up and told me what went on with
the gun deal and the Muslims using it as a cutout to get the weapons, to try to embarrass
Trump and it was all part of the Saudi Civil War. Directly from the FBI. Okay, that's what
happened. They don't like that. They cannot stand that. They can't stand the fact that
I can get information from the top generals just like that. Boom. Here's this information
for you, Alex. And it's always accurate. Never BS. Because real information, truth is viral.
That's what's powerful. And they're crapping their britches right now. But it's not about
us. The brazen Wall Street Journal. And I covered this last week, but I'm kind of punch
drunk to it. Like, we're taking over the entire internet with Google and we're going to shut
down everybody starting with Alex Jones. And Paul Ross is like, you ought to make a bigger
deal out of this. And then they're like, Jones, YouTube's coming for you. And then now CNN
says we're actively trying to get Alex Jones banned for bullying children. And then the
video is students that are young adults saying they saw multiple shooters. And some of it's
often the news, it's clips. And then we're saying, we don't know what happened. We're
in, I think a shooting could happen. But if somebody doesn't think, think something happened
when you got lied about babies and incubators and get us in Iraq war, it's your right to
sit there and to say that and do that. So I know I'm ranting, but I've tried to explain
this feeling. It's like coming home to your apartment because I haven't had any robberies
since I live the house or apartment. And all your stuff's been torn through. And on top
of it, whoever was in your house up at the weekend, people break in, you know, just stay
in there. I guess cause they know you're out of town or something. And then somebody pisses
on your rug for no reason, right at a big Lebowski. You're like, wow, you know, and
you pissed on my floor. You didn't just steal my computer and TV and, you know, eat stuff
out of the refrigerator. You, you, you, you're pissed on the floor. And, you know, that's
what CNN's like. Fake news, fake town halls, fake script interviews. They've all been caught
going harassing old ladies at their houses, saying they're Russian agents. All this crap
to try to bully the American Cuomo going, you're not allowed to look at WikiLeaks. You'll be
arrested if you do. I am allowed to. I mean, the condescension of a narcissistic middle
patient like that. I mean, a drooling knuckle dragging 75 IQ thug, a thug, like a stupid
brother, but no, I'm serious, Milo. So I, I feel raped and I don't feel like I'm a victim.
I'm pissed. I want to unscrew somebody's head politically. I mean, this is a real group
of flaming authoritarians that brag and celebrate that they banned you off Twitter and have
financially tried to ruin you and they celebrate everywhere, pissing on you constantly. And
people say, why are that Milo guy? It's fashionable to tear him down because I'll be Milo next
week. Like I said, Wednesday, and now I am. And all these other idiot, libertarian and
conservative hosts that don't get this morons. Why did I give Rush Limbaugh $300,000 when
they were about to take a show off because I could get advertising at half price and
support the first amendment. Win, win, have my cake, eat it too. And I made a bunch of
money for our operation. That's right. I went and propped up Rush Limbaugh and a bunch of
other people did because if they could shut him down, they're going to shut us down, people.
You hang together, you hang separate. Remember Benjamin Franklin? He's on the $100 bill.
He launched the whole country. You know who he is? Damn, these people don't have any instincts,
Milo. None. This, I'm not mad for me. We've already been demonetized. They already censor
us on YouTube. It's that they're nakedly openly saying, we're censors and we're going
to shut everybody down. And then the public, the dumb liberals go, oh, good, shut him down.
You're going to be shut down. You drooling morons. I'm sorry. Milo, you go ahead and
then I'm going to poach in it. It's just this, this is, this is like, like watching someone
rape your grandmother. I mean, they are raping the country. And the great part is they're
all collapsing. Everyone hates them, but they won't get out of our lives. And then now seeing
it in is in two articles saying, we're actively campaigning to have info or shut down. I mean,
total racketeering $500,000 to somebody wouldn't bake the gay wedding cake. What do I get?
What do you get with the organized criminals up there? I'm sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead. Then
I'm going to poach in it. I'm out of control. I just did the raping Milo and you have been
raped and raped and raped by these damn people.
This is what frustrates me about libertarians and conservatives and even people who otherwise
agree with it, with free speech and are passionate about free speech. They think that standing
up for somebody else when they're being censored is the same as agreeing with everything they
say. We're not like the liberals. We're not just going to club together for whatever. We're
individualists. We're on the right. Nobody's asking you to agree with everything Alex says
or everything I say. What we're asking is that you come out loudly in defense of free
speech and against censorship because if you stand by and do nothing when my Twitter account
is taken away and you stand by and do nothing when Alex's YouTube account is taken away,
what on God's earth makes you think that when they've taken the targets at one end they're
not going to go and attack the other end next? What on earth makes you think that you're
not next?
I've seen it time and again. I've seen it with Breitbart, with Sleeping Giants. That campaign
that's had 4,000 advertisers remove their ads from Breitbart.com without a peep, without
so much as a word from the rest of conservative media. Because conservative media, they're
worried, oh, what about us next? They've gone for Breitbart. We'll just stay quiet. You've
got the Federalists. You've got the Daily Caller. What are they doing to protect themselves,
to ensure-
I tell you what they're going to do. If they're successful, they're really going to have their
downfall. And Trump has to know this. Everybody's going to get the info to him because the very
same people that are censoring him and trying to block him and trying to de-platform him
on Twitter, they have serious discussions about that. They are openly sneaking up to
him, Rupert Murdoch, in this perfect storm. Rupert Murdoch and his CEO, did you read it
or what they said? They're going to shut everybody down. They're working with Google.
They've gone for the tough fighters. They've gone for the biggest targets first because
they know everybody else will crumble immediately afterwards. They've gone for you, me, and Breitbart
because we were the three biggest targets. If they can beat the three of us, the rest
will crumble without a fight because the rest of them have no stomach and no appetite for
the fight.
I agree. I'm not going to just be patronizing. I've gotten so upset with this and I can't
remove all the stuff that's going on behind the scenes because obviously you talk about
the stuff, then it actually amplifies what they're doing and the operations are running.
They are offering people large sums of money to say lies. The problem is that people aren't
even taking the money. Then the money goes up, up, up. The crap that I've learned they're
wanting them to say is unbelievable. That's what they want to shut me down and then they're
going to bring out all the big BS.
We discussed this at dinner the other night. We talked about one particular story, but
there are lots of them about both of us. It's the cost of doing business and being high-profile
and rising quickly. You're going to have disgruntled employees. But when you have a media that's
complicit in spreading lies by offering money and inducements to encouragement and inducement
and incentive-
It's criminal.
...to tell wacky stories that are lies that are entirely defamatory. This is a press complicit
in slandering their commercial opposition. There are laws against that already, but-
Tortious interferences should be more.
It's flat-out racketeering.
Yes, it is. What the journalistic outlets are attempting to do is circumvent the law by
inducing people to lie about their commercial enemies with checkbook journalism.
They're also trying to say credit card companies delist the NRA. People go, well, I'm not the
NRA. I'm just a small gun shop. They're getting the lead elephant again. God Almighty, don't
you people get it? They go in the bar. They pick the biggest six-shooter guy. If they can
take him out, everybody else runs.
Exactly.
And that's why-
It's an attack on you, folks. And that's why, you know why they haven't shut us down?
Our listeners. And I'm just kissing their ass. It's true. When they call up and thank
me, thank me, you're what changed America. And it began to take the country back. You
standing with us and not buying all their attacks, Megyn Kelly, all the crap, you standing
with us is the only reason we're here. And while we're trying to support other people
that are under attack, because we understand we're in a war, and there are rules how to
win wars. The enemy is a bunch of dirty, corrupt oppressors and occupiers. That's why they
claim we're all Russians, because they're the globalists. They're the outside power
coming in here to try to run America and trying to break our will. And we're the Americans.
We're coming back 1776, part two. It's a real war. We're never giving in. We're going to
win. We're unstoppable because this audience, no matter what happens, they kill me. You
are the power.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes
and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can
alert you that something is wrong. Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes
has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm
telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular and system healthy. Order your two-month supply today by calling
866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. Or order online, hbextract.com. Heart and body extract
is 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away. Security is a mindset. And fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant,
but not fearful. Faketv.com.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all in only two cents per gallon.
Get the original and most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And
now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click
1-877-99 Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareStore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock
when you sign up for auto-ship because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders of about $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month. Just go to InfoWareStore.com. Select your favorite
product or products. Click on auto-ship and choose how often you want us to send you
another order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win. And with the new auto-ship feature
at InfoWareStore.com, this is a sure win. 10% off on auto-ship. Win, win, win at InfoWareStore.com.
Free shipping on orders of about $50. And all out of stock items are never out of stock
when you sign up for auto-ship. InfoWareStore.com is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing. This is pollen block. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed
that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress
symptoms like running nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began
studying the effects in public trials, in their public trials. Now we are introducing
the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign
of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to
help alleviate seasonal distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting
pollen block available now at InfoWareStore.com or by calling toll free. Triple A 253-3139.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
We just got hit with another strike but they hit David's private, his own account. Total
gentlemen, David Knight. The ally from the InfoWare's News Center in Austin, Texas, I'm
Alex Jones and that's why we have our own video feeds, why we have our own audio feeds
but behind the scenes they're trying to go to all of our big server companies including
overseas and trying to shut those down. I'm not complaining okay and it's smart not to
get into all their tactics for a lot of reasons. I'm just telling you this is a war people
and these are authoritarians and David Knight just got hit and he's a total gentleman. I
mean if you want the total gentleman smart show that's David.
Just like PragerU, I mean Dennis Prager is... Oh they're trying to shut him down. He's
the most mild-mannered, gentle, nicely whatever guy, he's not like us, he doesn't scream and
yell and have whatever. We're both out there on the edges of culture fighting like in the
front lines. Dennis Prager is establishment of the establishment right? But dead on. Dead
on but he has this PragerU thing, Prager University on YouTube with these very nicely
produced, very well polished. Let's show some of it. Absolutely gentle, well judged, completely
factual little videos that blow people's minds. Stuff about like... He'll show like if you
don't have 2.2 people born for the parents society collapses every time or he'll show...
I mean it's powerful. I'll phrase this stuff about the wage gap, big important subjects
and YouTube has gone off to him because he's effective and because he reaches a lot of
people with these videos relentlessly and they did that thing on YouTube you know where
they take away your sharing options and take away comments, they take away all the virality
of the video. So technically you can still post the video, technically you can still
have the video online but it is hobbled, it is kneecapped, it cannot go anywhere. Which
is the authoritarian tactic they know to press. It's like the Nazis in Soviet, you always
start slow and get people to adapt to the oppression so that when you finally march
down in a ditch to blow your head off, you go along with it.
Four times out of the five steps the populace is like okay, by that time you know.
Alright I want to go to just genius points, we're going to get into why Dr. Pachennick
was originally joining us, worried about them using sex operatives to try to compromise
the president. We'll also get into just the epic media wars going on right now. Again,
I don't want to be gone so journalism here, this is happening, okay. The announcement
has been made by News Corp. that they met with all the tech heads, this was last week
this was announced and that they are going to go ahead and in the free internet as we
know it, not letting anyone have their own website that's shared on any of the big platforms.
And they're already targeting all the leftists that aren't political, that have popular channels
or taking them away or they're making them go under YouTube control. This is a mafia
takeover. And it's so historical, it's so big, I mean this is history book stuff in
how naked and brazen it is and how they even go, we're going to use Alex Jones as a test
case and we're going to ban him and the left's celebrating everywhere, Alex will soon be
banned everywhere and then they see it in, he said the children didn't die, which we
didn't say, he said, he bullied children, he said see it in as fake town halls which
they do. And now let's go to Steve Pacinic, best selling author, researcher, ran a lot
of different government operations in the State Department with the CIA and others.
He's been involved in regime change of authoritarian governments. What do you make of this doc
and what do you make of the point we've gotten to, does this signify they're getting their
butt kicked and they're just acting confident when they're in the Wall Street Journal in
the New York Times, we're just going to ban everybody and the free internet is not going
to be free anymore. Used to, they would try something like that and not be real honest
about it. Now it's some very bizarre psychology, but you are a psychiatrist and a lot of other
things, Dr. Pacinic, so can you tell us what in the hell is going on here? I mean, it looks
like a classical authoritarianism and death rose to me, but my God, if the public doesn't
get upset because we're just kind of used to the censorship that's been going on, but
those were five foot waves. These are 200 foot tsunamis coming in right now. I mean,
this is just epic level. What do we do? First of all, let me put some things in perspective
and I'm glad that Milo is there and talked about this. There is a concept within the
British army called for long hope. Do you know what I'm speaking about Milo? For long
hope means that in Britain, they used to use the Scottish officers of the Scottish men
to go and man the embankments and be the first ones to attack the enemy. In other words,
they were sacrificial lambs in many ways while the British eventually came in. In some ways,
Alex Jones, the persona in the show has always been for long hope.
Yeah, no, we're the people that hit the bar bar.
Right. That's what I'm saying. Right. And what I'm trying to explain, and I want you
to calm down a little bit for selfish reasons only because this is a long war. This didn't
just start yesterday. This didn't just start a couple of weeks ago.
Oh, Hillary was planning it. They admit this whole plan was about four years ago was hatched.
Remember, since 9 11, I've been demonetized, delegitimized. I mean, I've been through this
so many times that right now Google demonetizes me, shuts me off the air. Now the question
is, what do you want to do about it? If you act as the victim, which is what's happening
now with all due respect, then they keep on coming after you. But when you realize that
Fox or Murdoch is 88 years old and he has a problem, he can't run his institution, his
sons were indicted in England. And guess who took over Fox? It was Disney. Bob Iger, I
happened to know from Disney took over Fox for a $52 billion acquisition. So what does
that mean? That means Fox and its subsidiaries, including National Geographic, are in terrible,
terrible shape. National Geographic can no longer make videos about animals. They're
making videos about what fighters in Afghanistan, other things. What I'm getting at is you change
the position from being for long hope to proactive and that what you require is a kind of a strike,
a strike among all of us, 11 million of us who will not go to Disney, who will not buy
the Disney products, who will not buy anything to do with Disney. And what happens is at
the same time, you call a strike on the cables, particularly the cable systems that are putting
in CNN. You see, CNN isn't funded by audience. It's funded by a very tricky system. That
means that any cable system that's put in, including your own or somebody else's or
Fox and CNN, they all compile together and they get a percentage of that. If in fact,
your audience or I-
That's right. It's like a TV tax. It's a cable tax that you have to pay for CNN. People
don't understand that. It's like BBC. You are paying for this slath.
Not the only respect in which it's like the BBC, but it's interesting how these organizations
that cannot survive on advertisers or the goodwill of their viewers have to have these
stitch-ups in the background to stay active. Milo's exactly right. So what happens is you
refuse to pay the tax, you cut the wires on the cables and many of your listeners understand
what I'm calling about. You short the cable system so that there is no particular audience
and no cash flow. Once you hit the cash flows of Disney or the cable tax and those, now
you become very effective and then you begin to understand two things.
The one, Google has a very strong relationship with the United States government. This will
be something I will reveal to you, but it's not a great city. Good is just quiet. Google
and the National Geospatial Agency, which is an intelligence organization, have a very
close relationship. The NGA is basically an institution that was recently created in order
to monitor all internet activities, not just on the first level or the second or what we
call the three-dimension of the internet. The three-dimension of the internet means
the life space of it. No, I don't get it. We got to go to break, Dr. Puccini. And by
the way, when I see the whole victim thing is, we are being victimized. These are evil
people. We have to raise the alarm and then the solution. Are you happy washing your hands
with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with detergents? Are you happy paying
high prices? Find your happiness with pure soap. These all-natural, earth-friendly pure
soaps are the very best you've ever used. Buy in bulk. Get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply
or get items individually and still save big. You're getting soap products twice as good
as what you're using now. Earth-friendly and natural soaps. Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com. Why not put your money up the drain for a change? See them
at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog. Cal Bend Soap Company can save
you thousands of dollars and give you good, old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-STAR-SOAP.COM or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super-blue, fluoride-free products. InfoWarsLife brings
you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed to deliver
a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty, fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble
gum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super-blue, fluoride-free mouthwash
and super-charge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride, our
super-blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds
that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits. Super-blue, fluoride-free
mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super-blue, fluoride-free
products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWarsStore.com.
That's InfoWarsStore.com.
Over a year in the making, produced by one of the top organic firms in the country, that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours just on the files
I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this. This is the ultimate
immune system boost for this time of year, anytime of the year. But immune wall is incredible
and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70, $80. It's a great deal at
$39. Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more. It is concentrated. You
need to go read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality
mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate. A citrus peel blend. I mean, this is the next
level. It's now available, ladies and gentlemen. Immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Beta-glucan, olive leaf, and more. Immune wall, InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLive.com,
or triple-A, 2533139.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality InfoWars Biome Defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality, known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your Biome Defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at InfoWarsLive.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health, and support the InfoWars.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
One reason I've been successful is I cover a lot of news, but I also parrot key talking
points that I come up with myself, not Russia or wherever, and they hate that, and they
know that my talking points end up all over the place, and our guest talking points end
up everywhere. So I'm just letting the audience know the value of InfoWars and why I have
been yelling basically for three and a half hours or three hours since I've been on air
because we have to understand we're dealing with hardcore scum, and if these companies
would work with Communist China and others to suppress information, they'll do anything,
and they'd rather work with the Foritarians than they'd rather be here in America. I mean,
take the Murdochs, worth hundreds of billions of dollars, most of their money's offshore,
and they own Fox, try to control conservatism, that doesn't work, and so like Dr. Pachennick
said, you've got the carriage carrying rights and all the rest of it, where these channels
that no one watches, the CNNs and stuff, are force fed, you are paying for this trash,
and so you should let table companies know. In fact, I do it myself, I told my wife, I
said, stop buying from Amazon, he's trying to shut us down to the Washington Post, and
she goes, but you sell stuff on Amazon, and my wife's smart, but I said sweetheart, I
said sweetheart, there's all these Chinese counterfeits of our stuff and people, if
I don't have a platform on Amazon, I can't then control what's sold there, but I go,
I don't promote it, I have a legal toehold there, so that I can then make sure that Amazon
doesn't hurt me with the enemies, okay, and so-
Well, that's how you're obliged to behave under monopoly conditions. If Amazon has
a virtual monopoly, or indeed a de facto real actual monopoly, which is rapidly a
acquiring in not just online sales, but now with Whole Foods and whatever, offline sales
in certain product categories, you're obliged to do business with the enemy if you don't
want to be annihilated by counterfeiters and by rival products. You have no option but
to have a presence on Amazon, whose parent company's publication is dedicated to your
destruction. That's what happens at a monopolies, that's why we have monopoly laws.
Exactly, and Dr. Petitnick, I understand, you're a smart, analytical guy. I'm upset,
but I'm letting the dog off the leash. It's not fake what I'm doing, but I'm letting
myself be upset because this is a raping, and again, I knew it was coming, it's the
whole way they do it, they say, Jones is saying no kids died and it's all completely fake,
and I didn't say that. If people want to say it, that's their right to say it. Then they
say, that's why we're taking them down, and then CNN says they're filing the complaints
and are trying to take us down, and then they're over there trying to take David Knight's,
his own YouTube channel away, and the guy's a complete gentleman, they're a bunch of criminal,
frickin' lion scum, man, and I'm sick of their crap.
It's the same playbook, they took me off Twitter because they said that I had led a racist mob
against Leslie Jones. I didn't send a single racist tweet, I didn't say a single thing.
You said this movie's gonna flop.
This movie's gonna flop, and I defended her in the movie, and then online I made a couple
of jokes about the fact that she's ugly, which she is. I never said anything remotely racist.
Other people on the Internet did that, but they said that I was responsible, that I'd
done it, and that I'd led a mob without providing a single piece of evidence, which is exactly
what they do to you when they say you're Russia-controlled, you said this about Florida, they don't provide
any evidence, any clips because they can't because you didn't. What they do is they associate
you with-
Half my family fought the damn Russians during the Cold War. It's a load of crap.
Yeah, they associate you with genuinely unsavory characters, which is why Richard Spencer's
name appears next to mine in every news report, because they want to suggest that I'm the
same as him, and they do the same things with you.
Yeah, because you guys, you don't really look the same, but I think people are so dumb.
Oh, they do that all the time. Dr. Pachennick, you ran psychological operations at the State
Department, you're a famous guy. I mean, like I said, one time we were gonna have a guy
from the right stuff on Chuck Yeager, and people are asking, who's Chuck Yeager? I mean,
it's like, people don't know who famous people are, they've done stuff for our country, and
you know, interesting how much, saying, Stu Pachennick's Chuck Yeager is not that cool,
but he's done a lot of cool stuff. But I mean, does it not freak you out to see that we're
like becoming, this is like Soviet Union crap, and these people are like, it's like, it's
a clear and present danger. Trump needs to move against them. He needs to break up these
monopolies. Instead, he's got Rupert Murdoch, reportedly, has basically crawled up his rear
end.
All right, well, let's go back to a couple of years. We were talking about the end of
the newspapers for a long time. This was for years on coming. We saw the New York Times
streaming, we saw the Fox News streaming, we saw CNN.
Yeah, but they're trying to take us down with them.
I understand. The key that has to be turned around is number one, you've got to pick the
points which are vulnerable. As I just told you, Disney took over Fox. That was a big
mistake for Murdoch because Murdoch needed the money. He can't run it anymore. His son,
who was compromised in England, is now the head of it. But by Beiger and understands,
if you refuse to buy Disney products, refuse to go to the Disney movies, refuse to go to
the Disney channel, the children don't listen to Disney, and all of this counterpunching
occurs very specifically. In war, you always have to find the center of gravity. The center
of gravity right now is Disney, which is highly vulnerable. The reason I know it's
vulnerable because ESPN went into the toilet. I know Bob Beiger very well. Tom Clancy and
I had problems with him. We know he is not the brightest guy in the world. We know he's
desperate, and we know Disney is spinning out of control.
So you look at Disney, and you taste thought to tell your audience, don't buy the Disney
products. Then we shift over to the cable news system and the cable tax. And then form
your audience that you no longer want to be in the cable business. So what are people
doing? They're literally cutting the cables to say, we're not watching this anymore. And
if you have 10...
And everything else is plunging. The NFL, the Oscars, they're now saying, oh, don't be
political. But they, exactly. So here's what I'm saying. Here's what I want the audience
to understand. This isn't about info wars. They admit we've been chosen as the test case.
They're going to try to block everybody now from a local florist to a rock band, to a
hip hop group, to a preacher, to an author, you know, a former spy chief like yourself,
stuff like that. I mean, this is a total culture takeover of the internet. And no one even
recognizes it because they've got the left to think, oh, we're going to take out Milo
and Alex Jones and Matt Drudge. And no, they think we're so stupid. They write battle plans
in the Wall Street Journal, how they're going to take everything over. And they put on screen.
I'm a former KKK leader on CNN. I protest the KKK. This is the level of their crap. And
they don't want me to be able to respond. So all the reason I'm freaking out is it's
this huge brazen announcement and they're doing it. And they've already put these strikes.
They're taking our channels down. I guess as we, as we speak, I just want people to
know this is the most serious yet. They've been testing the perch for a long time. This
is the main assault, Dr. Pachennick. And people have to know they're coming after everything.
This is outrageous, Dr.
The key to this is also look, you pull back and you've got to calm down a little bit.
What they want from you is exactly the response that you're giving them. They want you to
get so upset that they're getting joy and delight from something that really has no
meaning whatsoever in terms of the real bottom dollar.
They're already dead. They've already fallen. They're already a joke. They're trying to
pull us into the crypt with them.
Well, that's exactly it. You have a very viable product line. Your liquidity is going up.
You're going out to incorporate and have a worldwide dissemination of news. Let me assure
you, there are people within the system that will not allow you to go under. As simple
as that, you have been in a very effective outlet for many of us within the government
or whatever you want to call it. That has been fighting the alternative deep state.
You will not go under. I can assure you for the same reason that Google is tied in, hip
and neck, to the National Geospatial Agency. They cannot get away from that in the same
way that Bezos is tied in, which is CIA with hundreds of millions of dollars of contracts.
Bezos knows that. Amazon can fall very quickly. That's what the issue becomes. They're afraid
because they're vulnerable.
You're not part of the entourage. As Milo said, you and I and he, we're not part of
any of us. We have been the black swan for over 12 to 17 years, but you've survived.
Me and him will not survive. Fox News will not survive because Roger Ailes left. I knew
Roger when we worked together. In short, what's happening is you have to allow the animals
to die and let them scream as they're screaming as you're building up your network all over
the world.
That's what Milo said is that they're a dying animal. We'll be right back and get Milo's
take on that.
The Full Wars Wipe is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found an extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing. This
is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress, and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally
with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill,
a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's
beyond that.
And frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but
it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae, and I came
up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers. Non-GMO made right
here in America 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which
is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones
in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase
fuzz the operation.
Introducing Fluorolife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by infowarslife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same. Fluorolife
probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases
directly into the intestines for maximum effect. This is critical because stomach acid kills
most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating
your gut health and your wallet. Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need
it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did
you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why. Increasing
gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health. Fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion
probiotic for everyday maintenance care, and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced
gut restoration program. Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics
today. That's infowarslife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of InfoWars, and
I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic,
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars. It might seem
like a simple thing, but they're particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up
right now are absolutely amazing. Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread
on Me, but said it says Won't Tread on Me, and it's a big Deglo snake, Gadsden snake,
and then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm. I mean, that's a great way
just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech. And
the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt. Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol
of a trigger with a yield sign in the infowars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the
mind available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
I'm going to find me a reckless woman, raise her blades and die, Skinner. I'm gonna steal
me a silver stallion. But before I find a reckless woman, I got to steal me a silver
stallion. You know, the thing is, I'll tell you a little secret here, and I'll go back
to Pachennic in a year because I'm ranting. I thought about not doing the show 10 years
ago because I wasn't trying to expand. I just wanted to be a talk show host that exposed
globalism and thought other people would stand up and other smart people would take action,
which has happened. And then they just mess with me so hard and try to destroy me. I said,
well, I'm going to get really big in their face. And now I could never quit because they
wouldn't just let me go into abstention or you. They're going to just lie and lie and
never stop. I don't know how they found so many petty people who have a hard on specifically
for America, for free market, and for just being decent and telling the truth. I mean,
I don't know. What's wrong with them, Milo?
There's something weird about every major CNN host. I don't know where they grow these
people, but it just, I just get that sort of like, I get the ick. You know, when you
just, you're like, when you're dating and somebody does something really disgusting
and suddenly you can never see them sexually again. Or when you see somebody on television
and they just make you shudder and cringe and you get that sort of flash of disgust and
fear and horror.
Yeah. Why doesn't Brian Stelter know and he, he, he releases these photos. There's a bunch
of, I found that for, there's new ones to type in Brian Stelter. Let me just, there's
one where he doesn't type it. He looks like it, the clown. I mean, he doesn't know that
that is like, I am a full-born maniac, the dancing clown and there's, and there's clowns
in the popcorn down here. And you look at it. You're on the balloon. The thing is, he
releases these photos himself. This is official photos. He looks like that.
On purpose.
Seriously, Dr. Pachennick, you're a psychiatrist, but you can, you know somebody when they've
got that lunatic, nars, whatever the face is, it's like a, I mean, if I saw a star and
they're like, I'd be like, get my firearm. I mean, you know, it's like, I'm a total
saint of that. Brian Stelter, I'm Brian Stelter.
Stop it.
CNN likes you.
Stop it. Well, that's the thing. That smile is, I'm not really showing you this, but
that's what I really want.
What I really do, Stelter, son of a bitch. Sorry.
Rank your three spookiest CNN hosts. Who's number one?
Stelter.
Cooper.
Three.
Como, just cause he's a knuckle dragon, fuck. I love to see you.
Not a bad, not a bad list. Don't, don't, don't let me, I'm going to go back to, as a psychiatrist,
that look on Stelter's face that he does everywhere says, I'm invincible. I'm in a lunatic power
trip. I mean, I know, I'm not supposed to, we have the, what's the rule that goes back
to goldwater? I'm supposed to diagnose somebody from afar, but looking at Stelter, what do
you make of him?
His behavior?
He's not relevant. I mean, people who are dangerous, he's not relevant. He looks like
a serial killer. Yeah, you can put his face on a horror movie package.
It's all due respect. I've had a whole ward of serial killers. They're usually pretty
quiet.
I know, I'm being sarcastic.
He doesn't say anything.
He's not helping people up.
I don't know. Sometimes.
Again, the Stony, the Sandy Hook and this Parkland, they're all false facts. And what
you're looking at is the nonsense of the vestiges of the press trying to be relevant
as well as the FBI and a, and a crooked, what you're really looking at is this ghost dance
go on then.
Well, the ghost dance goes on as long as the collusion between the state and the federal
and the local individuals who want money is going to continue. And I don't think that's
going to be very long because what's happening in effect is that they've focused away. The
entire news spectrum has focused away from the real issues and pending war in the Middle
States. I've got an internal disruption in the White House where someone may be leaving,
like McMaster, go to Fort Benning. There may be a problem of John Kelly leaving. So you've
got all this distraction, intentional or unintentional going on, but you are becoming more and more
relevant.
So as Milo, let me ask you this very question. When would a Milo have come onto an Alex Jones
show 17 years ago? Think of how much progress has been made.
Now I know you're being positive. I'm just saying, without the audience,
I'm talking about such a paradigm shift in this country that a certain individual is
bright as Milo with his own background, with a British background, and Paul Watson can
come on an American show and articulate very clearly what we Americans want in the heart
land. You're not talking about Harvard. You're not talking about Berkeley. Yeah, right. You're
talking about Texas and Austin. Now you can go around and that's what we call the heath
of phrenics, it's a phrenic, but they are not the teachers.
That's what I'm asking. Looking at that face filter always makes, I've noticed lunatics
like who are delusional, like they make that face. I know some crazy people and they make
that face.
They walk around like that constantly. We have a name for it. It's like, you know what?
That's not even the bad ones, guys. Get going, Dr. Milo, you host for a minute. I gotta go
find the right photo. Go ahead. Go ahead. I'll be back in two minutes.
We will be putting no more. Dr. Pritchett, I want to get into sex operatives in the
president. Start telling us about that. Fine. Go ahead, Dr.
What did he say Milo? I'm sorry.
Sex operatives and the president. He'd like your view on that.
I don't think there are many sex operatives in the president. The president had a hiss.
It's an easy way, isn't it, to get at Trump by spreading around stories of his dalliances
because it's so eminently believable. I know, but it's so irrelevant, Milo, as you would
know.
Well, none of his fans care. Would a single person who voted for Donald Trump give us stuff
that he'd been in the Beverly Hills Hotel with a model? No, they'd say, go Donald.
That's exactly it. That's his person of life. We're not interested. What we are interested
is, number one, why is there an effective infrastructure deal? Number two, what are
you going to do about the fact that DB is going to be indicted and we don't need a war
in the Middle East and Iran has already taken over Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, and Syria, and we're
going to have a two-front war, which we have to decide very quickly as McMasters being
thrown out of the White House and John Kelly may be thrown out of the White House. So those
are the things, Milo, that we really have to think about quickly because the mainstream
media doesn't give a damn they don't understand it. You understand it, Milo. You come from
a background where you understand it. You come from a country that's been attacked.
This country has never had the hardships that England had to endure. Not only before World
War II, the World War I, World War II, you lost over 3 million of your men in the first
90 days of World War I. Americans have no concept what that means. And if it's true,
17 kids died and I doubt that. How do you compare that with 69,000 kids who are dying
on heroin every day? We are having thousands dying on heroin. How do you compare that with
the fact that...
Are there 70-plus veterans that commit suicide? I think mass shootings happen. They misrepresent
what I say. I know they do the fake baby incubator stuff, so those go things going.
All I know is they're de-platforming us saying, I said that, not my guess, and doing it. And
that is very dangerous to free speech.
Alex, you can incriminate me because I went to the Harvard Supervisor, so Paul Train,
the Harvard psychiatrist who did that phony profile, Adam Lanza, and they admitted it was
phony. The guy trained behind me at Harvard. And that area, Mass Mandel, is gone. And Yale
Medical School is in trouble. They were the same ones who said that Trump was crazy. And
we warned them. If you continue, you're going to get lawsuits. So in effect, what you're
doing, step back a little bit. Milo understands that I want you to... You're much more effective
when we attack specific targets. Right now, the specific target is the White House. It's
in turmoil. We don't see it.
Well, let's come back and talk about that and get your take and Milo's take. Because
it was Roger Stone said six months ago, McMaster's in trouble and all this other stuff. So he's
been dead on about that. You talk about the turmoil from your information. I mean, how
do you think Trump's doing? Or what's your word on them? We'll come back and get the
Chenix take on that.
It seems to be a state of perpetual crisis in there, doesn't it? It's sort of united
only by the transcendent iron will of one man who is singularly responsible for the
train's wheels keeping on turning. But everything else around him sees...
The Trumpian juggernaut.
Right, indeed. Otherwise, it seems to be a state of sort of perpetual fear, crisis,
and paralysis. But, I mean, I come from the... I come from the... Stop it.
I'm Brian Seltter. I'm Brian Seltter. I see it in the corner.
I come from the point of view that the less the government does, the better. So a White
House which doesn't get us into any more wars and doesn't pass any new legislations,
all right by me.
Where do you think the winder goes on here? As long as it's back?
Do you really want to wind up other...
Yes, so that when somebody's... Actually, I can't say that because we go out to radio
stations, but I just think you could be wound up at the same time as getting... Never mind.
All right, we're going to go to break out briefly. They're trying to shut us down. We're
under total attack. We've got great supplements. I never hear about the new specials this week.
So we've got all the 50% off, basically, all the top selling products. It's about to
happen in volwarstore.com. If you find us, we can continue. If not, Brian Seltter will
win.
Buy lots of products. Brian Seltter is going to have his way with you.
I don't know what will.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida. Victor, you're calling? Go ahead.
Yes, by Alex first. I just want to mention, if people just go and try the products, they
will be ordering all the time. I've ordered several of the products over and over because
it's amazing. In particular, silver bullet, as soon as I start to feel like I get a little
sick, maybe a little raspiness in my throat, I drop some silver bullet. I'll still feel
a little sick, but it won't last as long. I just ordered the body, the alpha power and
the pollen block.
Well, let me just say something, Victor. It's people like you that then fund the whole operation
because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage of
them buy a lot of the products. So thank you. But when you mention the silver bullet, colloidal
silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98% review. It is our highest reviewed product
because it is from the top lab in the country. Discounted high quality colloidal silver.
It's not a silver bullet, but it's the closest thing you're going to find to a silver bullet.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com, but instead
of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is. But
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this ladies and gentlemen is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula
out there and it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com, what it can do
for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support. You are funding
the Information War in 2018.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Just before you take the pills, you put this on and drift away into the eternal sleep.
You know, I know a lot of you on Facebook, you know, there was almost a military coup
against Obama and they killed a lot of people that were looking into it. This country's
in a lot of deep crap. So we sit here and we see all this going on and I just hope
the public, while we joke around, I do it too. Audience can smell when I joke around,
but you know, I'm going to go crazy if I don't joke around because this is hardcore crap
and Dr. Pachennick, I really appreciate you coming on with us. I am worried too about
Trump and sex operatives because you know, red-button American, his wife's beautiful,
wonderful. Obviously, she's quite the, let's just say if she was a car, she's not street
legal. So the point is, the point is, the point is, is that they're trying to destroy
our great president and you're right, there's a bunch of weasels in the henhouse there and
we just hope Papa Wolf can deal with them. But seriously, what's the intel on Trump
right now and the sex operative stuff? Because I am worried about that, you know.
What he's worried about is, my look correctly said, nobody cares whether he had sex or
is having sex. That's not even relevant to his president.
It better be. I'm sorry, go ahead.
The only good thing Bill Clinton ever did was with that cigar. I mean, you're going
to be president.
Stop, stop. I apologize. It's a Christian show. Go ahead. Dr. Pachennick, sorry.
With all due respect, I think the real issue right now is, there's a lot of pressure going
on internally, as Milo said, and that is McMaster will probably have to leave and hopefully
they'll bring him into Fort Bragg or make his active duty command status enhanced or
allow him to go somewhere else. At the same time, what we cannot afford, and that's a
serious consideration, and that is John Kelly leaving. We cannot afford to have a military
general.
You were right. That was a sophisticated sign up against Kelly that I was buying into when
you straighten me out. It turns out he's been really good.
He has been phenomenal, and it wasn't something I tried to sell. It was something I was just
trying to sell.
No, no, I make mistakes. When I'm wrong, I'm going to admit it. It turns out Kelly, because
I'm not used to having access to the White House, so I don't get involved in all the
fights when they have the access, and this is so much intramural BS that goes on there.
Well, what happens is, the person who has to go, and I've said it from day one, and
I've said two things, and this is why your show is more important than you realize. It's
very prescient.
Number one, the person who has to go from day one, I said, is the Orthodox Jew, Jared
Kushner.
And you said he's on the Chinese payroll, and now Mueller's saying, oh, not Russia,
China, which is off his mandate, but you called it a year and a half ago.
Right. And I said that he has to go because he has a criminal offense against him. He
knows he's received two loans from Bank Lummi in Israel and a major Israeli insurance company
plus he's on the ropes for 1.9 billion with the Chinese. The Chinese just threw out the
company and bang, and they took it over directly and sure. This is a criminal who's in the
White House who has been incompetent, duplicitous, and totally dysfunctional. At the same time,
we've had the civilian military conflict, which is unnecessary. He cannot have a security
clearance. We have a man who's literally absorbed all of the petty fights and continues to stay
in there, John Kelly, simply because he serves our country. And so it is with General Nims,
and so it is with other generals.
We will try to put in some other people, like Vodal or Pompeo, whose director of the CIA
was number one at West Point, number one at Harvard Law. And we need this in the White
House. Otherwise, we cannot exist on a second-by-second as it is.
And it is true that McMaster, we've confirmed this. We broke it and it came out later. He
just gets drunk and just shoots his mouth off like he's got a 70 IQ or something. So
I'm sorry.
On a list, you're correct. But from the day one, we had a problem with him, but we knew
we had to move him out because of dereliction of duty. What we were waiting for was the
temperance, the amount of time that was required to have Kelly stabilize the White House, and
at the same time see what happened to Porter and Landasty, plus that was...
Fill your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Infowars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal
helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your
muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you
can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by Infowars
Life. Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfowarsLife.com.
On the front lines of the Information War is Alex Jones.
Well I tell you, Metallica knows how to say it, out of my way. Satan, get behind me. See
it in. Behind me.
You're repeating yourself.
Milo, you've been a real champ sitting here while I freak out. I can't handle it anymore.
This is the best seat in the house. I get to see it first hand. I get up close and personal.
I don't have to watch it on TV. You kidding?
Well reading this CNN thing, they say that I say no one died and that I bullied children.
And these are, meanwhile, hand-picked, anti-gun zealots in the acting class. All this stuff.
Spewing this, and then they're in a political world, and then they misrepresent what I've
said, don't show it, and then are banning us on YouTube. Infowars is two strikes away
from being banned from YouTube. Well they just did two more. So I guess we're going
to get the word in one channel with billions and billions and billions of views, and all
that work, and all those archives, and all those interviews, gone, and hat the conservatives
out there like, good, stop taking over the whole Internet. Alex will be more room for
us not having no idea the shark has just took a bite out of me. Now it's going to come
and eat them.
The two mistakes that conservatives are making, one is that if they take you out, there'll
be more space for them. What they don't realize is that's literally not how an attention
economy works. It's not how any economy works. You make the market bigger by being the leader
and you're a huge, and there's still plenty of space to do.
Elvis made rock and roll bigger. Led Zeppelin made rock and roll bigger, not smaller.
Exactly. It's not like you're the-
Rock and Roll's dying because the music industry's killing it because the CIA decided to kill
it.
You're not the only thing in town. It's not like you're the only thing on television and
there's no room for anybody else. There are 100, 200 million Americans out there who don't
have anything quite right to listen to because they either don't know about you yet or you're
not to their taste or whatever. But there is a gigantic market for regular high quality
conservative programming. If they're more successful, you are, the more opportunities
there are for a Breitbart TV, for a Daily Caller TV, all of this comes with increased
success at any of the people in the movement. They make the same mistake about you as they
do about me. Take them out and maybe I'll get my shot. No. The stronger we are, the more
likelihood that the-
Exactly. And they don't get that it's a non-zero-sum game.
Exactly. And the other thing that they don't understand is, as you say, and as we discussed
earlier in the show, they believe that there's a sort of cutoff point, that there's a dotted
line beyond which they can throw people to the wolves because, well, the leftists sort
of write about them. They are a bit crazy. They are a bit edgy. They do go over the top.
They don't have bow ties and nice manners and they don't shop to their dinner parties.
So we'll let them go as a stop to the left, as a cost of doing business, because we don't
really like them anyway because they're more popular than we are. And then the left will
stop at a certain point. The left will not stop at a certain point. The left will come
for you next and you will be the ones that, you know, next it will be Breitbart, then
it will be whatever, whatever. And then all the way down the bottom of the food chain,
the unread, unloved, but establishment-friendly, weekly standard and national review, they'll
go last. And the left will be licking their lips while they take them. And all because
these people didn't.
They'll be on their knees with no one else to help them.
And you do not have to believe or agree with any of what we say. You just have to have
a brain and realize that free speech is an absolute. You either stick up for it or you
don't. And as soon as your values are compromised and you allow people who believe most of the
same stuff you do and who are effective at spreading those messages to a different audience
from yours. If you allow people who are allies, whether you like to call them allies or not,
to glue our allies in the service and the defense of freedom to fall, you will fall
next.
And that's common sense historically as well. But, I mean, take this. Dr. Pachennick ran
the camp, David Accord, the only good Middle East peace still ever. He ran overthrows of
governments. I mean, he gets called into federal court for, you know, serious stuff he's been
involved in. So when he starts saying, this is fake, that's fake. I mean, look, they said
that they were throwing babies out of incubators. It's made up. The point is, is that Norat stood
down on 9-11. I mean, we all know this, the 28 pages proves everything we said. The point
is, is that Trump reportedly straight shooting, trying to end all that. But he's got all these
agencies under him trying to run Bay of Pigs operations to embarrassing. I mean, it's a
nightmare situation trying to clean this country up. And we've kind of pushed the globalist
out into the light to admit who they are now. And so that's a great positive. So I agree
with Pachennick that, that we are moving into positive waters compared to where we were.
But still, when you know the anatomy of the fraud, and you know, these people are scum.
It's like, you talk about the gross thing a girlfriend does, or your case, a boyfriend
or something, and then it's just something clicks and builds up and you're dumb. This
is like 10 trillion times that. I, I get triggering now as I get older, I get more OCD. I didn't
used to be, I can't look at Brian Skelton's. I can't, I don't watch these Kepler shows
and tackles every night. And I don't watch these shows and tackles. I can't do it. Don't
you know Homeland's all about you? And they admit it. And I don't give a damn about, hey,
X-Files episodes about you. I don't watch it. I mean, because I'm sick of looking at
this ugly head. The point is that, but if you think I'm sick of looking at me, man, I'm
really sick of these people. I want them out of my life.
You should watch the X-Files. It's a very flattering portrayal. He ends up being a good
guy. That's what I heard.
Look, he's, he's handsome. He's wealthy. Scully's got kind of a thing for him and he's proven
right in the end. I think Chris Carter's got your back on that.
No, Chris Carter says he's a listener and says I'm not a racist. He's snowy. He has
a lot of courage. I'm not talking about myself. I'm saying the bizarreness of this huge war
to misrepresent what we are. And then I can't even have a platform to respond. Like you
said, is, is cultural rape of the truth? And then I wonder, what's the end game? Cause
I know I'm not that important. They actually thought I was weak. That's what they thought
Trump was weak. And that's why Hillary was like, Oh, actually give Trump the coverage.
Cause I'll beat him easier and it backfired. They thought like, Oh, look, Trump likes Jones.
That gave him Bonafides. They didn't even, they don't, but the Chenix, right. They don't
know what they're doing. It doesn't make it any less scary that you've got Cuomo going,
I'm allowed to read WikiLeaks at CNN. You'll be arrested. He doesn't even know how insane
he sounds. So what I'm saying is they're in power. They've got the money. They are crazy.
They are in F, but what do we do? Dr. Pachinic, what do we do?
I mean, in defense of the CIA and wrecked rock and roll, remember Julius Copeland was in
police and that was the son of the deputy director.
I know the CIA helped launch rock and roll and then use, and then that was seen as, as
to empowering. So they went with hip hop in the nineties. I've been with people that have
been in the meetings. I know you were involved in some of that. You want to talk about class
of, let's talk about government control of music. Go ahead and say something right now.
Right now, while you're talking, general Kelly is going to make a decision within seconds
of minutes of this show. Either he's going to allow Jared Kushner to stay in or he's
going to throw him out. My bet is he's going to throw him out. Once Jared Kushner goes,
we have another sequence of turmoil, but more importantly, if you look at the Google and
let your people show it, the vulnerability of Google is huge. As I said to you, so was
Fox when Disney took it over. What you have are vulnerable enemies trying to take you
over because they can't defend themselves.
No, no, no, I know they're coming after us cause we're kicking their ass up and down
the street.
They don't have the capability now. Google is literally has problems with its cloud,
the Gmail, with everything internally. If you just say to anonymous, come on in and
help us out and attack Google. Watch what happens.
All right, then I'll say it. I'm not perfect, but we're under attack and whatever happens
to us is fine, but I want anonymous to attack every, all the globalist. I want CNN, anonymous
attack, legally lawful, of course, go after these anti free speech monsters and dogs of
war peacefully and lovingly, non-violently anonymous. Help me. Help me. I'm weak. I told
you that you're not taking over. We've lost him. Ladies and gentlemen, Alex Jones has been
retired to a padded room.
Alex, thanks for just something very simple. The amount of energy that you have not only
in one show, but in shows that you've done for 17 continuous years. I want to see anybody
on CNN collectively have that kind of energy that you exude in seven years.
Well, you're nice, but they're scripted vampires. Let's fit. Dr. Pichett, you're awesome. Come
back with us on the Sunday show, Monday show. You're wonderful. We'll come back and finish
up with Milo, but the very positive transmission. Thank you, CNN. Thank you, CNN, from Russia.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life, NASA PAC technology. Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve. Lifesaving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year
shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified
water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. Four
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com. We're called 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653, goberkey.com. Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away. Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant,
but not fearful. Faketv.com.
Electrify your day with Secret 12. It's like lightning in a bottle. We all have days in
which we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to. InfoWars Live Secret
12 is designed to naturally energize your body and mind with two great tasting and super
high quality forms of vitamin B12. Proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to
keep your body functioning at optimum levels. The reality is, it's hard to take in the proper
amount of vitamins we need each day with our modern diets. Secret 12 by InfoWars Live is
an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin B12 intake and support your body's natural
systems. It pairs two forms of vitamin B12 into one explosive formula. Vitamin B12 supports
healthy energy levels through red blood cell formation and aiding in the body's natural
processes, but it also assists with many other functions of the body. Electrify your mind
and body and take your health to the next level. Experience the power of Secret 12 at
InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through
the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout. Head
on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We're back live, ladies and gentlemen, broadcasting worldwide. I was just listening to some of
the clips of Trumpet CPAC. I was going to be playing these today. I was going to be
all this amazing news to cover and Milo's here. Perfect plans. And then, yeah, the best
laid plans of mice and men often go astray. And then it's CNN. CNN, we're trying to get
Alex Jones banned on YouTube. He says no kids died in this video. And then the videos banned
and I didn't say that. It's, it's, it's, it's, do you think I'm over? See, I made a big deal
about when you got banned on Twitter. They're like, oh, big deal. Screw that guy, that flamboyant
son of a bitch. You know, what the hell man? They just banned him for saying he didn't like
the Ghostbusters movie. That is super un-American. That is dangerous as hell. Excuse me.
Well, it's, it's an example of the tech companies and media companies linking up and coordinating
in full force to take out the people they consider the most dangerous to them. So Twitter,
which has notoriously opaque policies will selectively enforce. And the left says they
own gay people. So you're a good looking, smart, gay, libertarian type guy. And they
were threatened when you were getting your average video, 10 million views. So they've
been trying to destroy him, which makes you a hero. Some of my listeners are super conservative
and I get I'm conservative, but I understand I empathize and I'm not like a Pharisee. Okay.
And so, but, but I mean, you getting back down, you, you were patient zero for the destruction
of free space, man. If people don't support you, they're idiots.
Well, thank you. But, you know, what these technology companies will do is apply their
own rules selectively, only to punish conservatives. And then the media can use something Twitter
said about you, like we banned him for targeted harassment to then accuse you of being a harasser.
Well, no evidence was ever provided that you harassed anybody. It was just that Twitter
banned you and gave a reason. And CNN says I said no kids died, which is horsemaner.
Well, that's an extra layer. That's an extra step. The extra step, you know, social networks
will enforce some bizarre, ill-defined rule and ever after you have been branded a harasser.
And again, and the member journalism where they show what you said, a quote, no quote,
no video, no video. There's a secret video that has disappeared and he said it and he's
gone. The video is not there anymore and you can't see it and we're not showing it to you.
But trust us what it said, you know, no. And there's a thing. I should be able to say that
if I wanted to. There's courts and lawsuits. But I didn't. I don't think that. Even if
you'd said it, who cares? The person who has to stand up for that, the person who has to
justify that, the person who will bear the responsibility for that, the consequences
of that speech is you. And now they've got families, I'm told. We've got the clips weighing
and going, we're second zones. How dare him say kids didn't die in Florida. But I can't
respond. I'm not allowed to talk about it. It's bullying. This is what's going to happen.
You know, we're talking about, you know, platform segregated audiences versus in the old days
where people would just get the New York Times and all the news would come from the New York
Times. These days, you have an audience that's segregated by platform. People who prefer to
get their news from specific places online. If and then if they start lying about you
on YouTube, your YouTube audience will never hear the correction. They will never.
That's why folks have to come to Info Wars and it's crazy. When we're under the most
attack is when I don't, when I don't plug. When we have the biggest events, the biggest
audiences is when I don't. I'm an idiot. I just need everybody to, we've got products.
I need you to go there and commit it. The first amendment and buy products at m4store.com.
InfoWarsLife.com. It's not a sales tag to keep saying last day of the sale. I've been
so busy trying to launch the TV satellites, all the stuff we're doing, trying to hire
the new crew and hire extra people and launch more shows and develop new broadcast and talk
to radio and TV stations that I haven't come up with a new special on the toothpaste on
the Ickerman on the cell force on the brain force. We're talking 53% off on cell force.
We're talking 50% off on the fluoride free toothpaste with iodine and close silver fortified.
Those, those recent, what I do is I do big sales, but then when something's about to
sell out, it's not coming in for a few months. I'll leave it back at full price and make
some money. We need to find the operation. I get so busy that I don't. A lot of this,
these sales will go until Monday, but some of them have to end because it's about to
sell out. So when I tell you this stuff, it's not a tactic. Oh, the sales been extended
extended extended. I haven't been been so busy. I haven't gone and looked at inventory
and what we've got and what's come in. We've got two new products that have been in for
a month. I am so busy. I have not even cut ads for them because I have a true lust for
information in the news instead of the plugging in the products, which I do have a lust for
high quality products. So you can see that info or store.com. I need you to go there.
I need you to buy the products. You've been doing it. I love you. I appreciate you. I'm
not complaining. I'm just saying I'm like a dog and a fight. Dogs like to fight and
I've got ears bit off and eyeball hanging out. I love it. I'm just chomping and biting
everything, but you know what? I need a blood transfusion. We're all roll over and maybe
that's the good roll over eyes point this guy and I'm in Valhalla. Uh, you know, so
I'm just saying you guys, so you all get it. So just you flood me with money. I will did
all my stress at defeating them and the lawsuits and the harassment and the black op teams
and the PIs and all of which by the way is all enjoyable. It's kind of fun for me. It's
like a video game. You do that and you just go, George Soros, you're blocked. Alex Jones
physically isn't protected and spiritually is under attack, but at least when it comes
to temporal finances, the free market still has some voice and Trump shoe. So I need you
to play your race of spades info or store.com info or store.com. You the enemy is openly
saying they want to ban us. The enemy is already demonetized as they've already cut our YouTube
videos down from, you know, the average video, 300,000 of the average video, 30,000 literally,
but it doesn't matter because and here's some of my big frustrations tomorrow. We continue
on to Hagman's awesome. He's just stay with us, but I need you to get into a band coming
up. I've got to say this though. I don't like giving out. I'm so truthful that I give out
the intel and when Paul pointed out, we were beating everybody. They ran that headline
everywhere and they said, Oh, it's true. They are beating us. And that's what and I've given
out so many secrets that their corporate people haven't even figured out, but I want to tell
the audience what's going on. But then I noticed that I think they're as smart as I am or
smarter, but they're actually not that smart, Mila. And that's why I don't want to actually
sit there and tell people some of the stuff and where we're winning and what's going on
and what we figured out because then they figure it out and they go target it.
I've been through the exactly the same thing. It's a real struggle because you you're saying
to your audience, look, we are on attack on so many fronts. It is so they are making it
so expensive and complicated for us to just exist. But once you, you know, you give specifics
about what some of the, you know, specifics about some of the attacks, other people can
replicate them. Other people can join in on the assault. You know, it's like Breitbart
never mentioned the sleeping giants attack because they didn't want to draw more attention
to it and have more people or whatever, which was smart. Unfortunately, it seems to be working
anyway. And they've got like 4,000 advertisers to withdraw from Breitbart. I keep bringing
that example up because it's the best one I know and one people will have heard of.
You and I in our respective organizations in our careers are under assault on like 50
fronts at once all the time. And it's a it's designed to wear you down. It's a it's a war
of attrition designed to exhaust exactly at our listeners and emotionally if they just
flood us with prayers and support and finances, it, it, it literally people are resort literally
it literally just, instead, I don't want to be worrying about money. I need to be attacking
the enemy at the main guns. Speaking of the devil, you, which is money, you, you, you
got your new book coming out. They have, they are vitriolically trying to celebrate your
destruction and people ask, why is that, you know, okay, fine. He's a good guy, but whatever
good Lord, you know, we're all going to go to hell that devil Milo on the point is you
are a guy that has courage. And you know what? I'm not saying you're silly and ignorant
like the quote from full metal jacket, Joker silly and ignorant, but he's got guts and
guts is enough. You're not silly and ignorant. You're a smart guy, but you're effective. They
fear you. People need to go to dangerous.com preorder the new book. And we'll talk about
that when we come back with Doug Hagman, who's a total angel and who's awesome and so smart
and lets me run over to the fourth hour. He's been preparing for for days to cover. So he'll
be joining us straight ahead. Stay with us. It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter
is the one you need. Period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more. Right. And
does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original most trusted name in gravity,
water filtration, big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using
code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or big Berkey water filters.com. That's 1-877-99
B-E-R-K-E-Y. The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
Pretty guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Top scientists and researchers agree. We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well for
starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics. And now we've added a brand new ingredient
called Black Pepper Fruit Extract that gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include
Vitamin B12 and Neurological Tonic and Cognitive Enhancers that will allow you to flip the
switch and supercharge your state of mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure
your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot
say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it. You cannot eat that for children
and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with
colloidal silver and iodide as well. InfoWarsLife.com or triple-A2533139. And your purchase of the
products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes
for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function,
immune system and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains
one to five percent of active ingredients. But our turmeric root extract contains over
ninety-five percent of the active ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Buy bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big Brother. Mainstream media. Government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well,
so does he. Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
You know, we have a lot of great hosts that come and contribute to InfoWars, but Doug
Hagman is one of my favorites. I've been listening to him for ten years on coast to
coast for longer, twelve, fourteen years and then he has his own great show and just the
production and everything. But I hear a lot of the stuff he talked about and I didn't
disbelieve him. It's just I've learned. I love people that really have sources and it's
not BS. And he's got such incredible sources and he's a real trooper because I asked him
to come to the show once a week and have the time I take it over. But I have talked to
Doug and I've had a bunch of family stuff going on because of the behind the scenes
stuff they're doing. I'm not complaining. It's just unbelievable. I want to develop
him doing a nighttime show. We've talked to you about doing a show, but Doug is just
amazing, such a humble guy as well. And he's here with us now and I wanted to pick his
brain supposed to be hosting the whole hour about the intel we're getting and the attempt
to kill the president last week. We got from high level sources and these are real sources
and just put in this sledgehammer of and I didn't see it. You don't see the attack when
you're not involved in it. The Intel's rolling in ABC News, CBS News, NBC News, Kepler and
Comedy Central. They're saying we said nobody died at the shooting and they're saying I
attacked children and then they don't show a clip. So they're not just trying to ban
us off YouTube and CIA Anderson Cooper proposed Kepler clip in a moment. They're making their
move and then it all clicks and I get embarrassed because I'm supposed to be on top of stuff.
But yeah, you get tomorrow's news today a lot of times here, but sometimes we are the
news after we get run over. They have announced with News Corp and with Time Warner, they're
taking internet over, they're ending free speech in the next year. Everyone's site will
be not allowed on any major platforms, period. And they haven't and they're saying info wars
is the, I saw the Wall Street Journal a week ago, I didn't believe it. We can have it go.
And now CNN is saying we're filing complaints to ban info wars. They bullied children and
said no one died and then they won't show the video or the quote. And now that it's
all flooding in, they're shutting our channels down right now. And it's all over the news
that I said no kids died and they won't show the clip because it didn't happen. I mean,
this is quantum leap fake news, Milo. This is quantum level and it's another level from
what they've been trying over the last couple of months.
So exactly. So I appreciate you staying late and I apologize five times to Doug Hagman
for running over. He's a champion. Doug, I'm just, I'm not being a victim here. I'm shocked
by the level of the brazenness because they go in the Wall Street Journal. We've met,
we've decided to start with info wars, the takeover of the internet where only big corporations
can be seen. We're going to say they're all Russians and we'll make billions more. And
then a week later, it begins and it's all based on law. I mean, I've read history books
about the Soviet Union, the Nazis and stuff. They were child's play, but they're being
rejected. No one's buying into it. It's just so epic. Doug, what do you say to this, my
friend?
Well, Alex, thanks and Milo, big fan. You know, it was something that as I listened
to you and I'm hearing what you're saying, I thought of a good friend of mine, coach
Dave Daubemire. And he had said, he had told me a number of years ago, the truth becomes
hate speech to those who hate the truth. And that is so true today. The fact that they're
attempting to shut you down, that they're trying to shut us down. They're trying to
silence all conservatives. We're in a war. We're under attack. Absolutely. And the very
thing that's happening to you has been happening to us and is happening to us. Everything that
we say on our show that I say, for example, on the various shows, you're including your
platform. I see contemporaneously in lawsuits filed against me. I've got a file or I've
got to defend against the lawsuits of frivolous lawsuits for defamation and everything else.
Lawfare is unrestricted. The abuse of process within the court system is just beyond anything
that I've ever seen before. It's ratcheted up now and now we've got to essentially go
in the offensive.
I was about to say, Pachennik's right. He used to run the open throw governments. We
got to start hitting hard. I mean, I'm just not somebody that goes out and assaults people
politically, but I'm very good at it. I'm going to take the gloves off. How do we take
the gloves off, Doug? You know, when asked Milo?
Well, I think what Milo said, I think it's the vulnerability or the vulnerable enemies
there. We've got to rally the troops, I guess. That's the only way we're going to survive
in this. We've got to stick together. We've got to just circle the wagons and all together.
That's it. Otherwise, we're going to hang separately, you know, the old saying. So we've
got to work together to fight the censorship, I believe, because if we don't do it.
I mean, they're communist cops. They say, kill cops. We can't even send reporters to
the Capitol. Communists with guns won't let them go in. I mean, it's just in the cops,
the local cops, these are groups that want to kill them, say, sorry, Alex, we can't
help you. We've been told not to. I mean, I'm pissed, man.
The good news is that the vast majority of the American public does not agree with what
they're doing, whether or not they share your politics. I agree. I'm just realizing we're
in the middle of like the Bolshevik Revolution, but it's globalist. We if we don't recognize
this like the Russians didn't recognize it up front, we're done because I know we think
we're winning and we got some things going with Trump. But man, I think we've just mobilized
the scum and then we realize we are up against true filth.
Yeah. I mean, I'm trying to I just had to postpone a talk in Phoenix that was supposed
to happen tomorrow. The reason I'm able to stay an extra day. I remember they canceled
it.
The reason I'm able to stay with you is that my talk in Phoenix has been postponed because
Antifa found out the the promoter found out the venue showed up at the guy's house, threatened
his girlfriend, papered the streets that they were going to call and call and call and harass
everybody involved, everybody associated because they're trying to make the price targets the
most dangerous warriors. They're trying to make them untouchable. So you can't do business.
You know, exactly. So what do we do, Doug? I mean, I'm not a I don't want to I don't
want to spill their blood because they're cockroaches. I just don't know how long the
president puts up with this. How long we do I'm ready for the military to go in and because
they've all commit, commit arrest. Everybody that's on the Chinese payroll. I'm ready,
man.
Yeah, I totally agree with you on this. We've got to fight back. We cannot show any any signs
of weakness whatsoever. In my view, anyway, we can never settle whether it's in a in a
law fair venue, we can't settle. We cannot settle for anything but full full frontal
attack at the White House. Sorry. Secret service, no law enforcement injured. Somebody tried
to attack the White House. I'm sorry. Sorry. Just so much breaking this fake this up guys.
Secret service, no very clear. It looked like she was trying to drive up that driveway on
the southwest side of the White House, which enters the complex here for people who are
coming in to either work here or you know, members of Congress will come in through that
entrance as well and drive into West Executive Drive to come into the White House. We don't
know why she was trying to get in there or if it was some sort of accident or medical
condition. We're trying to find that out for you.
Yeah.
Just be a person off their medication or diabetes, who knows, or maybe a jihadi attack. Sorry,
thanks for having me. Go ahead. No, no, that's an important story. I think, look, the war
is on right now and it's on against you and I. It's on against everyone, every conservative
out there, every true stellar out there. And of course, I'm not sure I can even add to
what you and Milo had said. This is an incredible environment, which we find ourselves. And
I think what we, again, we need to fight back, but we need to do so in a very intelligent
and very precise manner. And we cannot allow ourselves, I think, to get too far off the
mark in terms of how we fight. We can't, certainly we can't show our hand. We cannot, I like
what Milo said, the fact that if we give too much information out, the others can replicate
the attacks, what works, what doesn't. A lot of we yell about things, you know, it's
the bottom line is we're dealing with real authoritarians in open calls to ban us. That
has not happened before. And they're trying to do it right now and are doing it. I mean,
all I'm saying is we have to are the listeners. What you said, rally the troops. If people
don't recognize this as the biggest assault on free speech in US history, I mean, this
is un. The problem is that the various branches of the left, all of whom cover for and advocate
for each other. The worst, most violent bits, Antifa, are excused by the leftist establishment
and funded by the same leftist donors who fund the leftists. CNN and others say Antifa,
it's okay to be violent to somebody. Almost unprecedented. And my worry is we're all out
here saying we hate violence. We hate violence to the left. We hate violence in response
to ideas and speech. All we want is to be able to express ourselves. I don't know how
long this country can bear being under that much oppression and authoritarianism.
Now we're armed to taste some. Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life. Cell Force focuses
on mitochondria efficiency and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production
by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria
don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists
agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive
oxygen species. The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available
on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force
from Info Wars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from InfoWarsLife.com. But instead
of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives, tales, and every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth
formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at InfoWarsStore.com,
what it can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found an extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen block. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production. And again, studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials, now we are introducing the fruit of the research,
a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress, and
the fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block, available now
at InfoWarsLife.com or by calling toll-free, triple-A-253-3139.
In the history of InfoWarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the
platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest-quality
lab standard. That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're
finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars. That's InfoWarsLife.com and vitamin mineral
fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Gentlemen, we have called you together to inform you that we are going to overthrow
the United States government.
Leading a frontal assault on the lives of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones.
You still think that you have people brought down to the World Trade Center? Does anybody
else see a problem here? If the government has something to hide, why are they so afraid
to answer a few questions? This story does not end up.
Now for the next huge total internet takeover. I'm not just saying they're announcing the
end of the free internet. They've always faked debates about net neutrality. We had net neutrality
before Obama came in to take over the internet, gave liability protection to the big telecoms
and big computer companies and big social networks to censor. Then Trump wasn't for
that and repealed it, but now it's nebulous and Rupert Murdoch is, when I say crawled,
I don't want to be gross, but brown nosing is one thing. We're talking about a possum,
have you ever seen a possum going to dead cow on the side of the road? I'm not saying
Trump's a dead cow. If Rupert Murdoch could be crawling up the rear end of the president,
he would be doing it. I say that to troll people, but it's daily conversations. Murdoch
is just groveling now when he was a Hillary supporter. I'm in this nightmare position
where I know Trump's good, I know he's awake, I know he's involved, but these are the people
wanting to censor him. They already tried to take Fox left as it failed, so they went
back to what made him successful. Now Disney's taking it over and Murdoch is in the news with
his CEO going, newspapers are going to do great, because we're going to shut everybody else
down and you'll only be able to get our feeds on the internet now. And I'm like, what in
Hades? And then Google is taking directives from Murdoch and his CEO because now they
have right wing cover. So I'm saying the knives are out folks, they're carving the Christmas
pig up here, and I don't just say this, oh, it's all of you, they're going to get all
of you, I don't even care about me. Okay, I'm a little bit fatalistic. I had this mission
I have to carry out, I'm not going to give up, but I'm not suicidal, I want to live forever,
but at the same time, it's kind of like a job to be honorable and work hard. And I'm
just telling you, they've incrementally censored, diddled, manipulated this and that, banned
it over here, but now it is, we're turning it over. And it's here. So asking Milo, asking
Doug Hagman, Doug, if you'll come on Sunday, I want to get you on with me, the Sunday show,
I don't know, we need to freak out, we need to check them with a head cut off, and then
target, but I'm just letting the listeners know this is history book stuff. I keep saying
that Milo.
No, it is. And this is an example of one of those moments in time where regime change,
if you like, happens quietly and slowly and almost while nobody is noticing. The incremental
erosion of rights in America has started to accelerate in the last five or 10 years, the
assaults on the First Amendment, the assaults on the Second Amendment. The voices who are
calling attention to those assaults being snuffed out on social media. I think it's
relatively unprecedented in a large, free, democratic nation for all of the institutions
in that country, the academy, journalism, the media, the entertainment industry, politics,
every one of them.
That's what it is to see them all involved in criminal activity and lies. It's like,
it hurts you, not for you, but the sense of, it's like, Jesus, my country's this overrun.
I thought I knew how, but I thought it was a few controllers.
But this is why you're upset. It's why you get upset on the show. It's why you speak
with such forcefulness. Because the thing that really upsets you and produces general
outrage, not the kind of outrage you see on Twitter, but real outrage, is a sense of
injustice, a sense of unfairness. And when you see these various powerful, massive, interconnected
organs of American society, militating against some of the only people who are...
And taking radical...
It produces indignation, because you feel the injustice, and so does the public. That's
why they voted for Trump.
Exactly. And even though they're over-sampling up to 15 points for Democrats, he's at 50%,
that means 65. What are they going to do, Doug? I guess this is their desperate act,
because I mean, openly going at Hitler level censorship, people overuse Hitler. This is
it, Larry. To do this is a bold move, Doug.
Yeah, and my question to both of you conversationally here is, can we play by the rules? What are
the... First of all, what are the rules?
They're always changing.
Yeah. And if... Can we afford to play by the rules? Because if we do, we're going to be
silenced anyway.
And that's it. They're forcing us to really do... They think they're nasty and dirty because
they get into that. Good people don't like to use those weapons, but we're the masters
of it. Is that what you're saying, Doug?
This is why conservatives typically don't succeed in cultural fights, because they know
how to fight dirty and because they're honorable issues not to.
Yeah, well, I'm not doing this to be threatening. I think I'm going to go ahead and access the
dark side. No, I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. Doug, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Peel back the fake face minority report style. Like, Mission Impossible.
I'm going to be nice. Doug, it does trigger parts of the brain. Go ahead, Doug.
No, I'm there. I'm right there with you. Look, I don't know what the answer is. I do know
that we're all, again, as you said, not to rehash this, but we're all under attack. We've
been under attack.
We're in a corner and we're not going to roll over like people in Nazi Germany. You sons
of bitches, you're about to get it. Feel mud, all you people. That's who's behind all this.
Sorry. Go ahead, Doug. I apologize.
No, don't apologize. I feel the same way. I really do. And the way I'm looking at this
is attempting to formulate some sort of a response, because when you shout and no one
listens, when you call 911 and no one comes, what do you do? We're being forced in that
corner. And again, I go back to that statement, the truth becomes hate speech. Those who hate
the truth, what are they trying to silence? What are they so afraid of? Are they that
afraid of us?
And I do say they are. They're that afraid of the truth coming out of them.
Put them all in the American dream. Right. It's interesting you say that when you call
911, excuse me, it's 999 in England, so it always gets messed up in my head. 911, which
is what you have here, when you call and nobody comes, the American people have seen the corruption
of law enforcement, people coming to hear my college talks and the police standing down
and allowing Antifa to do half a million dollars worth of damage to Berkeley, a hundred thousand
dollars worth of damage to the college.
They've seen the people employed, paid, who are supposed to be dedicated to keeping the
public safe, stand back and let people get beaten up and pepper sprayed to protect the
feelings of leftists. They've seen, literally.
My feelings are hurt. I'm going to hit you in the head with a bike lock.
And that, of course, was a professor, was a member of the faculty at Berkeley in a black
mask with a bike lock.
And he's a little, he's a thing, I'm not against betas, but he's a little beta rat trying
to be an alpha male. And then alpha sit back because we're confident. I think what Doug's
getting in is, what is the big dog, fat dog, get off the porch?
When do you, yeah, it's sort of, you get nipped by little minnows so many times, you know,
sooner or later you have to bat them away in some fashion.
But I had a top globalist off record, tell me, he goes, Alex, you think all these nicks
make people wake up? That's because you should join us. You're awake. He goes, the public
is going to become conditioned and evolved to accept this. And I just can't believe humanity's
crap.
I think there's a spirit in human beings, a need for freedom, a desire to express themselves.
And I think the first and the first and second amendment, this country has been so successful
because it's founded on principles that are innate to the human spirit.
That empower individuals.
Exactly, which is what we're defending classic Americana and these, they're openly pushing
classic tyranny. And how is it not clear, Doug?
It should be clear to every thinking American. The problem is we don't have enough thinking
Americans. We don't have enough people, I think, that care enough. You know, it's almost
as if not enough people have yet been affected by this. The silent majority, I look, I really
believe there are a number of great people out there. The majority of people in the United
States are great people. They're freedom loving people. But they're too humble to take action
because they think taking action is arrogant. No, it's survival. Awaken and take action
now.
Sorry, go ahead.
No, you're exactly right. We've been playing too nice. We've been playing by several roles
that they keep changing that we really don't know what they are. So now I think we have
to become more offensive, offensive to get the truth out there. We have to demand accountability
of our officials. I know that sounds like some sort of a trite statement.
No, but if you march down to the congressman's event or woman's event, if you go there and
it's not just my one reporter being attacked by 15 guys with guns and the police look on,
and I actually had to call the military off, actually, on those anti... That's insane.
The military is not going to public this much longer.
It does seem to me that libertarians and conservatives in this country are going to have to do what
they've typically been squeamish about doing, which is showing out on mass in public to
protest it.
I've watched Antifa punch somebody when they hit back. They complain. It's like, you're
supposed to... This is my video game. I'm supposed to kick your... No, I'm going to break your
job, brother.
Yeah. But you know, conservatives, you know, libertarians, Republicans, whatever, have typically
been reticent to show out in large numbers on the streets. Protesting is a left-wing
thing, right, that women's march all the rest of it. It seems to me that we need to put
that aside now.
I agree. America is in an emergency. It is in a civil war. They're trying to shut us
down online.
I agree. That's the answer. I'm hitting the streets now, every day.
That's a big sign, too.
All right, Milo, I appreciate you coming into town. Dangerous.com. Doug Hagman, Haggoreport.com.
Doug, we love you. Thank you for coming and letting us hijack the broadcast. Please join
me as soon as you can at Haggoreport.com.
And take your body back with SuperMail Vitality. You're breaking the conditioning and fighting
back against the global restore on Mail Vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
SuperMail Vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals. InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males. Support your body and mind and take yourself to the
next level. Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of SuperMail Vitality today at InfoWarsLife.com.
New from EmRick's Essentials, fragrance-free natural deodorant for your body care needs.
Playing basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat. To maintain my game,
I need all the confidence I can get. That's why I use EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant
made with organic ingredients. This deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals
to ionize odor, keeping me fresh throughout the day. While shooting hoops, the last thing
I want is sweaty armpits making my hands slippery and the ball wet. That's why I recommend
EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free deodorant. Even though it's unscented, it's effective
at combating strong body odor and I don't have to worry about any unwanted allergic
reactions to my sensitive skin. Whether you're a guy or gal, the last thing you want to be
worried about is your deodorant. No petroleum-based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty-free.
Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free natural deodorant available
at InfowarsStore.com.
