From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Isn't the difficulty here legislatively the Constitution, which is Brett Stevens' point in the New York Times,
which is he's calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment, and he says,
the United States is by far more guns and more hands than any other country in the developed world.
It has by far the highest incidence of firearm-related homicides and suicides.
Correlation is not causation, but since Americans aren't dramatically crazier than other nationalities,
what other explanation is there?
However, it is in our Constitution, unlike other Western democracies.
There they are, saying, what a wonderful idea in the New York Times.
Let's just float it. Let's repeal the Second Amendment.
Let's get rid of it, because that's what we really want to do, is take guns from the average person.
And this is their big assault. This is their big push.
And I don't like hearing stuff out of Eric Trump's mouth about still a big deal to ban people up to 21 having firearms.
That's all about discriminating against everybody else that doesn't do anything wrong,
just because the media and governments sit there and promote mass shootings and create these victim disarmament zones.
And then they have almost every one of these shooters under state care on psychotropic drugs,
and the insert of the drug class says it can cause you to have psychotic breaks and engage in mass murder.
They knew that back in the 70s and couldn't get serotonin reuptake inhibitors approved,
because they caused psychotic breaks in a few percentage points of people.
I've known women on these drugs.
Women is the largest group, and I've had girlfriends, a couple of them, and if they drink one beer,
their pupils go all the way out bigger than somebody on PCP, and they just are totally insane.
And then there, of course, is an infomaniac activity as well.
I mean, it is out of their minds.
With just two people I've known that have been on it,
and you end up taking some other pills with it or something, cuckoo land.
Then all these young kids are playing shoot-em-up video games.
I'm not saying ban those, I'm talking about the facts.
They're all shoot-em-up video game obsessed.
They're all on serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
I haven't seen a case where they aren't.
Basically, it's all of them, every major mass shooting.
And then they're about half the time in state care.
And then you've got another stand down, the bizarre statements of this sheriff that are coming up,
where he's doing a fantastic job, and he's fantastic, and it's not his problem if his deputies don't go in and stop shooters.
Total dereliction of duty.
It's incredible.
And then we know the big plan.
It is to get rid of shooting sports, it's to get rid of young people,
even being able to shoot firearms with their parents.
We've already seen all the bills they've tried to get through before at the state and federal level,
and it's to ban anybody until 18 to 21, depending on what state the Democrats have pushed this.
They even tried it in Texas, which got me politically involved 25 years ago,
to say that anybody under 21 in Texas couldn't even touch a firearm,
or even have their grandfather or father or anybody buy a firearm.
So I'm going to stop right there.
I'm going to be very calm today, I have to, because I've got a long way to go in a short time to get there,
because what I should have opened the broadcast up with is our top story, and I'm going to go over all of it here today.
A lot of times I don't recognize what's happening until I'm already wrapped up in the bailing wire,
but you're getting in here first, and no one else is announcing it, and I wish people were,
and it took me until this weekend to figure it out, and now it's crystal clear, I just got chills.
The globalists are launching their full revolution against us right now,
and it's going to be a lot more than just the guns.
We're going to come back and talk about it on the other side, stay with us.
I'm so excited, the new product at mfullwarslife.com, in a glass bottle,
two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it,
but boy does it stimulate, because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules,
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have
to even make the hormones in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at mfullwarsstore.com, and your purchase fuzz the operation.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center,
in the heart of the resistance, rallying Patriots worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, Tim Fruget, the operations director here at mfullwars,
just walked in seconds before I went live on air.
He was just here, and he said, it's incredible.
You called me last night, and you predicted that this would happen this week.
I got it right here on my phone when I called him last night.
And sure enough, he just walked in and he said, we've got biggest DDoS attack ever,
even though we've got all these backup servers that has brought mfullwars down.
He's like, how did you know that would happen today?
And I said, well, it's obvious.
CNN is on television, not operating as a news agency, but as a criminal globalist combine,
involved in a purge.
And that's the headlines we sent out on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter on our backup accounts,
because they've shut us down on YouTube, being able to stream.
And they are moving to remove us from the internet.
And if you've noticed the headlines I put out at the start of the show when it went live,
five minutes before Tim Fruget walked in here and told me what just happened.
The headline is there is a massive globalist Democrat purge of thousands of established
conservative libertarian Christian pro-second amendment sites.
Yeah, it's not just the famous baseball player that simply sent out a tweet pointing out that the four young people
we see out of the 3,000 students clearly have been scripted.
They spin that and say Kirk Schilling says they're all actors and the shooting never happened.
And then he's banned from the Hall of Fame.
It's a giant Schilling effect where they're going after the Second Amendment, they're going after the NRA,
they're going after gun shops, they're saying we're not going to let you have credit cards in NRA,
we're not going to let you have merchant accounts, we're not going to let you operate in society.
And it's the big banks with the media and the whole system.
And the main targets are the Trump family, Info Wars and the NRA.
They're attacking people they fear that tell the truth, understand what's happening.
They're going after the Motor City madman Ted Nugent who happens to be on in the next hour.
They are telling incredible lies on Colbert, on Kimmel.
They will misrepresent what people said.
CNN LaFriday said we are in consultation and inside Alex Jones' accounts on YouTube
and working with them to have his sites and his presence on YouTube banned.
And then they had Glenn Beck, Dan Rather and David Hogg, the young man, the senior,
on TV talking about banning the pollution of Alex Jones.
And Hogg didn't agree with Beck and Stelter and Dan Rather on the same show.
He said, oh, they've made me really big saying the shooting didn't happen and that I'm a crisis actor.
We didn't say that. Nobody said that about you.
We point out you're in the drama club, you're an anti-gun activist, you've been involved before,
you're in the journalism club, your mom works at CNN, your dad works for the FBI,
out of 3,000 students, televisions the David Hogg channel, we're just saying you're an anti-gun spokesperson.
And so they spin that and we're bullying children, put it in newspapers across the country, never quote us,
and then move CNN as a supposed news agency to shut info wars down.
Then I start getting flooded with hundreds of phone calls, hundreds and hundreds of emails and comments everywhere.
We're established pro-military firearm review sites, just normal commerce, the stuff the military and the police buy.
Being totally banned, where they just black out all your videos, they delete them.
Here's just one example, military arms channel, huge channel, reached hundreds of millions of people,
hundreds of their, every one of their videos deleted.
Just reviews, range day, hunting.
Oh, see, they want to ban the Second Amendment and they want to ban the speech about it.
And I told everybody on Friday, I said, you hang together, you hang separate.
Only Matt Grudge linked to our article on Friday night.
And to the two banned videos that YouTube banned, we hosted them on our own server.
As of Saturday evening, there were 7 million views, I haven't looked at it, I dread to see what the views are now,
because just that was $3,400 I know in our own bandwidth.
And I said right there, I told Tim Frasier last night, I said, man, they're not going to let us actually show what we really said,
because they can't do that, because then it shows what liars they are, they're going to try to take the sites down.
So infowars.com is down right now, that's why we have newswars.com and prisonplanet.com.
And I'm sure those listing will now hit those.
But this is what they're up to, and they're doing it to a lot of other people right now.
Dana Loesch got up there and they said, you are a murderer.
And then they started saying, burn her, burn her.
And she had to get out with security as people rushed the stage to attack her.
They have killed the NRA signs up, they have hashtag hunt Republicans on CNN.
There are mayors all over the country.
I watched one this morning in Oakland saying we will not allow any deportation or any federal officers ever here.
And we're telling people to resist when they come.
Racketeering, you name it.
They said, you're coming with warrants for MS-13 at drug houses for people deported sometimes 20, 30 times.
San Francisco lets people off to shoot women in the back and admit it.
And they go, we're letting you go as a symbol, do whatever you want.
And I'm sitting there this morning watching her live on CNN, the mayor saying, I'll go to jail.
And here's the big announcement.
I've known this and understood it, but it really hit me.
They have radicalized and criminalized even the lowest level Democrat now.
They have activated them through social media, through all their manipulation.
What Sean Parker talked about, the dopamine manipulation, the fake bots.
Under fake peer pressure, they have got them just vicious.
I mean, if I walk on the street in Austin, 20 people walk by, 10 of them say, hi Alex, keep it up.
One of them starts trying to attack me.
Men, women, children, you name it.
They are totally, and they start screaming Nazi, Nazi, Russian, Russian.
They are just, and they believe they're allowed to attack.
Once you get back and get ready to knock upside the head, they go, what are you doing?
I'm just going to spit and attack you.
I'm allowed to attack.
It's larping.
It's live action role playing.
And they always look mentally ill.
They always look disheveled.
They always look like they're just totally whacked out of every race, color, and creed.
Even if they're getting in a nice car, they'll kind of stumble and they're like, they're not awake.
They're in a trance state.
They have been hypnotically put into a trance.
This is medical.
This is mainstream news.
I see articles every day where many kids are in a trance state, near sleep state, from the smart phones, the TV, all of it.
So there is a full on criminal attack where you've got CNN saying, cops get killed, just cops are bad.
They want to bully you into going under federal control, which a lot of cities are doing.
And under UN control under the strong cities, they're just ignoring serious hardened criminals that are here,
saying, we're not going to let you deport them.
They are savagely running around saying, oh, Alex Jones bullied children and then deleting videos where we show just from last week,
three different youths in the school saying there were multiple shooters and now more of that's coming out.
And then they totally misrepresent and say it's something else.
And then we try to put up the video so you can see them and they just took our site down and this is going to post this to newswars.com.
Everybody, as soon as it goes up, they may take that site down as well.
You've got to get this information right now.
You've got to get it out.
Parkland teacher said, full on military gear, not him.
Like the other students said, they saw people in military garb, not just one, and that it was wearing a face mask, everything.
And there's witnesses that, again, the shooter was with other young people when this happened.
The eyewitnesses have been on the show that it's been on the local news.
So that's why they're so desperate.
It turns out there is a cover up here.
The official story is not true.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend Heart and Body Extract to everyone.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online, hbextract.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide
while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico
where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida. Victor, you're calling? Go ahead.
Yes. Hi, Alex. First, I just want to mention, if people just go and try the products,
they will be ordering all the time.
I've ordered several of the products over and over because it's amazing.
In particular, silver bullet, as soon as I start to feel like I get a little stick,
you know, maybe like a little raspiness in my throat,
I drop some silver bullet and it like, I'll still feel a little sick, but it won't last as long.
And I just ordered the body, the alpha power and the pollen block.
Well, let me just say something, Victor. It's people like you that then fund the whole operation
because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage of them buy a lot of the products.
So thank you. But when you mention the silver bullet, colloidal silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98% review.
It is our highest reviewed product because it is from the top lab in the country discounted high quality colloidal silver.
It's not a silver bullet, but it's the closest thing you're going to find to a silver bullet.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
We've been actually talking about that for a long time. Let me answer the question. Let me answer the question.
You can shout me down when I'm finished, but let me answer Emma's question.
It's not federal law for states to report convictions to the NIC system. It's not federally mandated.
That's the big question. And I wish that this network had also covered this more as other media networks would have covered it.
That's a huge, wait a second, wait a second.
You guys, if I can't hear her statement, I can't come up with a rebuttal. Please.
And they're chanting, burn her. Not lock her up for crimes. She hasn't committed crimes, but burn her.
How me too.
While Harvey Weinstein is reportedly raped women, not burn them.
What a nice group of people.
By the way, infowars.com is down.
And while you still can, I guess you can visit infowars.com and newswars.com. Obviously, I need to call Paul Watson and have him write an article about it for newswars.com.
I'm sure the only site that will care this war on free speeches going on is Drudge.
Other than you, the radio affiliates and the listeners and the TV affiliates, this is just going on like it's no big deal.
Seeing it comes out and says we want Alex Jones banned. We want him off YouTube. We're meeting with YouTube to have him banned.
Lynn Beck comes on and says, yes, these platforms aren't doing enough to stop Alex Jones by name.
They didn't have Dan Rather and Skelter in the same hour. They're all in the same hour together. Reliable forces.
I'll call for them to tap down and stop this pollution.
And so you're, you're hearing the pollution, ladies and gentlemen, and what is it?
The videos they banned were not us saying that the shooting didn't happen.
Videos they banned were not of us saying they were crisis actors.
The videos they banned was us asking why out of 3,000 students are the only four of them we're seeing on the news.
It's turned out CNN was staging town halls.
And there it is right there, Glen Beck conspiracy theories. I already played this stuff yesterday, but I'll get to it today.
But imagine how surreal this is. And then they're going after the NRA.
They've got all these companies dumping them. They're now getting banks to say once they build up this whole new hashtag to now say all gun owners and guns themselves are to blame,
then the state will use the guns to control us. And the left always has a talking point.
They go, Jones first claim military and police were coming to put us in FEMA camps, but now he says the military and police are good.
Now I said the military and police were good. They told me about it 20 years ago and Bill Clinton was trying to get him ready for it.
And then Obama expanded it and Bush expanded the police statement.
The whole arrest the Christians, arrest the patriots, that kind of stopped for a while.
But remember all the Mayak documents and Homeland Security documents that federal police, federal agents gave us?
Remember all those exclusives? They were worried about it.
And then when the cops wouldn't roll over to the globalist, the cop killing starts.
And then the Loretta Lynch shows up with a strong cities initiative and says, let the UN take control of you through Justice Department power.
But they'll advise you kind of like the UN until six months ago was running.
Six months ago took about six months to get it in place.
So it's about eight months ago that the State Department got orders from the UN Refugee Board.
This went back to Bill Clinton and that the UN said, who got to come into the US? Look it up.
Trump's like, that's insane. We're killing that.
Took him six months into his administration to get it done.
So when I tell you they wanted the police under UN control to search engine, their speeches, I've played them.
You can't make this up. See, I said I'm going to be calm. I've just got all the pieces here.
They admit it. They are in one unified criminal group.
You know, Kimmel attacked the president.
He attacked the president's son. He attacked Ted Nugent and said that they said nobody died and that it's all fake.
But didn't show Ted Nugent saying it. It didn't show any of that.
And when you know what he's doing, everything he was saying was a lie.
Everything. Everything. It was so sick.
Oh man, I tell you.
And then you know that Jimmy Kimmel admitted three months ago that for the last year he talks to Chuck E. Schumer's office sometimes hours a day.
And that they write his monologue. So he's going, nobody's got talking points.
I don't. The kids don't. This is ridiculous.
And you've got CNN caught running fake town halls for years running fake debates, fake questions.
It's all in the WikiLeaks. Fake polls.
And then Kimmel says, in past shows, he goes, this is me personally.
I don't appreciate you saying I'm a father. These kids are real.
And then he thinks we're so dumb. He's in the New York Times a couple of months ago going,
I'm really best friends with Chuck Schumer now.
And that's what they do in their own publications.
They go, we're going to repeal the Second Amendment. Play the clip earlier.
We're going to break the families up. Christianity is going to be banned.
We're going to bring all the Muslims in. And you're reading this in their own publications.
And then they go on TV and lie to you because they think you're an idiot.
He's like he has the fake news thing where he goes out and tells people that Wakanda is real and the Black Panther is real.
And all these LA people think it's real. People are trying to, by the way, book flights.
It's in the news to Wakanda. I predicted that last week with the crew.
So he knows he's got an audience that thinks Marvel comic movies are real.
And he's just in there savaging those poor people.
Now, here's why they're so scared.
I know there's real shootings. I don't see almost every time they're being on psychotropic.
Everybody gets warned. The first witnesses told us the video they banned was people saying there were multiple shooters.
10 police cars pulled up. They didn't go in and help anybody.
And then there were soldiers inside moving the bodies. And then the police went in later.
We now have six different newscasts with teachers and with students saying, I've played this.
I didn't realize what they were so scared of.
That's why they're hacking the site right now that I haven't looked at the numbers since Saturday.
The two banned videos on YouTube had 7,100,000 views by Saturday night.
I don't know. I don't want to look at the bandwidth because I have to pay for it.
But the point is, is that as soon as the government gets things, we've been working seven days a week.
Have them print me the latest data on that. I want to show viewers, right off our servers.
When we come back, this is what they're scared of.
The minute this went up, the site went down, which by the way, you can't do unless you have access to the servers where we have them.
Because we stuck our servers in places where you have to have the internal switches.
This is not a normal DNS attack.
They went in at the governmental level. Oh, and by the way, see how it all ties together.
What's in Reuters right now?
Apple is going to store its cloud keys for the entire planet in China.
And under Chinese law, the Chinese government will run it.
It hit me this morning, even before this happened. This is the global assault.
They're probably going to start blowing up federal buildings, shooting more schools. Get ready.
Get ready. They're coming. This is it. They're coming. This is it.
They're going to try to kill the president. I'd say in the next two weeks, we know they've already been trying.
They're going to start false flagging. This is it. Get ready. Everybody.
If you have children in public schools or you're working federal buildings, I would get out. I would get out.
One out of four people listening to my voice right now could die from heart disease.
This could be your last year, and you don't even know it because you don't know the early warning signs.
If you think you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal, think again,
because studies show that 75% of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol levels.
Let me introduce you to Strauss Heart Drops, a world-famous heart and brain formula made in Canada.
It's time-tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your money back.
Learn more at scienceofheartdisease.com. They are shipping free this month.
You know, I've got some talking points here about cavemanfrominfowarslife.com,
but instead of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence.
We know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick.
Again, in every culture, this has been reported because it works.
And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein
and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins,
whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen,
is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there, and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarstore.com, what it can do for your family,
and again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
It's daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Come on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion
and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Conspiracy.
And by the way, the person who was behind that conspiracy
is the same guy behind a lot of these conspiracies, Alex Jones.
Politico described that as something at the time.
They said, well, that's just things that people are saying because they don't like the other guy.
That's the problem. We're willing to accept things about the other guy
because we don't like him.
Well, as that is the line was after 9-11,
what's worse now are the social networks,
that they spread these crazy theories to millions of people.
What's worse is these social networks.
He went on earlier to say, get rid of the pollution, he says it again.
So this is a so-called news agency that's so discredited, caught lying about everything,
lying about scut attacks when they were in Atlanta claiming they were in Saudi Arabia.
I mean, this is all famous.
Fake town halls, fake debates, fake questions, fake questioners, fake polls,
and then they have a fake story that we said the shooting didn't happen
and they take down, CNN takes down.
CNN files complaints as they talk to executives and said,
why aren't you removing him completely?
Well, they've blocked our main streams.
They've done all this other torches interference.
This is incredible.
But see, Stelter is supposed to run your life.
Glenn Beck is supposed to run your life.
Look at these two.
Failures, both of them.
No ratings, operations collapsing.
CNN and Glenn Beck's operations are twins of admitted failure.
That's collapse.
Beck's lost half his stations.
CNN's going into free fall.
Reportedly, Beck is a basket case who believes he's like the Christ.
And I knew this years ago.
I said, really?
No, he thinks he's like a messiah.
So you've got the guy that endorsed Hillary Clinton and then apologized to Obama saying everything he said was wrong,
who now goes and falls on his sword with little Stelter, Humpty Dumpty,
saying, oh, you used to be a conspiracy theorist yourself.
Yeah, until you joined the dark side.
And so they go on.
Alex Jones.
Yes, he's the one, the one that said we stood down on 9-11,
that said there's globalist residing with Islam inside our government.
Brennan Zohabi is all this has come out the 28 pages.
Rand Paul's covered it.
Congressman Walter Jones has covered it.
Senators have seen the 28.
It was a stand down.
They knew it was going on bare minimum.
They translate that and I said the firefighters blew up the building.
Never said that.
It's like saying, oh, you say the government's corrupt.
You hate the post office people.
You think they're tyrants?
See how they play that game?
Hey, these kids work for the Democrats that are in Italy and in PR and why are we only seeing them on TV?
And why does this town hall look fake?
Turns out it's all PR.
But a shooting happened.
When we get done with Beck here, I'm going to play the clip.
They don't want you to see.
Info Wars is up and down because we have backup servers and things like that.
But it's a big attempt to shut it down, to take it down.
Newswars.com, prisonplanet.com.
We've mirrored the video and we've mirrored the article.
But this video is on our servers.
They'll take this down.
And what they take down is Good Morning America.
What they take down is KHOU.
What they take down is the local Miami station.
And they don't take them down saying copyright.
No, no, no, no, no. CNN says these videos are bullying children.
And then what they are is young adult seniors on my show and on local news saying the same thing.
It was weird.
They took us outside.
It was a fire drill.
Then like 10 police cars pulled up.
None of them went in.
The shooting was then going on.
This went on for six, seven, eight minutes.
The deputies wouldn't go in.
And then, you know, we saw men inside while the shooting was happening that were army.
That just means look like army uniforms.
And they were piling the dead bodies up in the corners.
And then we've got video of the SWAT team with body bags.
Dearing the shooting, putting body bags in the back.
I mean, was it Islamists that attacked?
Just like Vegas, I was told by the FBI.
No, this guy was doing gun running, paddock.
He was meeting with them.
It was a gun deal.
They had the Saudi Arabians in town, the military for a big summit close to was 10,000 Saudis.
And that there was a revolution inside the Saudi government.
And this was a threat to Trump that you better watch out.
We can take it right to, you know, your hotels and casinos.
That all basically came out later.
And they admit there's a cover up and won't say what happened and said,
maybe in a couple years we'll tell you.
I mean, I really got the call from the hostage rescue team.
Just like I got the internal government documents,
how Obama was planning to go after gun owners and veterans from the FBI and federal marshals.
Because there are patriots in there.
They say I hate the FBI and hate the police and hate the military. It's all crap.
That's where we get our information.
That's why they're so upset.
And ladies and gentlemen, this is all happening.
Now, let me, let me just say this very succinctly.
So I can take a minute of this and put it on the front of the second segment,
the third segment so we can just crystallize this.
The globalists are launching the biggest assault on commerce, free speech,
the First Amendment, gun owners, veterans, Christians, libertarians.
It's being purged on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube.
Banks are saying that, you know, major sporting goods stores and Cabela's and the NRA can't do business.
It's serious racketeering when they're legal, lawful businesses that sell to the public
for stuff that isn't even about self-defense, which is the prime right,
but hunting everything being targeted.
Anybody that sells guns, it's total harassment.
The media is calling for it.
They're calling for the death of the president.
They've got anti-fielder streets with guns telling people they can't demonstrate.
You've got mayors all over the country saying we're warning people of impending ICE raids.
We have the police department watching the feds when they try to raid MS-13.
We're telling them they have a right to resist that it's an unlawful arrest.
I'm watching the mayor this morning.
We treat and find the clip saying do not comply, do not open the door.
It's an unlawful order.
That's saying resist.
If you look at the law, that's racketeering.
All of that.
And by the way, ICE has general warrants to go to these addresses from what they have from sworn witnesses.
So they're saying don't listen to lawful warrants.
That's called civil war.
That's what happened when the South in the early 1860s, and I'm not choosing sides here,
but it was the South, began to say we're not going along with what you say.
And then the whole thing started kicking off.
That was cities and states at first doing that.
We've got Austin, Texas.
We've got Denver, Colorado.
We've got more than 100 cities that are large saying we don't care if you shoot a woman in the back.
We're going to let you go.
We don't care if you're an MS-13 and been deported 15 times.
We don't care of an aggravated film.
This is all admitted.
We don't care if you came from Saudi Arabia illegally.
You can stay.
And remember the feds two days in the San Bernardino.
We're saying they're not Muslims.
No Muslim connection.
They're screaming Allah Akbar as they attacked her by her on the Christmas tree.
The neighbors were all afraid of saying they were so politically correct.
That's how big a cult they're in that illegal alien deported four times with all these felonies,
shoots a woman in the back for fine, and the liberals go, you go free, brother.
So that's what's going on, ladies and gentlemen.
You look at who on these videos who ISIS walking out as guys with tattoos all over MS-13.
But that's what's going on.
You do that in Mexico.
They ship you out.
But after about a year of forced labor.
So I'm going to come back with the bet.
And then I promise I got to get these clips.
What they don't want you to know is the video that's now up on news wars.com.
Parkland teacher shooter was wearing full metal body armor helmet and face mask,
which is what the other students said by name on local TV that they're shooting going on
and all this stuff all hell breaking loose.
And there is Cruz with nothing is Jim bag.
No weapons.
No nothing while it's going and then now more witnesses and we've had them on and then see it in reaches in.
And says you can't see that and has it deleted.
And now info wars is being hacked and being taken down because they're desperate to keep you from knowing about all this.
But here's the bottom line.
The globalist when you study warfare in a asymmetrical type 21st century guerrilla warfare system like this,
it starts informationally, then it's intimidation, then it's financial, then the violence ratchets up,
then they use a bunch of false flags to bring in the full day with secret 12.
It's like lightning in a bottle.
We all have days in which we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to.
Info wars life secret 12 is designed to naturally energize your body and mind with two great tasting and super high quality forms of vitamin B 12.
Proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to keep your body functioning at optimum levels.
The reality is it's hard to take in the proper amount of vitamins we need each day with our modern diets.
Secret 12 by info wars life is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin B 12 intake and support your body's natural systems.
It pairs two forms of vitamin B 12 into one explosive formula.
Vitamin B 12 supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell formation and aiding in the body's natural processes.
But it also assists with many other functions of the body.
Electrify your mind and body and take your health to the next level.
Experience the power of secret 12 at infowarslife.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
Feel the rush without the crash.
Brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B 12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain force plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
That's infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
It's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public.
So please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to the most hated, the most reviled transmission in the eyes of the globalist worldwide.
We are their enemy because we know their operations, we study them, we know their plans and we're taking the country and the world back from them right now.
But let me make the announcement, we're in the middle of a civil war.
I told you the Democrats were pushing one towards a civil emergency, the day Trump won.
And a few months later, they had that talking point.
That's because I understand how the CIA overthrows modern governments.
And it's not the entire CIA.
It's the leftist.
It's the big foundations.
It's kind of the Harvard mafia.
That's what they call themselves.
And they're embedded in everything.
They don't do the killing.
They don't do the fighting.
They just sit there and run around robbing the country and selling us out to communist China.
They're transferring all the computer codes for Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter, you name it, all of your codes to China.
They are letting communist China run the cloud so that they can now merge with China.
This is a takeover.
Hillary was supposed to open the door when she got elected to a total Chinese takeover of all of our media, everything.
This was an U.S. stay-behind networks of patriots that have been aware of these plans for decades were burrowed in.
They were inches away from a military coup against Obama.
But they went with another plan.
I've told you about this to instead engage in information warfare with the truth against the globalist and get Trump in.
And what you're seeing is an American president and emergency stabilization.
But we've not gotten the whole country back.
We've not got beachheads.
We turned the economy back on to show you it was artificially controlled.
We're doing everything we can.
I'm just a private citizen fighting these people who just naturally grew into the research of this and understood it and built the platform to oppose the globalist that then fit in when the time was needed for the defense of the republic.
But this is the defense of the republic.
And we have an incredibly honorable president with a lot of courage.
We have a lot of good citizens across the country, you namely, that are supporting us.
But I've told you we're entering the false flag time where they'll either let people attack that are mentally ill.
They'll stage it themselves.
They've been caught doing it before.
And then where if you pointed out you get banned off of Facebook, Google, Twitter, all this, they're not just going to ban you there.
They're going to shut down your business.
They're going to come after you.
And they think you'll shut up and just go along hoping they leave you alone.
But now thousands of conservative and veteran sites and pro gun sites and Christian sites and libertarian sites.
They're all being banned right now by the thousands, by the thousands.
If you want to go to info wars.com, it's back up for now.
It's watch these videos, these info wars videos that were banned by YouTube.
And you can see our statement there in our breakdown of the whole situation and the videos they don't want you to see.
Are hog being given questions and saying, is that okay?
How do I say this?
How do I say that?
We're just pointed out he's being scripted.
We're not saying the attack didn't happen.
He's a crisis actor.
But the other video they took down again and gave us a strike is eyewitnesses on KHOU news, local news and others saying that there were multiple shooters and that they were with Nicholas Cruz while the shooting is going on.
And that outside, it was a fire drill already.
They go outside and there's 10 police cars sitting there and that there were men, army men.
That just means men in military guard inside wearing full mask, piling bodies in the corners.
Now the interest of time, I've already played these videos many times and they're on the side of you want to see them.
I've already played them probably six, seven, eight times a piece but see it in is flipping out and so are others.
And remember this all came together.
The Project Veritas videos, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google, the New York Times and the New York Times head guy liaison with YouTube and the YouTube liaison that's high level are saying our main job is to stop Alex Jones and anything like it.
And to shadow bad it and not let people spread it and block it.
And I'm putting video on screen for people that want to see the name of the video and where it's at.
So I've already played this probably 20 times and that's why it's so critical.
And they said, oh, we actually run YouTube.
There's a consortium of big media that's interfaced in our war against America.
They actually say this and they're like, what do you mean war against America?
One of the other videos, well, we don't allow American flags.
You like American flags or veterans or anything.
You're banned, but these dumbasses don't eat these dumbass rednecks.
That's anybody that's white.
They don't know their band.
We call it shadow band.
And in all the videos, they laugh.
Oh, they're going to get you.
It's so crazy.
So what do they not want you to know about?
There's another one.
This was on Good Morning America.
This stuff slips out when they have people on that they thought that, you know,
that they talked to and they thought they know what they would say.
They're not really scripting them.
They just try to script the interviews because I mean,
anybody's been on CNN or Good Morning America knows.
So you can talk about this, right?
We're going to go here.
Okay.
And then let's just stay on these topics.
Well, she goes off script and she got shot and talks about what she saw,
which is what everybody else saw while there was Nick Cruz.
But we just kind of went along to the media, okay, I mean, he's the shooter.
Then they said we said he wasn't the shooter.
And why was that?
Because they wanted to discredit the idea and say,
you'll be taken out of the baseball hall of fame.
You'll be fired.
You'll be destroyed.
You'll be whatever.
If you listen to the students, if you listen to the victims,
if you say there were multiple shooters,
if you say there was a police stand down,
if you say CNN, fake the town hall,
the town halls that admitted fake now,
the scripting by students, the four, not all the real students,
and by real, I mean real grassroots, not scripted.
And again, if you're a TV viewer,
I'm putting on screen just the video of all the people saying this,
so you can know what to go look at and know what to go pull up.
It's on infowars.com.
So here it is.
Parkland Teacher's Shooter was wearing full metal body armor,
helmet, face mask.
Survivors offered strange description of encounter with killer.
A teacher who was grazed by a bullet while saving students
during the school massacre in Parkland, Florida,
offered a detailed description of the shooter
during an appearance in Good Morning America
that adds confusion to official narrative.
But what she says was exactly what all the students say,
except for the four.
The 3,000 students, you'll only hear from four.
All the others say it's all scripted.
They're being lied.
There's multiple shooters.
Shows get shot off or they don't play it.
Stacy Lipple, Lappell, a language arts creative writing teacher
at Marjory Summit High School,
came face to face with the shooter on February 14th
as she ushered terrified students
into her classrooms for shelter.
She crouched.
She chronicled in her encounter during a sit-down interview
on Good Morning America.
And then it gets into how weird it was.
It gets into how it doesn't match up with what other mainstream
media wants you to hear,
but matches up with what all the other students are saying.
So right now we know this.
We're going to come back by the video in one minute.
We're not supposed to question anything.
While the left says Dana Loesch and the NRA are murderers,
kill the NRA billboard, stay up.
Kill members of Congress.
Kill everyone.
Kill, kill, kill.
We're going to ban your guns.
We're not going to let you have bank accounts.
We're going to confiscate them.
Okay, we do want to repeal the Second Amendment.
And then I see the other conservative sites and everybody,
even as they're getting censored and banned and stuff going,
oh, well, we'll beat them this time again.
This is their main assault.
It's red alert.
Democrats admit they're not coming for the second.
They're coming for all the amendments.
So that's coming up on the other side of this quick break,
ladies and gentlemen.
There is so much more to break down here today,
but they are openly calling for us to be banned and us to be taken off.
They obviously want to shut us down.
They're trying as hard as they can.
They admit that's their plan.
Other so-called news agencies like CNN.
And I'm simply asking you to pray for Info Wars,
but to understand this isn't about Info Wars.
It's about us all.
They're coming after everybody's free speech right now.
They are coming after it.
They are admitting they're doing it.
And the way they're pushing and building up the rhetoric and the violence
and all of it is by design to create a climate.
So when they kill the president and try to order people to turn their guns in
and do all of this, people buy into it the first increment.
It'll only be a partial gun ban.
But once you've learned to bend over, as the authoritarians do it,
you will give into the whole thing.
I've looked at the profile.
I predicted quietly to my crew last night we'd have a hack attack today.
I know the enemy, and I'm telling you, they are guaranteed
that they're black-hop, globalist squads looking to bomb federal buildings,
attack more schools, just as I predicted in the weeks before this,
that there is something big going on here.
And if they can't find Prozac heads who are violent,
who they can't wind up, they'll set one up who fits the profile
and run an operation.
And I don't think the students are involved.
I don't think the teachers are involved.
I don't think the sheriff's department's involved.
There were drills that day, drills weeks before.
We've had the students on.
Something weird happened.
And it's very easy to run a false flag where you do this
and then set up a mental patient who's been under state care.
30-second plug.
We had to end the toothpaste special because it's about to sell out
to a bunch of others, but we got a bunch of new specials, 50% off.
But those are on items that are about to sell out as well.
Like DNA force, 67% off.
I'll explain why we're going to do that later.
Knockout, 33% off.
Trueway protein, 50% off.
Survival shield, 25% off.
And at these deals, you've got to buy a lot of products to fund their operation.
Just shop with the good guys, commit to go to our store,
get high quality products, and we will continue to fight and win.
But I'm telling you, we just got a beachhead.
The main assault is now.
Introducing FloraLife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome,
not all probiotics are made the same.
FloraLife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system
that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines
for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics,
so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic,
then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
FloraLife supports your body's core, where you need it most,
including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining, and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
FloraLife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care,
and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of FloraLife probiotics today.
That's InfoWarsLife.com
and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force
that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins,
whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy,
this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there,
and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at InfoWarsLife.com.
What do you do for your family? And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018.
The evidence is overwhelming.
It's all hidden in plain view, and now the Democrats are saying
they've launched the last battle of the Civil War against America.
States all across the country with cities are letting MS-13 criminals, murderers,
go free and say they're telling the gangs when the feds are coming so they can kill them,
and that they're ready to resist and that the mayors are ready to go to jail.
We're in the middle of a globalist counter-revolution against our attempted take back.
We got the ball back, but they're trying to create a fumble,
and they're trying to get the ball and convert the whole situation
and have their comeback all over the world.
They admit this in their white papers.
Ted Nugent's coming up.
He's been slandered and defamed, saying that, you know, no kids died,
and they were all crisis doctors.
He never said that, but Jimmy Kimmel and all their little slime bags
were talking points out of Chuck E. Schumer's rear end,
and he admittedly gets all his orders from him.
They are just in a full court press trying to boycott, shut down the gun industry,
not let them do credit card business.
That is how you put somebody in a gulag.
That's how you violate somebody's rights and shut them down for persecution.
I mean, that is the classic.
So that's coming up with so much more, and I'm going to get to the clip
of the teacher and the description and the other youth saying there were army men in there.
What does it mean, real army?
That's going to be, Jones claims the army did the shooting.
No, their quote is army men, paramilitary.
So I don't know what happened, but there are banning clips of young people
and teachers and folks saying this.
What does that tell you?
There's good news.
You know, there's things like Michael Savage talking about running for the Senate.
All that stuff's great, but if we don't recognize how serious this is,
then we're in the middle of their violent revolution and call it what it really is.
We're not going to be ready to face it.
Let's go ahead and go to this clip and we'll be back with Ted Nugent.
Some very important people have come to me and said,
Savage, would you like to run as an independent for the state,
you know, for the not state, for the U.S. Senate and the state of California
against the esteemed Diane Feinstein?
Now you may say you don't have a ghost of a chance with all those illegal aliens
with all that union money with no press on your side.
How could you, David, run against the Goliath of Feinstein?
So I'm going to ask you the audience.
If I ran, if I left radio, I'd have to leave radio to run.
And I ran as an independent for the U.S. Senate against Diane Feinstein.
What do you think the vermin on the left and the newspaper in each city
owned by the vermin on the left, the state Democrat machine is very powerful?
What would they say about me?
Jen, get ready for the firestorm because here it comes.
Pulling down the Ford for 24 years this March.
God, it's a month, 24 years in the radio business.
And I am younger than Diane Feinstein.
That's right.
And I, um, I've been asked by a number of very powerful, important people
to run as an independent for the U.S. Senate in the state of California.
And I'm contemplating whether I really want to leave what I've worked for all my life
and, you know, role in the mud because politics is the dirtiest business on the planet.
And I can't say very good things about politicians with very rare exception.
I'm just probably not cut out for it.
But then again, that's what the people want.
They want an independent who is not a politician or a lawyer to go out there
and represent their interests.
And I will say again that if you think the whole state of California is like
what Nancy Pelosi represents, you're mistaken.
I've lived in the state since 1974.
And of course there are large volumes of drug addicted hippies in high places.
Of course there are large numbers of drug addicted hippies running the newspapers
and the television programs.
I know what they would try to say about me.
But I can guarantee you they'd have a lot of trouble trying to prove what they say about me
because it's all false.
So what would I run on?
If I ran as a U.S. Senate candidate in the state of California,
it'd be very simple, borders language culture.
Same as I've been talking about right here on the show.
Nationally, statewide, same thing.
Seal the borders.
English as the only language permitted if you're going to vote in the state.
And culture.
I'll let you figure what that is.
While shooting hoops, the last thing I want is sweaty armpits
making my hands slippery and the ball wet.
That's why I recommend EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free deodorant.
Even though it's unscented, it's effective at combating strong body odor
and I don't have to worry about any unwanted allergic reactions to my sensitive skin.
Whether you're a guy or gal, the last thing you want to be worried about is your deodorant.
No petroleum-based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty-free.
Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free natural deodorant
available at InfoWarsStore.com.
We've been actually talking about that for a long time. Let me answer the question.
You can shout me down when I'm finished, but let me answer Emma's question.
It is not federal law for states to report convictions to the NICS system.
It's not federally mandated.
That's the big question and I wish that this network had also covered this more
as other media networks would have covered it.
That's a huge, wait a second, wait a second.
You guys, if I can't hear her statement, I can't come up with a rebuttal. Please.
They then began yelling burn her, burn her, burn her.
And she said if security hadn't gotten her out of there, they would have attacked her
because they were running up on the stage.
They have billboards that say kill Republicans.
They have hashtag hunt Republicans.
We're about to go to Ted Nugent to give us his take on this.
Now, if you give into this bullying that the media is engaged in trying to ban the NRA
from being able to engage in commerce, banning gun shops from having bank accounts,
that's Nazi Germany when you cut people off because they're a class of people
or they have a right, that is what America is all about.
And Mexico's got 150,000 dead people and they have no second amendment
because only the criminals have the guns and the corrupt government.
But not because of these arguments anymore.
The Democrats know that.
And speaking right now is the president.
I'm getting transcripts of it as it comes in, but I watched it during the break.
And he said, nobody talks about the families and the survivors.
But I told the NRA, I just met with them, we've got to do something.
And we know they've already floated it.
21 to buy rifles.
Then it means young people can't even shoot.
That's what they're going.
They've always wanted to kill youth shooting, kill the culture, make a taboo, make it evil.
And they're talking about other things when this individual, if he was the shooter,
because there's questions of other students, not before they put on the news,
but before they push, but the ones we've had on, the ones that are on local news,
they say over and over and over again that it just makes your head spin
that there were multiple shooters and there were like 10 police cars lined up
outside during the shooting and there were men in camo, multiple men inside,
picking up dead bodies during the shooting and then they're putting dead bodies
in the backs of cars during the shooting.
And we have video of confirming what the students say.
I don't know what happened there.
I don't know, but all the news has said that Ted Nugent, Alex Jones,
Donald Trump Jr. said nobody died and they're all crisis actors that came in
and the whole thing's fake.
There's no video of us saying that.
We have simply said people report multiple shooters and why is it four kids,
three young people, their adults, seniors in high school on television,
out of 3,000.
And for that, they're banning our YouTube channel.
We've been hacked today.
So we can't actually show you what we're saying or what eyewitnesses are saying
because they're pulling the videos and trying to block our site
so they can lie about what we've done.
So we're at a historic crossroads right now.
If we give into this intimidation,
every time there's a shooting, which will continue out of 330 million people,
even though it's a rare occurrence, a mass shooting,
every time it'll be more of our rights taken away.
They've now admitted in the New York Times and NBC,
they want to repeal the Second Amendment, at least they're being honest.
So joining us for the rest of the hour is the one, the only Ted Nugent of TedNugent.com.
He used to have 20 million followers on Facebook,
but they deleted it down to 3 million like they did us.
So the left has all their fake bots. We have real fans.
And he joins us right now.
One of the probably the most staunch living defender of the Second Amendment.
They've been calling for him to be kicked off the NNRA board.
Jimmy Kimmel, who gets his talking points from Chuck E. Schumer,
after they defamed him and slandered him and said that he said no one died.
Lying pig creatures. I mean, it's incredible.
It's incredible.
So he's one of the few people in the same boat as I,
where they are trying to just absolutely intimidate and shut everybody up right now.
We're at such a historic crossroads.
You agree with me, Ted, that if we back off now and start giving in,
when the issue is the stand down by the sheriff's department, this leftist,
this Islamist sympathizer,
what does the king of the defense of the Second Amendment have to say?
Well, Alex, number one, greetings from a we the people perspective.
I appreciate the opportunity to speak truth, logic, and common sense with Alex Jones.
And thank you for everything that you do.
But believe me, mom and pop America, my blood brothers across the heartland,
all across this great country, especially here in the Republic of Texas,
we are well aware of the orgy of fake news, the runaway dishonesty,
the abject hatred that comes from the left.
The left isn't bully.
It's pure terrorism when they can get away with such nasty lies.
And particularly for those of us who really want to save innocent lives,
especially as the father of seven and the grandfather of 14.
And I've had my Ted Nugent camp for kids where we've graduated 16,000 young Americans
with hunter safety and marksmanship and safe gun handling and real conservation
and a clean and sober be the best that you can be lifestyle.
I'm directly connected with the youth of America, even though I'm pushing 70 right now.
But believe me, Alex, what you espouse, what you state, when you speak, when I speak,
we know that Jimmy Kimmel is a liar.
These punks on the left, they cannot debate me.
They've tried in the past and every time they try with their nonsense and their fake news
and their dishonesty, I crush them.
You want all the debates with Piers Morgan, all of them?
I've never lost a debate because that's why they don't invite me back again.
But the bottom line is the truth and logic and common sense that you're talking about here.
America knows that.
You've got your dumbing down of America, which is well represented by the idiots in the media
and most of academia and our own government.
Our own government is completely out of control.
Certainly the hypocrites of Hollywood who have machine gun toting armed guards
but want to ban you and I from owning a squirrel rifle.
I'm just glad that we're able to get the truth out because they keep claiming
that weapons of war are used in these shootings.
Lie, there were no assault weapons ever used in any of these shootings
because no society would send the heroes of our military into battle with a semi-automatic weapon.
An assault weapon is a fully automatic machine gun never used in any of these shootings.
I mean, they can't even get the nomenclature props. They call them clips.
There's no clips. Nobody used a clip.
The American people, as you said, know that.
I sense and I see this as the total assault trying to attack gun owners saying,
kill the NRA, lying about you, lying about everybody else.
These four horsemen of the anti-gun takeover
are the only ones we see on the news, fake town hall meetings.
It's on. CNN calling for me to be taken off the air for us to be banned
and then filing complaints.
They've killed our live streaming on YouTube.
CNN trying to kill the First Amendment. What do we do?
And we come back in a few minutes and we'll talk about Trump.
We'll have some of the statements here.
He's still speaking a lot better than Hillary.
But this idea that, oh, we've got to do something
and implying that gun owners, having their rights restricted,
you know, is the issue. What about all the warnings?
What about him being on government-issued drugs?
What about the stand down of the sheriff's department?
Bingo, bingo, ditto, ditto, ditto.
I know how we can win this. We did it in November of 2016.
And, Michael, I know exactly how to do this.
I know how to get Michael Savage elected by real red state Californians.
I know how to do this and we'll talk about it when we come back.
Absolutely. We got one minute until we go to break.
Ted, do you agree with me, though, that this is the strongest,
most focused, most deceptive attack and the bullying
and trying to get the banks to not let the NRA,
and if they go down, everybody else, to not be able to engage in commerce?
That is Nazi-level racketeering.
That's what you do before you arrest the people.
Absolutely. Let me make it perfectly clear.
I'm on the board of directors of the National Rifle Association
for the last 26 or so years,
and I represent Mom and Pop America, real working-hard, playing-hard Americans
in the asset column who know that we have a gift of life from God
and a moral obligation and a constitutional guarantee
to keep and bear arms, to defend our life.
Anybody that doesn't get that might as well call, you know,
and see if Michael Morkin gives us any points on...
I agree.
Stay there. Ted Nugent on the other side.
This is their main assault. This is it.
They know that we're kicking their butt politically,
so they're going to come in here and go after everything.
We do. Try it again.
We'll see you next time.
Ever since ID Stronghold created RFID Blocking Wallet Technology
over 10 years ago, major designer brands have tried to create their own versions.
But do they really work?
We let real people test designer brand RFID Blocking Wallets
using the same rigorous testing ID Stronghold Wallets go through.
So how did the designer brands do?
I expected notable brands to perform well,
and I was pretty surprised to see that it was not fully protective.
Wallets by those big brand names that I like and trust
don't really do what they're advertising that they do.
Get a Stronghold on your credit cards, license, and other critical data
with ID Stronghold Wallets.
Other RFID Blocking Wallets simply aren't the same.
ID Stronghold just outperformed them in every aspect.
I would definitely recommend ID Stronghold Wallets to my friends and family.
Check the label. If it doesn't say it's an ID Stronghold, it's not.
I'm very impressed with the ID Stronghold Wallet.
Get the most trusted brand in RFID Blocking Wallets
and protect yourself from electronic pickpocketing.
ID Stronghold dot com.
Not a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2,
SuperMail Vitality and so many others,
with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multi-vitamin mineral products,
and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived
or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure,
and rest-secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients,
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
So, America is founded on the Second Amendment.
So-called semi-automatic assault rifles, which they aren't as technology rightfully pointed out,
NRA board member, are involved in 2% of federal crime statistics from the entire nation.
The FBI reports 2% of gun crime is what you call an assault rifle.
It's handguns and shotguns that criminals generally use their by-nose.
But they use mass shootings which are flat since the 1990s, they're still tragedies.
They never report on Mexico's crime rate that's 10 times, you know, 150,000 dead.
They never report on all the millions of times guns are used to stop crime.
They never show nationally the guy trying to rape women at a liquor store
and attacking them and then, you know, the women shoot them.
They never show that. That'll not be on the local news.
And when you try to share that on Facebook or Google, they ban it because they don't want you to see that.
So Ted Nugent's here, NRA board member, they want him off the board.
They want to have a cucked operation.
Trump, who I'd give an A-plus, is like saying, well, maybe we'll stop up to 21.
They're still going to get him illegally like Lanza did.
So this is crazy. What we need is this sheriff.
I'm sure you've seen the clips. He says it's not his responsibility if his deputies are cowards and stood down.
He's that arrogant. We'll play the clip in the next segment.
And then you've got these admitted talking point young people out there that if we say, hey, you're spouting Democrat talking points,
they lie and say that we're bullying children and that nothing happened.
It's just next level. So you were also getting into solutions, how we fight back.
I mean, this is obviously the big one. Ted Nugent.
Well, number one, Alex, ditto, ditto, ditto. Thank you very much.
But here's the most important battle cry of all.
We proved it in November of 2016.
Every American that's listening to us right now needs to be a member of the National Rifle Association.
That's job one and not just being a member ourselves, but we need to sign up our friends, our coworkers, people at school and church,
at the barbecue, our families. We need to make the National Rifle Association,
which is a grassroots organization of families who believe in self-defense and believe in the right to keep and bear arms.
It's a self-evident truth. It's not a view. It's not an assumption.
We need to make sure that everybody we know are members of the NRA because the fake news, their number one target, is freedom.
Their number one target is the National Rifle Association.
The National Rifle Association is rock solid in the asset column of America with law enforcement, law and order, and legal gun owners across this land.
So that's number one. But let's get right to what you and I first talked about many years ago.
As horrible as Saul Alinsky Nazi oppressive tyrannical left as they are, nothing compares to the curse of apathy in our own ranks.
We didn't vote for John McCain because he was a destitute for nothing.
We didn't vote for Mitt Romney because he brought a doily to a grenade fight.
Everybody listening. You need to get everybody you know, families, friends, coworkers, people at church or school, everybody in your life
to make sure we do what we did in November of 2016 and vote for Republicans and put the pressure, we the people pressure,
for constitutional accountability from our elected employees.
What I just outlined, Alex, is the fix. It's how you fix the hatred from the left.
It's how you fix the dishonesty of the media and the dumbing down of academia.
If we, the people who know better, actually do our job in this experiment self-government, we can have anything we want,
which we prove we got a status quo crusher in November 2016 when a non-politician came in, Donald J. Trump,
and represents the real working hard, playing hard families of this country.
And if we don't do that, we get what we deserve.
That's right. It's ours to lose. We just won the first half.
They've come out of the bunkers, cheating, lying, stealing.
They've got 20 players on the field. We've got 11, but it doesn't matter. We've got justice on our side.
And if we get aggressive and don't get into a backpedaling with all their fake guilting,
when the left funded the Arab Spring that killed over a million people,
mainly men, women, and children who were not radical Muslims, they have blood all over their hands.
They're the corrupt ones.
The Democrats came out, as you know, on CBS News, Cheryl Daconson,
shipped guns into Mexico to blame the Second Amendment. They got caught running that false flag.
So we need to be in their face offensively.
And the president's doing a great job talking about the sheriff standing down and,
why weren't the warning signs listened to?
Well, that's the point.
All the default warning signs aren't listened to, and the cops have been out to his house dozens of times
for him saying, I'm going to kill everybody.
It's not even the cops fault on those cases because the prosecutors didn't do anything.
And this guy's an adult 19 when this goes down.
So it's just crazy to blame. It's like if somebody runs over somebody with a car.
When the Jihadi ran over folks in New York a few months ago, they didn't blame the manufacturer of the truck.
It's just crazy. What do we do to get back in their face to get aggressive in the face of this Soros?
Soros is funding the Women's March. The Women's March is funding these walkouts.
And I see Sheriff Clark, everybody going, it looks like Soros is behind this.
You don't just organize this overnight.
Soros is admittedly funding it. So we need to get out there and point this out.
Well, a lot of our good guys, the conservatives, the NRA members,
there's a lot of shouting and fist pumping up the television.
But when it comes time to do our job as Americans, we don't get out there and vote.
We don't put pressure on elected officials.
You know, Alex, I'm just a guitar player, but every elected employee in America knows exactly what the Nugent family demands,
what we expect from them, constitutional accountability.
Americans don't raise enough hell. Americans don't spotlight enough cockroaches with their elected employees.
And then in so many instances in California, we're talking about the great Michael Savage running for office,
I know real California. California is a solid red state.
You only have high crime blue smudges where Democrats and liberals ruin everything.
But if you look at the map of America, we are rock solid red, except for liberal, Democrat, high crime, blue smudges of hell.
So those people in all those red zones, they've got to get out there and raise more hell and vote.
What I did in Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, Alex, is I wallpaper and carpet bombed the media.
And I scolded the licensed hunters, 800,000 plus.
And by the way, they know at the White House, it was probably Ted Nugent and, of course, Drudge and others,
but that took us over the top in those former Democrat, purple states.
I mean, and you just, I mean, I know, I talked to folks who were involved.
You were working 16 hours a day because you get it.
The globalists want to break our will. They want to conquer us.
And taking our guns is the ultimate coup d'tat. We are dealing with a known group of criminals.
You know, I experienced it in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Of course, we all know that that's why we have President Trump at the White House.
And I, in the media, I was on every talk show and every news show and every rock station
and did interviews nonstop for months and months and months in those three pivotal states.
And I explained how embarrassing it is to qualify as a reliably blue state.
In those three states where you have more licensed deer hunters than the rest of the country combined.
And I'm telling you, Alex, it was as easy as getting those licensed hunters as a voting block.
The teamsters and the union guys that have been lied to and scammed by their union line,
fake news, liberal Democrat leadership, we finally got that voting block active.
And I'm telling you, Alex, 50 states, we could do it in 50 states.
Even if the real Californians in red California, if they just went to the polls,
we could unseat the lying Diane Feinstein who was on the road.
Stay right there. Her own party's throwing her overboard.
In fact, exactly. She can't even get the nomination.
We'll be back to talk about the globalists have their storm. We have ours.
And we're launching the counter-offensive for America right now.
It's a no-brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors.
Pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon?
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
faketv.com
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com.
Select your favorite product or products.
Click on auto-ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win.
And with the new auto-ship feature at infowarslife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto-ship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com.
Shipping on orders above $50.
And all out-of-stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose,
itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet,
just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress,
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block.
Available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free.
Triple eight, two five, three, three one, three nine.
Live from Austin, Texas in the heart of the resistance,
it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
That's Ted Nugent, I still believe.
Ladies and gentlemen, I've got some good news here though, and I've got some bad news.
Look at this article that's on DrudgeReport.com from infowars.com,
it's also on newswars.com, they've been massively hacking our site,
the worst ever bringing it up and down.
CNN again called for us to be shut down, filed complaints on us saying we bullied their PR agents,
and that's what these four kids are, these four young people,
and then the videos they took down were actually a by-witness saying multiple shooters
and that the sheriff's department stood down.
I didn't know if that was true or not, but it was on local news, I was playing clips of it,
then I had some of the students on saying the same thing,
and then it makes me very suspicious they then took these videos down and lied about what it was,
and then I'm watching CNN and they're like, yeah, Alex Jones and Ted Nugent said nobody died,
and then the telltale sign is they don't show you.
Remember back when they had attacked you for 20 minutes but have you on for two?
They don't even do that anymore, they just lie.
But here's the good news, Paul Joseph Watson article,
Google searches for buy a gun, hit all-time high, interest in firearms soars after part one shooting.
There is a graph going back to 2002, and again Google only started in 1999,
so it goes back to the beginning of when they had a graph,
and it is, you guys pull up the color version of that for me,
it's just a little bit blurred from my print out here, there it is,
yeah blow that up for me or scroll down where it's got the full graph,
but that appears to be ten times what it's ever been before.
It's at least six, seven times the amount of gun interest we've ever seen in buying a gun,
the term buy a gun, so here's what's happening.
Every time these authoritarians push and really show us who they are,
people then wake up to how serious it is,
and I showed the Bloomberg article earlier, we'll put it back on screen,
you guys print me a copy of that, thanks, where they said the Democrats are hoping for apathy,
and that they think they saw apathy at CPAC, and that the crowd wasn't as big,
and the people seem to think they were winning.
Folks, we've only awakened the sleeping globalist system,
and we're going to beat them, but as Ted Nugent just said,
who is the leading Second Amendment advocate in the country, in the world,
for the right to defend ourselves, and again, when he says,
you've got to work hard, imagine letting them win,
because they know we've already woken up to a great extent,
so they're not going to stop now.
They're pushing to ban free speech, to not let gun stores operate,
to shut down the NRA, they're saying shut it down, kill the NRA.
When people are saying we're going to kill you with billboards,
and let's go hunt Republicans on and on and on,
CNN said that the guy that shot Scalise just thought he was a monster.
Remember when cops would get shot with Black Lives Matter pushing it,
and Antifa and CNN would say,
well, you know the cops are bad, they better learn.
This is an intimidation, Antifa,
all this scum protected by blue states and blue cities,
and it is the cancer, and it's crazy,
Ted Nugent, you've got the floor I'm ranting here,
let's get into a path to victory, Operation Paul Revere 2012,
we know they're censoring, we know they're coming,
and purging thousands of mainline veterans YouTube sites,
Facebook sites, YouTube sites, thousands that's being reported.
There's a major purge like we've never seen,
just saying if you've got a gun site,
even sites that advertise for law enforcement,
they're just banning, I'm just outright,
just saying we don't have a right to exist.
They're trying to kill our culture,
they're trying to kill the heart of American culture,
and they're trying to kill our speech,
which is the First Amendment.
I mean, this is true authoritarianism.
It's so naked, it's so obvious, what do we do?
Well, I'm lucky, you know,
number one, I'm on the Alex Jones show,
so I know that I'm speaking to people that have a heart and a soul
and a brain and know how to use it,
but this social media phenomenon is quite interesting too, isn't it?
I have somewhere in the neighborhood of 36 million Facebookers,
and I have people that work for the government
and that are these high tech, you know, mad scientists
of this internet technology,
and they acknowledge that Facebook tries to control my numbers
down to three and a half million,
when in fact, on a recent post, I had over 20 million responses.
So we know the real reason, the point is,
is that Alex Jones and Ted Nugent and Common Sense and Logic
is alive and well out there,
and we prove that when we truly do unite,
when the conservatives, when the constitutionalists,
when the Common Sense families of this country truly unite
and get to the polls,
what President Trump said at CPAC
is the most important battle cry of all.
Don't let apathy open the door
to more America-hating liberal Democrats.
We have got to get everybody in our lives
that knows this solid whiskey
of salt and freedom in the American dream.
We've got to out-vote them.
And as I said before, Alex,
we watched the dumbing down of America
shortly after World War II,
where our so-called education system
didn't educate our children,
certainly didn't educate me properly.
I had to learn on my own
what the schools kept away from me.
But now we have a movement
because of the horrors, the curse of Barack Obama
and his gun-running attorney general
and his meeting Bill Clinton,
new attorney general and the lowest learners
and the Susan Rice scam artists
of the Left and Democrat Party.
They're our greatest ally
because they are so vile.
They are so criminal and corrupt
and so abusive of power
that otherwise complacent apathetic Americans
finally woke up and we had to stop the whore.
That's H-O-R-R-O-R
of Hillary Clinton in November of 2016.
And when we unite, Alex,
we can get whatever we want.
But I'm going to repeat it.
Start by making sure everybody in your life
is a member of the National Rifle Association
and call your elected employees
and tell them you're an NRA member
and you can't ban evil.
You've got to pay attention to warning signs from evil
and stop evil.
And then regarding the Liberal Democrat
Sheriff Israel down there in Broward County,
I know for a fact, I've studied Virginia Tech
and Colin Biden's Sandy Hook.
I've studied San Bernardino and Aurora
and Parkland.
You know, Alex, that it had nothing to do with AR-15s.
If the AR-15 was never invented,
all of these monsters would have done their evil
with a 12-gauge shotgun, which, by the way,
is far more deadly in confined quarters
with no one resisting,
there's nothing more deadly than a goose gun.
But these idiots in the media
will not tell you the difference between a clip
in a magazine and a weapon of war
and a standard modern sporting rifle.
So thank God you're doing it and I'm doing it
and then Michael Savage is doing it
and Sean Hannity is doing it
and Tucker Carlson is doing it,
but we the people have to rise up and never ever again
allow Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama
to tromple on this Constitution
and the freedoms of this country
are true to start with the First and Second Amendments.
Ted, isn't it weird that
Israel's so arrogant,
I've got a bunch of clips, since you mentioned it,
we'll play a couple on the other side,
saying I'm doing a fantastic job, it's not my responsibility
and my deputies don't do anything,
and then as usual,
because the media advertises it's a Bushmaster,
it's an AR-15,
even though those guns statistically, as you know,
I mean, it's not even one-tenth of 1%,
just that particular type,
the so-called assault rifles 2%,
the loons always go get
that one
because that's what the media's
advertised you shoot a school up with.
Well, you know, I just
wrapped up a CBS television
interview here in Texas
and I took my 12-gauge
goose gun and I took
one of my AR-15s and I shot
a paper tiger with the AR-15
and then I shot the paper tiger with
the goose gun and when no one
is resisting and you're in close quarters,
there's nothing more devastating than
a 12-gauge shotgun with three and a half.
Yeah, if you're going to kill one person
and they don't know you're coming, you kill somebody with a 12-gauge shotgun.
And I've studied all these shootings,
you know, the casual cadence,
the slow reloading
because nobody could shoot back,
Alex,
unarmed and helpless
is unarmed and helpless.
We need to ban
zones because that's the welcome
map for evil.
The president knows that, you know that,
we the people know that, now our
elected employees have got to be
bombarded. That's right, they've got to be
bombarded. They're pushing back hard
against our second amendment, we've got to fight hard.
The media puts a big neon sign
pointed at schools and churches, gun-free.
Go here, psychos, go here.
Mike and Arizona are on the air worldwide.
Go ahead. Oh, Alex,
you can rant any day of the week. Thank you, sir,
for doing what you do and being a patriot
and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas
as well.
And as a long-time InfoWars
listener, I want to say thanks
for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotruce Selenium to Super Blue
toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans. The Super Blue is awesome
and thank you so much, Alex,
for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that
for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots,
help our other
countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on
and if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves,
we can take our country back.
Introducing
Selforce
by InfoWars Life.
Selforce
focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95%
of your energy. They are your body's
cellular engines.
Selforce helps promote your cellular energy
production by supporting mitochondria.
Much like a cellular engine overhaul
because when your mitochondria don't run
at 100% efficiency
then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists
agree that aging is most likely
caused by cellular damage
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants
found in Selforce are some of the most
powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant,
the better its ability to scavenge
for these reactive oxygen species
and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt
with Selforce from InfoWars Life.
Head to
InfoWarsLife.com
or call
1-888-253-3139
I'm so excited
the new product
at InfoWarsLife.com
in a glass bottle, two months servings
filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top
the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain
pill, a new tropic
that doesn't have any stimulants in it
but boy does it stimulate
its beyond that. Quite frankly
I just went off
what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people
$100, $200
for the formulae
and I came up with our own formulae
working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America
120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen
you add the preglinone to it
which is the precursor to all the hormones
that somebody has to have to even
make the hormones in your glands
it is amazing.
Red pill now available
at InfoWarsStore.com
and your purchase of the operation.
Over a year in the making
produced by one of the top organic firms
in the country that if you want
proven studies and documentation
I'm going to speak for hours
this is on the files I have here
of what this is proven to do
this is the ultimate
immune system boost
for this time of year, anytime of the year
but immune wall is incredible
and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good
are $70, $80
it's a great deal at $39
immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf
and so much more
it is concentrated
you need to go read what is in here
the mushroom blend of the most expensive
highest quality mushrooms that just
incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend
this is the next level
it's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall
I think it's beyond seasonal
beta-glucan, olive leaf and more
immune wall, InfoWarsStore.com
InfoWarsLive.com or CrippleLate
1, 2, 5, 3, 3, 1, 3, 9
music
speaking of fighting the globalist
I sell books, videos, t-shirts
water filtration, air filtration
a lot of accessories for firearms
and also fishing and hunting supplies
and whatever the coolest little cookstove is
or whatever the coolest deal
to jump your car is
and we're always updating it or whatever the best
water filtration is, whatever the best
nonzium or earlum seeds are
we sell it at InfoWarsStore.com
and it's how I got over 100 people working here
I got 30-something writers
and reporters and we are reaching
tens of millions of people
a week very
conservatively
I'm talking about actually listening or watching
I don't mean just come by the cider
there's a lot of discussions on the site
Ted Nugent was just talking about
is very well documented
I've looked at his Facebook myself
when it had 28 million
I remember when it went up to 30-something millions
he's been coming on for 15 years
I remember just 5-6 years ago
and they dialed it down to 3 million
well not just what he said
his military sources told him
it's now come out, Project Veritas
he's so busy defending the Second Amendment
he probably hadn't seen it
on video
for new listeners you can pull it up
that they dialed conservatives, Christians
libertarians, veterans groups, gun groups
down about 95%
and we dialed back
36 million to 3 million
that's basically 90-something percent
so there's a real war
when you share the videos, when you share the articles
especially to new people it's changing the world
you know my buddy that made King of the Hill
and gave us some butthead and all that
he's more of a libertarian conservative in Hollywood
of course Mike Judge
we've gone out multiple times taking the whole cast of TV shows
and within two hours they're all pro-gun
a bunch of Hollywood folks, a lot of them well known
it's that easy to convert them
he said it's his favorite thing to do
he's got a ranch north of Austin
so we have to recruit
they brainwashed our kids in school like Ted was saying
we've got to go out to adults and others
and deprogram them
but it takes financial support as well
Google, Facebook, Twitter are trying to ban us
they're blocking us, CNN wants us banned
we've got a lot of great products
the supplements ladies and gentlemen
we sold out of the fluoride free toothpaste
I told you at the sales price
but we've got the great
multivitamin mix
we've got our high quality way
we've got a whole bunch of the highest quality products out there
I'm doing 50% off
on five different products right now
one of them is a loss leader
one of them is a loss leader, it's still selling good
but we're coming out with an updated formula of it
DNA Force is 56% off
in FullWarsStore.com, in FullWarsLife.com
and it is your commitment
buying the products that makes all of this possible
so again, I salute you all
look at that 96 rating there on
DNA Force
now back to Ted Nugent
he wanted to say a little bit more about Sheriff Israel
and some of the bizarre statements
I may not have wasted our time playing him
we've all heard it, he's done a fantastic job
that
he's saying and something's going on here
and he's very arrogant like other leftists
and then I want to get into a few other issues
here with Ted Nugent
TedNugent.com
tell me what you know about this guy
you've worked a lot of law enforcement in Florida
well I've been a sworn sheriff deputy
in Lake County, Michigan since 1984
and I work closely
with law enforcement all across this country
I've actually conducted federal raids
with the US Marshals and the FBI
and ATF and DEA here in Texas
and I think I've got some like 10 felony arrests
to my credit during the falcon raids
but my point is
is that I'm deeply appreciative and respectful
of the heroes of law enforcement
and all my fellow
sheriffs and all my fellow law enforcement friends
down in Florida know that
the sheriff Israel is the left wing
Hilary Loving
Liberal Democrat
who got the same directive as all the
agencies across this country
Alex after Columbine
that never again should law enforcement
wait outside while the shooting is going on
the directive was clear
and unambiguous
charge the shooting
neutralize
the shooter
and sheriff Israel's deputies
failed to do that
and stood outside Alex
while the shooting was going on
in direct defiance
of the universal North American
law enforcement decree after Columbine
to get in there
and remember
these zombie drugged up
dopey shooters
on every imaginable pharmaceutical
brain ruining chemical
warfare
none of them have tactics
none of them have training
it would be the easiest punk in the world
to neutralize
especially if you're a trained law enforcement officer
and instead of going after the
30 some
to the sheriff Israel's agency
and the three warnings to the
federal bureau of investigation
and who could expect anything
from somebody who goes into the building
this is J. Edgar Hoover over the front
and then they want to ban
AR-15s and let me tell you
Alex if Eugene Stoner
had never invented the
armor light rifle back in the 1950s
the AR-15
if it had never been invented
do you think for a minute
these evil monsters would have
decided not to shoot anybody
because all they had was
maybe a Ruger wrench rifle
or maybe a 12 gauge goose gun
it's absolute insanity
and then you've got
otherwise heroes of law enforcement
who stood outside
Alex
while they're shooting was going on
this is Planet of the Apes
Cuckoo's Nest
Twilight Zone Mad Magazine stuff
we the people are pissed
and then he wants our guns
and then has bizarre arrogance
you only see from leftists
here is Israel saying there's no one in this country
who can keep you safer than I
and then we'll put the next clip
where he says he's not responsible
let's play him back to back
here is the
Outer Limits Twilight Zone
again one who flew over the Cuckoo's Nest
here it is
I don't think there's a man or woman in this county
who's not responsible
and I plan to continue on being the sheriff
as I said
I'm the sheriff
my name's on the door
the people responsible are the ones who took the calls
and didn't follow up on him
as it was with the FBI
as it was with any person
leaders are responsible
for the agency
but leaders are not responsible
for a person
I gave him a gun
I gave him a heart to go in
that's not my responsibility
he has to be removed now
for that insane arrogance statement
he said well we'll do better training
we try as hard as we can
but wow this guy should be sued
or maybe even prosecuted for dereliction of duty
there's good Samaritan laws
you name it
for fraud at least
I guess that's a military issue
but the arrogant statement
it's worth repeating
that the United States Supreme Court
determined many many years ago
that law enforcement agencies in this country
have no legal responsibility
whatsoever
to protect the citizenry
that is so key I forget
that they always say that
we have no responsibility to protect you
that's right and you got guns
I have a right to have them
especially with your wind up toy lunatics
and again Ted there have been these shootings
where Ted control of him
and then he hears AR-15
and then Bushmaster
and that's the one gun the left has picked
to ban all guns
because they can ban all the semi-autos
basically at that point
and it's just really weird that
it shows it's media copycatting
it's always some middle lunatic
on drugs who then thinks
that's what you do
it's like how you become somebody
I wanna be somebody
that's what suggestible fruit tanks do
I mean this is crazy Ted
well thank you
for speaking the truth and thank everybody out there
Alex because I know a lot of your listeners
come to my Facebook we have
literally tens of millions of Facebookers
to celebrate truth and logic and common sense
at my Facebook and that's a great
great campfire to learn how to spread the word
and put constitutional
accountability pressure
on our elected employees to leave
our damn guns alone
we got one minute left at TedNuget.com
Infowars.com is our site
and again listeners I know you know that
but they're trying to block it and if you
the steadfast patriots that have got us this far
will keep getting in the
it's fun to fight isn't it Ted
people think it's like work
I get so much energy when I see these dirt bags lying about us
lying about the second amendment
I mean this is an animating contest
we're going to win this thing
and this is what makes America America
and the left panic because they know
what the real fight's here isn't it
absolutely I'm in the studio right now
recording the greatest record of my life
my band is so good Jason Hardless
on drums and Greg Smith on bass guitar
I get the greatest band and the greatest crew
and the greatest team in the world we have the time of our life
but in between working hard
and playing hard we have to do our
we the people participation
hard we have to keep pressure
on our elected employees and I can tell you
the more you battle the left
the better you feel at night when you go to bed
and the more that I crush the loonies
on the left the cooler my guitar sounds
every day so it really is
beneficial if you fight for your freedoms
then leave your freedoms like you mean it
amen to that you've been busy I've been busy
but you've agreed to do the TV interview
so I'm going to get up there to your place north of Austin
here the next week or so so folks can look for that
Ted Nugent Godspeed I know I need to
let you get back to recording
and then fighting some more for the second
amendment as you texted me you said that
what was the quote you said
keep counter punching and counter punching
this orgy of lies
absolutely it's an orgy of lies
aim small miss small kick ass like you mean it
America that's right
awaken America Ted Nugent Godspeed
there goes Ted Nugent
we'll be back with your calls a ton of
other breaking news what Trump really said
the transcript and more info wars dot com
the new probiotic line developed exclusively by info wars life
after years of research on the human microbiome
not all probiotics are made the same
floor life probiotics use a unique
targeted delivery system that bypasses
the stomach and releases directly into the
intestines for maximum effect
this is critical because stomach acid
kills most probiotics
so if you don't have a targeted delivery
probiotic you can use it
you can use it if you want
you can use it if you want
so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic
then you're cheating your gut health
and your wallet floor life supports
your body's core where you need it most
including digestion regularity
immunity the gut lining and metabolism
did you know that over 80% of your
immune system is located in your gut
that's why increasing gut probiotic
levels is so important for overall
health floor life is sold as a 15
billion probiotic for everyday maintenance
care and a 50 billion probiotic
for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program head to infowarslife.com
to pick up your bottle of floor life
probiotics today that's infowarslife.com
you're listening to the Alex Jones
show
you
you're listening to the Alex Jones
show
you
ladies and gentlemen
we had
Dr. Steve Buchanik who
had a psychological operation for the State Department
and then ran major CIA operations
a lot of famous operations
on the show
and he was saying on David Knight's
program that oh this is a false flag
you know event
and I don't censor what our guests say
but I knew they were going to try to ban
us online saying that's bully
when you have a government that's been known to stage things
or let terrorist attack or let crazies attack
and stand down and then the students
started saying there was a stand down there were multiple
shooters and then CNN
said oh ban that and then misrepresent
what we said and now all
these teachers and other witnesses are coming out saying
the same thing
on like good morning America but they like cut
the interviews and then they pull
them down
I mean I
we might have I don't have a big enough crew but we need
to send investigative reporters
there to really get
with all these students and really you know
sit there and have our own town hall
and not not not sit there and just
vet that they are students
and then just line them up
and see some will be pro guns some will be
anti-gun and like
every student we've been able to randomly talk to said oh yeah
there are multiple shooters everybody said it and they saw
them and you know Cruz was with people while
the shit was going on and then people didn't know
why they said it was him and then I had the local
newscast saying it and I've got witnesses saying
it and then CNN misrepresents
what I'm saying to
get YouTube to remove it
and now
info wars has been hacked and attacked
specifically trying to bring that down today we're able
to get the site back up
black students Hispanic students
white students all articulate
same exact and now teachers saying
similar things
I don't know what's going on
so Pachennic was coming on about
other issues but he wants to get into it
and he's there in Florida
and I know he's got a lot of sources
and I remember Pachennic came on right after 9-11
he said no it was a stand down
you know criminal elements the government did it
it's actually a plan to
allow the Islamists to expand
that's not a crazy thing but you've seen it happen
and now it's in the 28 pages it's all there
but it's just like man we've got some real
criminals embedded in government
that doesn't mean
Trump's involved it doesn't mean that
you know that the average cops
involved or average federal agent it means
the criminals are there
and when we go man there's only four kids
we're hearing from
instead of 3,000
or the other 2,900
and whatever
the media just flips
the controlled media and
now Hogg
every day is on like dozens
I see dozens of clips
and he walks out and you can tell
when somebody's doing a script
or has been coached
and maybe he's in the acting class
and stuff maybe he just as an actor
has his own thoughts and he's just getting them together
but they're an exact democratic party
talking points
but I have a right to say that he appears to be coached
he's a young adult he's a senior
that's what they're saying
you can't even question him even though
he's a major public figure
David Hogg decrees I will not allow
Parkland Sheriff to be blamed for stand down
wow he decrees now
we're not just gonna have to turn our guns in
he decrees
man he's like
Jesus Buddha and everybody else
wrapped into one isn't he
let's go to that clip
I don't personally
I don't want to go back to school until
our legislators at least in Florida passed one bill
just one bill
where either they raised the gun
the age that you can buy any gun in the state
to 21 or they have a universal background
check system in Florida
or literally anything because at this point
why should I have to work if my elected officials
won't work to save my life and everybody around me
David are you
your family the community
are you starting to hear
a
rising concern about how the Broward
sheriffs
operated staying outside
while the shooting was going on
see I'm glad you bring that up and it definitely
is a raising concern that the fact that
they didn't go in but that also brings up two things
one
how can we expect our teachers to step in and take action
if trained security guards that are part
of the sheriff's
department
just keep standing out
we get it
fuel your body with carnivore the new
digestive enzyme product by info wars life
digestive enzymes assist in the digestive
process and increase the bioavailability
of nutrients by breaking down foods into
easily absorbable components
they also help prevent discomfort from a
digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut
digestive enzyme production declines as we age
or is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body
enjoy the full potential of protein rich
foods again you can eat protein heavy foods
now while minimizing
the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets
just one pill with every high protein
meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids
the building blocks to your muscles
carnivore also contains digestive
enzymes to help digest fats
and carbohydrates so you can fully digest
all types of meals don't let a meal
go to waste use carnivore by info wars life
head to info wars life
dot com and secure your bottle now
that's info wars life
dot com
health from austin texas broadcasting
world wide from the info wars dot com studios
if you ever wondered
how you'd see a corporate takeover
of america and how you'd see free speech
phased out you're seeing it right now
they're purging gun shops
major catalogs the inauguration
you can't have credit cards you can't
have banking with us
but if you don't bake a gay couple
their wedding cake you have to pay $500,000
well this is going to be adjudicated
through all the courts and
they're going to lose but see the
globalists are planning on a full
overthrow they're
planning on
overturning the last election saying
it was russian run and then having
homeland security come in democrat controlled
it will never have a new election again that's real
will be like venezuela
so
you can see it
they get
young politico
anti-gun group
seniors
to go out and just decree to everybody
that we're not going back to school
till not one child ever dies again
from gun shots and everyone
out there is guilty for every young person
that's killed except for all the mexicans
killed by fast and furious and
except for all the people killed by the
state and all the globalists funded
arab springs and none of that counts
or brian william saini
shot down in helicopters or hillary
lying or all the carnage the globalist fund
no no no no just the 17
they focus on
and then blame us for
it's asinine
there's a maxim in authoritarianism
where you blame the neighbors
of people or the peers
for what someone commits
and so if somebody fought
back in poland
or in russia
or in czechoslovakia or in france
and shot a german soldier
of a citizen dead
they would kill that person and their whole family
if someone shot a member of the ss
they would normally round up much
of the town put him in a big church
that's their favorite and burn to the ground
just look it up and when
they killed
I forget his german name
his nickname was the blonde beast
the deputy head of the ss
hey drick heiner
I forget
look up the blonde beast's name
I'm having a better memory than this
Einhard Heydrich yes
they killed a couple thousand people
in the town for that
because he looked at the deputy of the gestapo
the vice
of it under
Heinrich Himmler
there he is
and was it in russia or was it in poland
that shot through the neck while driving
to the town let's look up his death
I didn't read about him it was about 15
my memory from order of death
so
that's how all this works
just scroll down
and wikipedia to his death
it'll say which country it was
I remember the death and they killed a couple thousand
and that's how this works
oh 17 teenagers got killed
in a gun free zone the sheriff's department stood down
and they ignored all the warnings
okay let's just blame gun owners
there it is he was critically wounded
in an ambush in Prague okay see
by a british special operations
executive trained team of Czech
and slovak soldiers who'd been sent
to Czechoslovakian government next hall to kill him
in operation anthropa
and then if you go reading through it
uh
see my memories right he was driving in the open
Mercedes that shot through the neck
and they killed a bunch of people in the town but that's just a basic
well down
so again what I'm getting in here is this is what they do
and
oh we're gonna ban
thousands of major youtube sites
some of them with hundreds of millions that are pro veteran
that just show shooting clubs
and we're gonna ban junior
4-8 shooting clubs that's what they're banning
it's just flooding in
it's just they're banning everything basically
and CNN's lobbying to ban us
it goes on and on and on
this is their big assault
this is their big counter offensive
and billboard's saying kill the NRA
and this is what they're doing
and
you've got CNN boss Jeff Zucker calls on
regulars to probe google and facebook
yes yes for allowing
fake news see how they spin it
we want them to probe
fake news and they go jones is fake news
it's like google goes yes CNN
you're god
but that's how they change it from censorship
to hey you're in trouble for not censoring
and of course zucker's out now
it's CNN but it's still going
on autopilot
with his
spiritual son
over there
anderson cooper and all the rest of it
so i wanted to get steve echinick to
pop back in today and then i got roger schoen
come on and talk about this
ze lives in broughard counting
because
i can see a full escalation
of violence and tension
and boycotts and a crescendo
which the left admits
is meant to lead the violent revolution
and the overthrow of the president
and i had always warned
they were trying to train the military and the police
for a leftist takeover and that was now admitted
that came out in my documents just this year
that obama wanted to cause race war
to cause civil war you can look that up
and it was george soros' son captaining that
but the police didn't go along
the military didn't go along it didn't happen
so now
instead
they're trying to just destabilize things so bad
to get big mass movements
of civil unrest going
that i guess trump just gets in line
with him which he's partially
uh...
dealing to a bit
and guys did you get the transcript of trump's
speech today and then
can i have that transcript thanks
so let's get pechinick's quick take on this
because
i'm not intimidated by their censorship
i want to briefly explain this
i hosted both sides of the debate
on sandy hook and i couldn't
100% say that nobody died
even though the school had been closed
then they bulldozed it they had porta potties there in two hours
no emergency choppers videos
of kids going in circles in and out of the building
the same kids nancy grace is there
even the daily show did jokes
about this but didn't point out it was sandy hook
with her saying she's interviewing somebody by satellite
and it's the same cars going in circles
that are roundabout and later admitted she was
she was in a parking lot
somewhere interviewing the person face to face
so she and his famous
for faking stuff so we have a right
back to the gulf war babies out of incubators
all up to talk about it but
i pulled back on sandy hook
because i couldn't say 100%
they took that as weakness and made their whole
democratic party strategy about
saying jones says no one dies you know get rid
of him he's evil shut him down now they're projecting
that on the donald trump donald trump junior
ted new jett myself everybody else
and i was very careful so they
couldn't say that they still went and deleted
my videos with eyewitnesses and multiple
shooters and the sheriff department stand down
broke here the day after now confirmed
then they misrepresent what i put out and do that
but chenic i mean you used to be
involved in overthrowing governments
you can see the buildup is a 21st
century version they admit it's supposed to
lead to this i think trump
and everybody else is a responsibility
to to
to uh still not ready a reason i've been
waiting to go to him is just skype seven problems
what do we do about this
because
they're not gonna stop and i guess the
point i was gonna make to chenic is
maybe he's right
that this is a
total false flag and and and by false
flag you could let the guy you know do it
knowing he's gonna do it that's a false flag
that's a type or it's totally staged this guy
was a patsy you know and of course
real kids got killed but you had other shooters inside
i'm not saying that they're gonna edit that
i'm saying it doesn't add up
they are lying
and they're trying to block videos that
show eyewitnesses on local news
and that we interviewed that have been proven
to be accurate in that there was a stand down
so
i can tell you they're planning
something big they want to bully everybody
they want to keep pushing
soros has put in tens of billions of
dollars into this he's just put you know
a couple hundred million in a year
he has put everything he's reportedly
got in because he wants to mount
america's head of the wall and have a total
authoritarian takeover
because he just wet his
you know whistle on rounding up
all those jews and getting all that money
and bragging about it on 60 minutes
that he wasn't ashamed of it just like the
sheriff isn't ashamed of the stand down and
says people are really safe
and he's the best guy ever and he's wonderful
and he's fantastic everything else
so we're gonna go to break see we got chenic
pop in if not just get them on phone
there's not many problems with the skype
that's kind of the default for three minutes of skype problem
we just go to phone but say la vie
so is life we'll go to break and come back
please remember they did hack attack
and bring us down for about an hour today
it's ongoing they're just seeing
and saying ban alex jones take him
off the internet it's here
so spread the article spread the video
support the local affiliates please
and i appreciate your support and buy products
commit it's great products you need anyways
great specials info or store dot com
info wars life dot com or triple a two
five three three one three nine you
are what holds us up as a standard
against this tyranny you're the reason we're here
you are the info war and i thank you
and i salute you for your support but it's now
critical than ever stay with us
twice as good as what you're using now
earth friendly and natural soaps
your family deserves the best
happiness is five-star soap dot com
why not put your money up the drain
for a change see them at five-star
soap dot com or call
one eight hundred three four zero seven
zero nine one for a catalog calben
soap company can save you thousands
of dollars and give you good old-fashioned
real soaps that are triple
concentrated soaps made from vegetable
and coconut oils see their full
selection of soaps at five-star
soap dot com that's f i v e
star soap dot com or call
one eight hundred three four zero seven
zero nine one for a catalog fully cooked
ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick
meaty center cut presidential bacon
savory and delicious i buy
some i use some i store some
awesome no refrigeration
needed with a ten-year shelf life
nasa pack technology
bacon fully cooked fully
hydrated ready to eat right from the
pack bacon or warm
and serve life-saving ready
to eat bacon ten-year shelf life
bacon ships free at
fully cooked bacon dot com fully
cooked bacon dot com
the answer to being in control of your
own health care is freedom from
insurance become part of a group
of self-pay patients that come together
to share in each other's medical expenses
individual share amounts begin
at one hundred seven dollars a month
and three hundred forty seven for families
choose from three health sharing programs
holistic treatment may be eligible for
sharing see guidelines discount
programs available for dental vision and
pharmacy go to liberty on call
dot org that's liberty on
call dot org
matt and ohio you're on the
ear another matt go ahead yeah hey listen
i just wanted to say real quick i'm a
long time listener of uh in fours
and i i just wanted to say that the
t-shirts that you guys are offering
are absolutely fantastic and that
really is a great way to deal with
this battle in the info war might seem
like a simple thing but they
particularly these slogan t-shirts
that you guys got up right now are
absolutely amazing well thank you my
favorite new one uh is the
don't tread on me but said it says won't
tread on me and it's a big day glow
snake gads and snake and then it's got
the american flag info wars dot com on
the right arm i mean that's a great way
just to meet like-minded people
uh and spread the word and also
exercise free speech and the newest
one is trigger warning t-shirt
trigger warning t-shirt
which is the symbol of a trigger
with a yield sign and then info wars
dot com on the back that is the
new share of the mind available
exclusively at info wars store dot com
info wars wife
is bringing you a breakthrough in modern
medicine we have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory
health and normal breathing
this is pollen block
in the 1960s researchers in France notice
that people who ate certain quail eggs
from specific farms experienced
less seasonal distress symptoms
like running nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production
that against studying the effects
in public trials in their public
trials now we are introducing
the fruit of the research a fast
acting chewable tablet
just two tablets at the first
sign of seasonal distress and fast
acting pollen block starts working
in about 15 minutes to help alleviate
seasonal distress enjoy
the air you breathe naturally with fast acting
pollen block available now
at info wars life dot com
or by calling toll free triple a
two five three three one
three nine
you're listening to the Alex
Jones show
you
there is a concerted
effort
to demonize not just the
second amendment but anyone who is
defending it and to then lie about them
and have them de-platformed this is
the Chinese
communist model that Paul
Watson wrote about four years ago
that is now all over the news
where it's called a Chinese
social media score
where it ties into your job, your work
your snail mail, your social networks
and if you
spout pro-communist Chinese
rhetoric
bots watch you
through an algorithm humans
also fine tune it and then you get a higher
score
if you criticize in any way
or aren't enthusiastic even about companies
you name it it goes down
if you criticize the government anyway
you're banned from electronic
commerce and in a digital society
that's like putting somebody in a
concentration camp
coming to America China reduces credit score
for obedient citizens
2015
he wrote about it a year before as well but that's one of the
second articles now
I went on to say this is the plan
because I read what Silicon Valley says
I track them
there's a story here
that is so massive that when I read this
last night
I couldn't believe it
and then I saw it in Reuters today kind of a
whitewash but I read
what Apple actually stated
and again this ties into everything
see I have an issue I tend to give you
how we first told you about it
and then
what they say it's going to do
instead of doing what mainstream media does
they lie but they just tell you
what they want you to take away from it
I like to get you into my mind so you can understand
the whole history of it
but let me just tell you what it is
Apple and other
tech giants
are putting the communist Chinese
government
in charge
of the iCloud
and is moving the
store iCloud keys
which means your digital ID
your digital number
your digital internet ID
to China
raising human rights fears
and you read this and even Reuters admits
the government of China
runs that
and uses it for control
as the internet ID over their
social network score system
they just mentioned they use it to social networks
for social control they don't give you
because they're Reuters so smart
the whole backstory
so the headline is
Apple is merging
with the communist Chinese government
let me stop right there
let me take you a step further
that's why
I am agonized
because I can't handle it anymore
see it just gave me a huge headache
because all the connections just happened
do you remember what happened a month ago
or five weeks ago to be precise
China said we're lowering
our taxes to zero
for select global corporations
that agree to be state
monitored that means controlled
by the people's
liberation army
by the people's
toilet bureau
and now
five weeks later
Apple that has the worst subcontracted
factories with suicide nets and stairwells
on the buildings forced abortion
18 hour work days trying to replace humans
with robots
they fully
are giving
the keys to the kingdom
it's like an Elysium
when they hack into the whole
you know computer cup the deal and he goes
he's got the keys to the kingdom
they're really doing it Hollywood's
being taken over
the major telecoms
I don't even know if Trump and his people
even know how to deal with this themselves
because they're all 50 60
70 year old and they've got smart analysts
telling them what's going on but it's not getting up
to the ranks I don't even know these guys
can even understand this themselves
because if they if they
did there would be paramilitary
SWAT teams would be arresting
so there would be
five divisions of the US army
and Marines would be in Silicon Valley
right now taking it all over
and lining people up against the wall
and putting them in handcuffs
I mean
it's a total Chinese communist takeover
you know what I might just shut the show down
and leave if everybody wants this then just
damn well have it I'm serious
God Almighty and all the weird leftists
and CNN and Hollywood they all
love it they got
mobile execution vans
dozens of them in every city and sell
Christian and Buddhist people's organs
for just being Christian or Buddhist
what have you people signed on
to the CFR
told us the Chinese century was coming
they told us it couldn't be stopped
America was done and Hillary was supposed to get
in she's on the Chinese payroll
they just made it
it's like oh the president
of China now doesn't have term limits
he's appointed by the Central
Committee and the Politburo
he's appointed by the
Communist ruling party
they're just making him a dictator
like Mao
a dictator
they haven't had one since Mao
a dictator over the Politburo
God Almighty
we have a full
on dictator in China
that doesn't have his fingers
in every pie in every cake
in every
no
it's them
it's them
and they're going to use Muslims to
overrun and destabilize Europe
and the deal's already been made
and we're just signing the whole
country over and all these Hollywood
scum and all the so called
comics are up there
and just like I told you about
the AI and the human animal
and how they worshiped the AI God
now you're hearing everything I told you word for word
it'll be down the road
long after I'm gone when we're under Chinese
communist control
and they'll say that son of a bitch said the Chinese
were bad and they were going to take over
and they are good and we follow their orders
you understand
it won't even be he warned us
it'll be he warned us and he's a traitor
and school kids will be taught to hate me
and hate you and hate Donald Trump
God Almighty
because they look at a billion and a half of them
and that they'll do anything that globalist
merge with China because they're blood thirsty
and they've killed
15 million little girls that's very feminist
isn't it they come by your house
some people hide the little girls they're about a year old
they take them
and then they go oh we've got rich people need them
and they keep the little girls alive till they
take their organs but that's okay one year old
girls deserve it
it's
so liberal
yep turn me into the woodpecker
anytime I'm not going to quit
I'm just telling you if people don't wake up
and reject this
we deserve what we get and I'm going to go further
listen to me carefully
a lot of the left knows this
and actually wants to see well that's what
the weathermen said they were going to bring in China
and they're actually doing it think of the boldness
of this
President Trump has to move against them all
if he doesn't
we're all dead
Fully cooked
ready to eat bacon
I'm talking thick meaty
center cut presidential bacon
savory and delicious I buy some
I use some I store some
awesome no refrigeration
needed with a 10 year shelf life
NASA pack technology
bacon fully cooked fully hydrated
ready to eat right from the pack bacon
or warm and served
life saving ready to eat bacon
10 year shelf life bacon
3 at fullycookedbacon.com
fullycookedbacon.com
one out of four people listening to my voice
right now could die from heart disease
this could be your last year and you don't
even know it because you don't know the early
warning signs if you think you're safe because
your cholesterol levels are normal think again
because studies show that 75% of heart attack patients
also had normal cholesterol
levels let me introduce you
to Strauss heart drops a world
famous heart and brain formula made in Canada
it's time tested and will give you clinical results
in 90 days or your money back
learn more at signsofheartdisease.com
they are shipping free this month
we'll talk to Victor in Florida
Victor you're calling go ahead
yes hi Alex first
I just want to mention if people
just go and try the products
they will be ordering all the time
I've ordered several of the products
over and over because it's amazing
in particular silver bullet
as soon as I start to feel like I get a little
sick you know maybe like a little
raffiness in my throat I drop some
silver bullet and it like I'll still
feel a little sick but it won't last
as long and I just ordered the body
the alpha power and the pollen block
well let me just say something Victor
it's people like you that then fund the whole operation
because a very small percentage of people
buy products and a very small percentage of them
buy a lot of the products so thank you
but when you mention the silver bullet
colloidal silver it's got thousands of reviews
a 98% review
it is our highest reviewed product
because it is from the top lab in the country
discounted high quality colloidal silver
and it's not a silver bullet but it's the closest thing
you're going to find to a silver bullet
you know I've got some
talking points here about caveman
from infowarslife.com
but instead of going with those talking points let me just give you
what I've experienced personally
from all the wives tales in every culture
we know that the bones have the essence
we know chicken noodle soup is great
for people that are sick
in the culture this has been reported because
it works
and there's no way to quantify
how strong this is but the amount
of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of
concentrated
life force that is in this is incredible
ladies and gentlemen
whether it's for your joints
whether it's for your arteries and your veins
whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy
this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest
concentrated bone broth
formula out there and it's amazing
find out for yourself today
at infowarsstore.com
what it can do for your family
and again I want to thank you all for your support
you are funding the information war
thanks for watching
infowars life
wants to bring you the highest quality products
our unique combination
of ingredients is designed to assist
the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior
vitality in males
support your body and mind
and take yourself to the next level
boost your vitality
and energize your life
take control of your body
grab a bottle of super male vitality
today at infowarslife.com
that's infowarslife.com
If you are receiving this transmission
you are the resistance
live from the
infowars.com studios
it's Alex Jones
I cannot believe
what I'm about to say but it's totally admitted
you remember
about five weeks ago when the Chinese government said
oh we're going to lower our taxes
zero our corporate tax
because Trump went to 15
to match us but you've got to become
state run in China
Apple just announced
and even Reuters says it's dangerous
and crazy
Apple moves to store iCloud keys in China
raising human rights fears
they won't even give
the code keys to the FBI
in the San Bernardino shooting
but they will give it to the Chinese
government where they have their slave factories
based
that are famous for the suicide nets
and Reuters everybody
spends it like oh it's the human rights concern
that they'll use it to target people
the Chinese government
it's an internet ID
the Chinese communist system has been chosen
for internet takeover
it's called the Chinese social score
where it ties into your bank account
everything you do
China owns the majority of our debt
China has bought up the majority of Hollywood
Disney
they've got a large piece of news core
and no wonder news core came out last week
and joined with the wall street journal they own
and the Google and said they're going to start
censoring us and now
since CNN openly called for
M4 Wars to be shut down last week
we were hacked today
they've ticked our live streams off
YouTube they're lying about what we've really said
and done they are lying
about Ted Nugent lying about Donald Trump
lying about everybody
we have reached a new level
we have reached a new level
they have banks banning
major gun shops doing business
they're saying that the NRA won't be
allowed to have credit cards
won't be able to operate in banks that's what Hitler did to the Jews
took them out of banking and took them out of commerce
this is ultra illegal
this is a trillion times worse
than not baking a gay couples cake
which I said baked their cake
people have a right to commerce
and you know come in and say hey clean my clothes
or whatever now if you violate their rules
or whatever that's fine but this isn't
a free internet where they're just kicking off who they want
these are major utilities
advised by China
and advised by CNN
and told to take us down
as part of a takeover and there's a giant
purge against everybody
major discrimination this is
massive and CNN's so arrogant
they admit it
and there's next level deception
going on I'm sick of the whole Russia thing
that gobble up all the debate
from all the stuff they're doing and make us defend ourselves
but Washington Post said oh Roger Stone
the Russians gave him the documents
no proof they just made it out
they said well we're just
speculating but then the media runs
with it's true
I mean if I told
you the other stuff I know they're doing behind the scenes
and I'm not at liberty to do it right now
I'm just telling you pray for info wars
pray for President Trump pray for the country
yourself and everybody else because let me tell you something
I've read a lot of history books
and I've just studied a lot of stuff
and I'm gonna tell you something
I can see how they're incrementally turning up the heat
so we don't respond
they go we're gonna have a violent overthrow of Trump
full page ads the New York Times
and then articles saying Jones made that up
there's no full page ad in the New York Times
and people on YouTube were like oh maybe Jones is lying
people were like no I got the New York Times
it says we're gonna have a violent overthrow of the president
and blah blah blah and it's funded
by George Soros
because you can go to the website and it's the group he funds
we can't go to the Capitol
armed men show up and point guns at our reporters
and the police say sorry they're just allowed to
and it's like little skinny
you know addled people
with guns
this is it
and Trump has gotten a
beachhead but
I don't think
we're up to something this insane
because we're just not even ready to face it
it'd be like a one-eyed one horn
flying purple people eaters landed
or something you wouldn't believe it because it's so
it's like when the first ship showed up
of Cortez five hundred and something years ago
in what's Mexico today
some of the natives couldn't see it
they'd say do you see that only like one in ten
the Spanish show this couldn't even they go
it was so weird they never
they just they couldn't even see it
and people say well why did people put up with Hitler
they couldn't see it or the Soviet
couldn't couldn't see it or
Venezuela couldn't see it
they can't see it because it's the
you had freedom so long it's here
they say it's a violent overthrow
and they're just gonna turn it now it's billboard
saying kill the NRA now it's kill congressman
now it's kill conservatives and
people just put up with it
and it gets worse and worse
and worse Roger had bad
Skype on the Sunday show
and he he wanted to
I want to have him back on to respond
because I wasn't tearing into him as he lives in Broward County
and his son's a sheriff's deputy
and you know he was said from knowing the sheriff
he thinks he's not a bad guy
and that doesn't reflect on Roger
I can have my opinions he can have his
we're not a cult as everybody knows
but he said I was kicking him around pretty bad
which I don't think I was but that's fine
I mean this is for good radio here good debate
but all these other big separate issues
we'll get into Broward County in the shooting next segment
in the short one we know
that for any Russian meddling
and of course the Russians meddle that's what governments do
200-1, 500-1 even the FBI admits that
I mean 10,000 plus front companies
in the 90s they say it's triple that now
even Wall Street Journal
New York Times had to admit in Washington Post
that every major state fund university
had basically been taken over by the Chinese government
and now UT just had to remove
Chinese intelligence operatives
who were on the board of the army
and Chinese intelligence
was running UT
so that was
I mean this is sensational
that's the town I live in
the Chinese had operatives running
the nuclear reactors two of them
that no one even knows are there
100 UT that funds a whole
skunkworks down there that hooks into Fort Hood
I'll just say it all I'm sick of it
I'm gonna stop right there
and the big JJ Pickle nuke up north
is run by the Chinese government right now basically
we are wide open God almighty
Roger this is
light your hair on fire run down the street naked
I mean they're trying to invoke civil war
they have their their their their their
mayors everywhere saying MS-13 will not be
arrested and resist the police when they
come I mean we have entered
total lunatic land here
what in the hell is going on
we are seeing a they're just going ahead
with the takeover Hillary already had planned
they're just going ahead with it
and I and I'm sorry we've got to stop it now
did you hear about Apple
is now merging with the Chinese government
to run their operations from China
and is going to give the Chinese government full access
to everyone's Apple ID
now Alex the irony here
quite simple is they're accusing us
of fake news they're using
that as their rationale to
shut us off of social media
and a slow motion strangulation
when they're the ones who are
promulgating the false narrative
Jennifer Rubin of the Washington
Post kind of gave me a stinky Rubin
sandwich laced with
shift the claim
in the Democrats memo that the
Russians sent documents to some
Trump insider for review
is then
tied unfairly and falsely
to me let's be very clear
I didn't receive any documents
or anything else whatsoever
from the Russians
let me stop you do you understand they're using
this to make us respond to divert us
they want a worldwide ID
for a global social score
based on the Chinese communist model
we first broke four years ago
and now they are officially
announcing my friend
that since they can't do it here
legally Apple is moving its main
operations to China
to direct their new
internet ID global
system as a new currency
basically under the Chinese government
this is the biggest espionage
I've ever heard of and it's just
hiding in plain view in Reuters
I mean this is mega level man
yeah because what it shows
is the people in Silicon
Valley are interested in cash and
profit over patriotism to their country
they'll engage but it's illegal
to turn all their customer databases
over to an authoritarian
government when they won't even give the FBI
the code keys to one damn phone
what we have here is
the slow motion straggulation
of the first amendment we're being
decimated on Facebook we're being decimated
on Twitter I have first hand
experience there you were being
they're trying to shut info wars
off of YouTube
they said that we said that no one
died in Parkland we never said
anything of the kind we did say
that children were coached
Tucker Carlson reported the same thing
for us he's
the basis for being banned they are
the fake news and they try to lay
it back on us and I forgot
that Tucker Carlson said more
than I said
but oh he can cause news core
behind the scenes is involved in all this
not Tucker hey Tucker we need all of you
to come out and talk about this
they're going to shut you down next
we'll be right back
we'll be right back
that's infowarslife.com
we need each day with our modern diets
secret 12 by infowarslife
is an easy way to naturally
upgrade your vitamin b12 intake
and support your body's natural systems
it pairs two forms of vitamin b12
into one explosive formula
vitamin b12 supports healthy
energy levels through red blood cell
formation and aiding in the body's natural
processes but it also assists
with many other functions of the body
electrify your mind and body
and take your health to the next level
experience the power of secret 12
at infowarslife.com
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality infowars biome defense probiotic
exclusive blend of 50 billion
live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic
strains that are known
to support digestion and intestinal function
our researchers are confident
that we have been able to develop
what will be the leading probiotic
on the market
secure your biome defense in ultra strength
or regular strength at infowarslife.com
today and get started supporting
your digestive system naturally
we've been testing this formula for years
but this is the limited first run
to the public so please take advantage of it today
support your own health and support
the info war
top scientists and
researchers agree we are
being hit by toxic weapons
in the food and water supply
that are making us
fat, sick and stupid
so what do we do about it
well for starters don't just sit there
and take it fight back
with the all new super charged
brain force plus
and fill the rust
without the crash
brain force plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation
and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new
ingredient called black pepper
fruit extract that gives you
an added kick
other ingredients include
vitamin b12
and neurological tonic and cognitive
enhancers that will allow you
to flip the switch
and super charge your state of mind
it's the real deal
brain force plus
secure your bottle right now
at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the
alex jones show
i want to make
something a thousand percent
clear because
people say oh you know
the alex jones
is a
alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
is alex jones
people say oh you know
the internet censors you
they're allowed to their private companies
they operate as utilities
they violate their own rules
they let people bully and attack you
then they lie about who you are
and foreign globalist funded groups
like cnn and it's foreign
says they're in my account
working with people to shut us down
and we have the new york times on video
saying the same thing
the new york times liaison to youtube about how
they treat you
the very definition
these big news companies aren't just fake news
they're criminal enterprises
involved in dirty tricks
lies, fake events, coaching things
i used to think
the people saying it was all crisis actors
a lot of these events and stuff were full of it
i know a lot of people are on drugs
they always protect them, they let them do it
there's always police stand downs
in the areas they choose
these kids are obviously been scripted
they're anti-gun, doesn't mean they're crisis actors
doesn't mean they're fake, we never said that
the telltale sign is they never show us
saying it, they just say we said it
oh we're banned, well even if we said it
we shouldn't be banned, they're young adults
in a public's area
saying these things
but now i look at all the people
saying there are multiple shooters and multiple
quote army men, we're not saying it's the army
the students call them army men, meaning paramilitary
in there that there were all these
sheriff's cars outside
they've been told by somebody to stand down
it's
it's crazy
and when they ban our videos
that are eyewitnesses saying multiple shooters
and talking about stand downs
and the stand down has been at least partially
come out
you have to then ask yourself
what is going on here
because
you know they've got billboards still up saying
kill members of the NRA
Roger Stone, look
you're right, you've made during the break
that Israel has not blamed guns
he's blamed
that the guy was
a mental patient or whatever
and he's pointed out that they've been to his house
but that the people didn't decide to arrest him or whatever
all I know is I see these arrogant statements about
let me give you the exact statements here
that
there's no one in the country who can't keep
you safer than I can
and he says that he does not have any responsibility
for the
sheriff's deputy who received his response
you say well this guy will get in trouble, he's fired
man most our deputies aren't like this
this is outrageous
just these statements
are
I don't want to make it about him because it becomes a distraction
all I know is gun owners are being blamed
for what happened
so I want the sheriff to come out
and be a champion of the Second Amendment and then people won't be after his ass
he needs to be clear about this Roger
well look
it was a surreal feeling watching he and Dana
a loach of the NRA
square off because I know both of them
I got to know the Broward County
sheriff when our previous sheriff
a Republican proved to have been
corrupted by the Ponzi schemer
Scott Rothstein and his two top lieutenants
went to prison for operating
the previous sheriff's office
doing political dirty tricks
now that said
the real unwritten story
here I think Alex
is the fact that on one of
the occasions that there was a report
to the sheriff's office regarding Cruz
he was remanded to the state
the state's department
of children and families
he was given medication
and mental health counseling
and after two and a half months
they were certified him as
safe to return to school
why are we not
examining the role of these psychotropic drugs
also
present in Columbine and other previous
mass shootings
and when we say this
we're accused of being conspiracy theorists
or being irresponsible
because Big Pharma
and the government doesn't want these questions
asked
exactly
so you know the sheriff I'd tell him to come out
and start talking about Big Pharma
and be a champion of the Second Amendment
if he wants to get himself out of hot water tell the truth
well there's here's the thing
unlike Las Vegas I think
the transpired in Parkland is documented
by video
we will be able ultimately to sync that
video to the timeline of events
Governor Rick Scott
has announced that the Florida Department of
Law Enforcement will do a completely review
of everything that happened that day
there is no question
that one officer trained
for 37 years a guy who taught
SWAT tactics
froze in the moment
this evidently according to a psychiatrist
happens on the battlefield as well
it was an epic failure of his duty
the sheriff called him a coward
the president called him a coward
I have not yet seen any evidence
that additional officers
stood down some students have said
otherwise let's go to the
video tape let's find out
but certainly they shouldn't be banning us
off YouTube or banning the videos
of the students saying that
all we want to do here is have a full
and open discussion
of the issues
much is made online about a Muslim
deputy at the sheriff's department
he was recruited and trained
by the previous sheriff
a republicans
you're one of thousands of counties
just in general though
this is the biggest assault on the
second amendment I've ever seen
and the racketeering saying that the NRA
needs to have it's banking credentials
pulled and it can't operate in business
that's the last thing you do before you
put some people up I mean that is
that is an active war it's sanctions
it's an embargo they're now harassing
citizens and gun owners everywhere
I'm getting sick of it and I don't want
to hear Trump oh let's raise the age of
21 oh let's ban bump stocks
I want him to say there was a stand down
we need to go after mentally ill people
we need to have the background checks
enforced that's been happening
this guy should have been adjudicated
not on firearms the guy was adjudicated
not on firearms from the church shooting
force didn't put that in the database
I mean we know who these loons are
you start saying I'm going to
reportedly say he's going to shoot up a school hundreds of times
you joke around once you get you know
you get taken in you get questioned
you get a weekend jail you say it twice
you know you get
five years in prison you say it three times
you know we break your neck I mean I'm getting
tired I have people all the time threaten to kill
me online and you too publicly
and the government doesn't do jack crap
because it's always in leftist blue cities
that they know that get away with this crap
and it's always in it's just these people make
me sick Roger well let's
be very candid they're using this
whatever happened at Parkland
as an excuse now
for their big move to
retake control of the political
dialogue by shutting down
a vibrant robust alternative media
it's not just us
at info wars although we are there
there's a giant purge there's a giant purge
there's a giant purge it's also a bright bar
and daily caller and
individual bloggers and
conservatives and liberty oriented people
on Facebook and we're being
by the way a lot of people are mad at me
because they go Alex have us
on I've gotten thousands
of emails and calls
every side ever went it's all gone
they're just deleting and they leave the site
but nothing there all these big gun sites
veteran sites shooting
club sites it's all just being deleted
and where's the news on that see that's why
you know it's really big
there's no coverage of this
which is why in the end
we are going to have to fight this out
in all fronts fight it out in the court
that's my next point truck needs an antitrust
move we need a new civil rights
thing we need to let these telecoms
know and these big any Google to stop
it man instead it's CNN
the New York Times bullying them like
they're not doing enough and then again
CNN admits they're running
the operation to ban us if that's not
just interference what is Roger
well more concerning is the fact
that the president's son-in-law and his daughter
are dining with Google executives
the president needs to wake up
perhaps they will never censor him
although I wouldn't bet on their deep-sixing
everywhere on the volume when they censor
us and this is all in preparation
for 2018 and twenty-twenty
twenty-twenty they intended
take it back but first
they must silence our megaphone
first they must close down our
voice great give me a document
order the assistant
attorney general for antitrust
to bring an action against Google
today that is the
that's the short-term answer
I'll draw a little graph here for people
just as I see it in my mind
there's two thousand and uh
eighteen
okay there's two thousand over here
two thousand and ten
two thousand fifteen
this is about how the censorship is going
they test us they do these things
nothing really works
and now it's gone straight up
and you can see
in the increments it's just going to keep going
and total censorship is about right here
and so they've launched
they have launched as you said
into twenty-eighteen
into twenty-twenty
to shut everything down roger I mean it's on
did anyone really think
that the temporary shutdown of the president's
twitter feed for eleven minutes
the shutdown of julie and assange
the shutdown of sean hannity that these were
mistakes because someone
spilled coke on the keyboard no
they were signs of strength
and they were tests
they are showing what they can do
there are antitrust
and monopoly issues there are first amendment issues
there are service contract issues
these all need to be explored
in the courts in the congress
and in front of the administration
and our viewers need to recognize
when you see a great story on info wars
and you like it take the link
and send it to everyone you know
highway roger they cannot silence all of us
that's right I'm so wound up interrupting a lot
because I'm just so angry but I'm not going to be interrupting
any of the next hour because you're going to be hosting
but first I've got a big announcement in the fourth hour
spread the links info wars dot com
four slash show and all of their live feeds
and tell folks at the local station you're listening to
or watching it's critical to get around the censors
I want to plow into all of this
that I'm going to spend a few minutes
here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems
or books or videos
or other material from info wars
store dot com
you are funding the revolution
I mean I cannot say it any clear
and so it is essential that you
purchase the products at info wars store dot com
and I want to thank everybody that has
but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with
high quality atomic iodine
and you cannot beat that for children and adults
we've got the best mouthwash
designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad
with colloidal silver and iodine as well
info wars life dot com
or triple a two five three three one three nine
and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with America stands with
Trump stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies
and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
coming back against us so we need your support
the amount of bone protein
and the amount of marrow and the amount of
concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible
ladies and gentlemen
whether it's for your joints
whether it's for your arteries and your veins
whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy
this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest
most concentrated bone broth
formula out there and it's amazing
find out for yourself today
at info wars store dot com
what you can do for your family
and again I want to thank you all for your support
you are funding the information war
2018
man I tell you
Roger must have some gremlins over there
in his system or we do
but he's we're going to have Jack
because of the fourth hour
Roger's got some technical issues
but he's absolutely right about what's happening
and you know here's the thing
they want to incrementally censor and censor
and censor and censor and censor
until
again it's incremental everybody
kind of gets tired of hearing about it
you know that's a military tactic
different names but if you go back to the invasion
of Panama in the late
1980's
it was in 1989
for six months the military
did probes in and out and set off
blanks and do stuff so when they finally
attacked the Panamanian military
stood down
and so it was a very
decisive
two-day battle
victory
of course they could get rid of their old drug dealer
bring in new drug dealers
get rid of Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega
and that's what's happening here
is the globalists
are probing, the media is probing
they're censoring, they're blocking
oh we accidentally deleted Hannity a couple of times
oh we accidentally you know delete Trump
oh we accidentally do this to you oh
and then we get the internal Veritas videos
and across the board
Google, sitting here on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter
oh we just shadow banned the conservatives
they're so dumb they don't know that we don't let them talk
to one percent of their people
and then we have bots that attack them
to make them feel alone
they think it's real people they're finding
well like a hundred bots on some little old lady
you know who's tweeting
and they go well what do you ban little old ladies
well if she has an American flag we put a hundred bots on her
to tell her she's scum and trash and then she cries
that's a little weird leftist
and the videos
need to press them we control them
and that's the whole culture
is that
if you listen to
Sean Parker or Facebook and others
last year and this year the one public saying it's meant to hurt you
meant to make you alone they said
the person we mainly target is a SJW
liberal
who
is desperate
and feels all alone
and they've had other executives go public say the same thing
so see the leftist themselves
are kept in a little depressed space
in a little false reality but certain ones
with skills are taken out
of the universities first they're taken into the internship
into everything to be
typecast analyzed
and then they're picked because
they can then be taken in
and they'll finally
be put in charge of making everybody else depressed
and bullying everybody else
and having bots and so they're running
mainly bots to control leftist
and keep them as the core food
for their sponsors
so they've already got
their cattle
their domesticated cattle that most of them
half the public doesn't have jobs never worked
is on welfare but they're on Facebook
so they've got all these people to abuse and suck off of
and try to get as much other discretionary
you know income or EBT money as they can
and then some folks are taken out
of that slave plantation and are made house slaves
because then
they can manage
and keep them on the plantation
stopping any libertarian
or conservative or nationalistic insurrection
trying to free the slaves
so they just shadow ban you because they don't want you to get upset
and go to a new platform
or lawsuits or expose them
they just want you there under
bot attack being demoralized
but because you know they're bot attacks
and because you understand they're trying to demoralize you
you just keep gunning
keep firing and we keep winning
and beating the algorithms despite that
and they don't know what to do
more of you are coming online every day
more of you are fighting back every day
more of you are taking action every day
and
that's why they're panicking
is because they can't break your will
well I mean they've only gotten
the weak people
and I feel sorry for the weak
I'm not like a globalist kleptocrat
that you know sees these victims as food
I see them as
very very enslaved sad people
Jack Vasoba is
I announced Roger Stones
I was looking at my sheet wrong
I'm a little bit cross-eyed flustered here to be honest with you
and
so Jack we're always honored to have him on
you know he lived in China
before he I guess had another
assignment in naval intelligence
and I want to get
his take briefly before he takes over
on
Apple announcing they're going to be nationalized
and be out of the Chinese government
and I showed all the articles that's really what they've announced
the way they're announcing it's a little bit different
to help boost and support your flexibility
mobility joint function
immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store
only contains 1 to 5%
of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over
95% of the active ingredients
bodies combines turmeric
with organic herbs such as
spearmint sage lemon balm
and time to work synergistically
for full body support
try bodies today at infowarslife.com
or call us
at 1-88-253-3139
It's Alex Jones
All right
Jack Pasobic
Patriot
ran one of the biggest
Ron Pauls still does
fan sites
and grassroots organizations out there
and he's a veteran naval intelligence
you name it
will give you his websites as well
it's very very interesting
and he's a veteran naval intelligence
we'll give you his websites as well
it's very very important that you visit
those and that you also
be able to follow those
and check those out on twitter
at Jack Pasobic
and he doesn't have fake
twitter followers like the establishment
does
we're in the middle of such an incredible time
but because he lived in China
and has a lot of expertise on it
and has asked to come on before to talk about China
I just want to give my research
view and then get his expert view on this
China owns the most of our debt
the globalist made a decision in the last 30 years
to transfer power there
they've got 98% of our earth minerals
they have bought up much of Hollywood
in fact they're the majority owner
if you had it all together of the Hollywood studios
if you look at all of Hollywood holdings
it's 100% they are over 50% now
that's been reported
even Vanity Fair has asked will Trump break this up
because of national security issues
well when you read Apple moves
to store iCloud keys in China
raising human rights fears
it's an internet ID
it fits into the Chinese model
of a world ID
that they've already set up for their people
that is a social score
so any criticism anything they don't like
even not just being like a cult member
everything is wonderful when you're part of a team
just being critical of anything
lowers your stars
and then finally you can be kicked off the internet
and then you don't get a job
and so you're put into a digital ghetto
aka
mark of the beast
we reported on this in 2015
now it was in the news the last month
that this is being adopted
in the west
so Apple already has
its slave factories through Foxcom
the suicide nets and 18 hour work days
and forced abortions and drugging
and they're trying to replace them with robots but it doesn't work
that's all breaking down and there are rivers that catch on fire
and the global is using it to leverage out the west
and our secrets all have been transferred to them
and they've got embedded in our chips
that we make there all sorts of stuff
to take over our equipment
I mean this is a nightmare situation
and now just in plain view
Apple says
well to do business there we've got to place our cloud there
and put Chinese
companies and individuals that means
Chinese intelligence in control
came out last month the major universities like UT
are run
in a Chinese intelligence
I mean we are wide open
it was just made legal since Clinton
even though not in law
to be a Chinese government agent and take over
so you can type that in
Chinese intelligence caught
taking control of UT even the Washington Post
even Jeff Bezos admits that
so
here we are
the Russia thing
isn't just a lie it takes all our time up
to distract us
and to divert us
and to get us off the rails
about all these other subjects
and the attack on the Second Amendment
the attack on free speech and the purge of info wars
that CNN says they are running at
YouTube next level
it's crazy
to watch this and to see even though
Trump won it looks like the Communist Chinese
are moving forward with this takeover plan
like
the Chinese dictator said he'd do
last year at Davos he said
don't worry about Trump he met with Juncker
the head of the unelected EU two dictators
can't make this up
and said don't worry we'll stop
nationalism worldwide
we'll stop this we'll have Chinese back
globalism which was always the plan
so how does every American
not get behind Trump
why would they get behind the communist Chinese that have the worst
thing on earth you could ever imagine
so you take over I'll jump in
I want to get your expert take on that
I know you have a full raft of issues to cover
thank you
Alex I appreciate it and you're absolutely right to call out
what China is doing you know we sit here we talk
about Russia their influence
in the world they're meddling potentially in our elections
this collusion canard this lie that's
been spread but we never spend enough
time talking about the communist Chinese
the way they're taking over our companies
the way they're taking over the world
in in roundabout
circuitous ways that aren't direct confrontation
but behind the scenes China
is gobbling up more and more
power more and more influence and now
more and more technology
on the back end they're getting these
iCloud keys these encryption keys
is going to allow
any Chinese government
official any of the bureaucrats any of the Chinese intelligence
they don't have a FISA court that they have to worry about
over there they don't have the first amendment
the fourth amendment they don't have any of that stuff
and that is why this stuff starts
in China they move it they push it over
to China they go over there because human
rights are always
they beta test the human rights aren't even
protected so they beta test they protect it
yeah so this
this is the communist Chinese take over the internet
siding with the telecoms
and siding with the big internet companies
who are manufacturing their slave goods
right there in China I mean this is true
science fiction happening in 2018
yeah this is stuff
that if we if we talked about it anywhere other than
China they'd say we were crazy if this was going on
he's staring around say it's China and they say oh don't worry
about it the Chinese have our best interests at heart
we're told I don't think they do the Chinese
don't even have the best interests of their own people at heart
they have the interests of the communist leaders
the Politburo and Xi Jinping
who's now fashioning himself to be a dictator
because he's they're moving to remove term limits
for the chairman of the Chinese party
but the party elects him to begin with
it's a permanent debt a dictatorship
of what a thousand people
and the central committee they then
elect a dictator so it just looks like
he's even getting rid of them basically
pretty much there's
there's two basic factions
within the Chinese party there's sort of the Beijing
click and the Shanghai click
Xi Jinping former Shanghai chairman
so he's sort of more from that southern click
but that being said it's one
group of communists versus another group of communists
the people have no power in this
they have no say whatsoever and in China
I don't want people to understand this
there's no separation
between the business and government
or government and the party
it's all connected it's all
one organization it's not part of
well when you bring in
the intelligence operatives of China
to run
the keys for everybody you know
on the internet in China and outside of that in many cases
I mean is it that Apple becoming
communist state run to a great extent
absolutely because they're
capitulating because they want into the Chinese
market they want to keep their relationship
open with Foxconn everybody knows where your iPhones
are made everybody knows where the iPads are made
and they're just going to keep moving
slower and then this is the key
China moves slowly they move very slowly
so this this move is a very big
move for them because China doesn't think in terms
of two years or four years they think in terms of
50 years 100 years
all right well great job keep breaking it down if you want
Jack but I'm it's scary that you know
you're been enabled intelligence and other things and lived in China
and and then you're just
I mean this is but the CFR Braggs
the decision's been made and then Trump
if the elite was even smart with the support
of each is trying to bring balance for some
type of brokerage
or some type of leverage or some type of give
and take with China instead
the establishments put their
their legs behind their ears here
and are grabbed their ankles and just said
come in and run everything to the most
evil group of people I've ever seen
and the left is just salivating
you know saying China will teach
America these people are crazy
I mean they would net the average leftist
that have welfare in China
describe that for people and then take over God bless
you
yeah Alex people also don't understand is that
China is a system very much
there are no human rights to speak
of you don't have property rights you can
own a home you can own your land
if they want you gone they move you they
move your entire neighborhood if they don't want
your city there because they want to
they want to build a dam and they want to build a huge
reservoir they will then they
ship you out of your city they kick you out
you're gone you have to go live somewhere else
as they did with the Three Gorges Dam project
the entire cities were
essentially flooded and leveled
and millions of people
lost their homes they were kicked out imagine
then those people the people who have
no care whatsoever for human
life or regard for
the rights of the individual to then
come over and be given the keys
to the kingdom which is what Apple
is specifically doing they're giving you the keys
to their iCloud devices
now they're going to start with the just the Chinese
ones they're saying oh it's only going to be used for Chinese
users so don't worry about it nobody else has anything
to worry about however as we've seen
in the past with Apple's track record
I think that that definitely should
be something that we should be absolutely
skeptical of and hold them to account
because if they're allowing the backdoor
access for the Chinese government for
Chinese users because we know of course
they don't have this type of human rights
violations or excuse me the protections
that we have in the US they don't have FISA courts
they don't have FISA rulings any of this
what they have is unlimited
power of a communist dictatorship we
don't have that in the United States however
the left tries to institute it every
single day and that is why every
single day we fight back against it
here on Infowars make sure to stay
tuned I've got a lot of news to break up
from CPAC and all the other things that happen
so stay tuned Jack was over. The answer to being in control
of your own health care is freedom
from insurance become
part of a group of self-pay patients
that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses individual share
amounts begin at one hundred seven dollars
a month and three hundred forty seven for families
choose from three health sharing programs
holistic treatments may be eligible for
sharing see guidelines discount
programs available for dental vision
and pharmacy go to libertyoncall.org
that's libertyoncall.org
fully cooked ready to eat bacon
I'm talking thick meaty center cut
presidential bacon savory
and delicious I buy some I use
some I store some awesome
no refrigeration needed with a
ten year shelf life NASA
pack technology bacon fully
cooked fully hydrated ready to
eat right from the pack bacon or
warm and serve life saving
ready to eat bacon ten year
shelf life bacon ships free
at fully cooked bacon dot com
fully cooked bacon dot com
water is the single most important
thing your body needs so you want
to be sure it's the best for you and
your family since two thousand
five thousands have depended on
burky purified water the burky guy
provides the lowest price filtration
systems in every size for
incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency get
to go burky dot com
we're call 877-886-3653
877-886-3653
go burky dot com
hunters anglers campers and
survivalists get back to nature
expand your horizons with the highest
quality most versatile unique
slingshots and sling bows on the market
at slingbow.com slingbow products
are compact and models start from
just 1798 they're perfect
for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle
give yourself and your loved ones
the excitement and tradition of slingbow
a new frontier in archery
and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool feel the thrill
only at slingbow.com
top scientists agree
that aging is most likely caused
by cellular damage resulting
from these reactive oxygen species
the antioxidants found
in cell force are some of the most
powerful available on the market
the stronger the antioxidant the
better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and
other free radicals boost
protect and adapt with
cell force from info wars life
head to info wars life
dot com or call
1-888-253-3139
info wars life
is bringing you a breakthrough in modern
medicine we have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory
health and normal breathing
this is pollen block
in the 1960s researchers in France
noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms
experienced less seasonal distress
symptoms like runny nose, itchy
watery eyes and excessive mucus
production and against studying
the effects in public trials
in their public trials now we are
introducing the fruit of the research
a fast acting chewable tablet
just chew two tablets at the
first sign of seasonal distress
and fast acting pollen block
starts working in about 15 minutes
help alleviate seasonal distress
enjoy the air you breathe naturally
fast acting pollen block available
now at info wars life
dot com or by calling till 3
1-888-253-3139
you're listening to the
alex jones show coming to you
from the former united states
of america from deep in the heart
of texas it's alex jones
alex jones
jack vasovic in the
host seat in the hot seat here
big fourth hour so much
we're breaking down
i spent the last weekend
at c-pack here in washington dc
we had c-pack a lot of
conservative speakers came out and talked
however a lot of the never trumpers
were there as well so we
said you know what i don't know if c-pack
is the right venue for all of us
because they've got so many of these
never trumpers there i just don't know
if it's the right spots we went around
we did a bunch of interviews as we were walking
around people kept coming up to me
i couldn't go five feet in the c-pack
hallway someone jack let me get a selfie
jack i want to talk to you jack can we do
this interview jack sit over here you know
say this thing say that thing reporters
coming all over the place so
there's a big change happening at c-pack
but the conservative establishment
the republican establishment hasn't
quite picked up on it yet though they're getting it
we are we are trying to teach them we are
going to teach them the same way that
president trump taught them about what it
takes to win what it takes
to be an actual doer in life
and not just someone who has a strong
verbal IQ not just someone who has a
strong you know is good at talking you have
to be a doer not just a talker to succeed
at life and so that
is why we decided to
do something as we say and we
went and held our own event called a night
for freedom
we held a night for freedom over in
washington dc myself
mike cernovich stefan mollinou
mylo yanopoulos came out jesse
lee peterson from newsmax
absolutely amazing event about 500
people there incredible just incredible
however antifa
also showed up antifa
showed up themselves
antifa came in
they were outside they were
chanting they were screaming at us
protesting we're inside having a great time
we're inside eating steak
and having delicious adult beverages
not myself of course
but others were having delicious adult beverages
but you've got to hear these antifa outside
we're going to play the beginning
they are screaming
and they are talking about getting guns
they are talking about
the revolution they are telling us
to face the wall let's see if we have that clip
right here very quickly so you guys can hear
that
revolution has come
it's time to pick up a gun
the revolution has come
it's time to pick up a gun
You're the Nazi, you're the Nazi, you're a terrorist organization.
Come out with no mask and put a tie on, bitch.
All right, well, that's, that's anti-file.
You can see the rest of the video keeps going there.
People saying, you know, why do you come out in masks?
You call us Nazis, but you come out with masks and you hear those chants.
You know, we're told by the mainstream media that these people are, are peaceful and they're
just, we're there, they're supposed to be liked and they're supposed to be taken care
of.
Well, I'm out there.
A lot of my friends are out there as well and you can hear them screaming at us.
The revolution has come.
It's time to pick up a gun.
They later said, face the wall.
These are not peaceful statements.
This is not a political debate.
This is not someone who's putting together, you know, discussion points and trying to
figure out how to bring our country forward.
They're saying the revolution has come.
The revolution has come and it's time to pick up a gun.
Those are the words that were screamed at us by Antifa, a domestic terrorist organization
as they've been described by the FBI and Homeland Security.
They're screaming.
It's time to pick up a gun and yet the police, they weren't able to arrest them.
They won't even talk about it.
Media just says, oh, you know, there was a protest and people came out and they don't
even report anything we said inside.
They don't report any of the speakers.
They don't report any of the speeches.
All they say is Antifa came and came to protest.
Antifa stopped by to do a little protest and you can see some of the video here.
We're all standing there as they march with their communist flags screaming for armed
revolution in America.
Now, fortunately, not too many of them came because we ran a little bit of a deception
operation.
We told them that our event was actually over in Maryland.
So they all went over to Maryland thinking that it was over there acting like a bunch
of fools that they are.
They went over to Maryland.
They rode the bus because of course, Antifa always gets bussed everywhere they go and
they can't actually afford to have their own car.
So they went over to Maryland and then they found out that we were really all inside in
DC.
So we come back to DC.
We had our great event there.
Everybody was already inside about maybe a dozen of them and that's being generous.
It is being generous to say a dozen of them showed up and they started screaming for armed
revolution in the United States.
Now correct me if I'm wrong.
But the last time I checked that calling for an armed overthrow of the United States government
was a crime.
I could be wrong.
I could be, I don't know, I'm not a lawyer.
I was in the Navy.
I was an Intel guy.
We focus on collecting intelligence on terrorist organizations, of course, foreign ones, not
these domestic ones like these guys.
But if that were something that I heard people saying in another country, you can be darn
sure I would be writing an report on it and I would be saying these guys are no joke.
So we've been warned by the FBI.
We've been warned by Homeland Security of more Antifa attacks.
And now we have Antifa themselves coming out saying that there are going to be attacks
and they want guns, armed insurrection, armed attacks against.
And what were we even doing inside?
What were we even doing inside?
It was a wonderful event, a peaceful, fun event.
We were talking about freedom in the United States.
We were celebrating freedom and a diverse event, I must add, because it's funny.
We didn't actually plan for it to be diverse.
That's not really something that we push for.
We just want to have a fun event, a good event.
And you looked at the crowd, we looked as we came in, it was a really diverse crowd.
And then I went out to Antifa and they were all white.
Every single one of them.
I could see, I mean, it's hard to tell, they've got those masks on.
But from what I could tell, it seemed, you know, you can see their hands and everything
else that they were white.
So I started, we actually at one point, we started chanting hashtag Antifa so white
at them because they are, it was they're actually less diverse than we were inside.
So what does that really go to tell you?
What does that go to tell you when we've got people who are speaking that are, that are
our, you know, minorities, Jewish, different religions, different backgrounds, different
ethnicities, you know, that actual melting pot idea of America that we used to all talk
about and we used to all agree that America was about the American culture, not multiculturalism.
But then we've got Antifa and they're all white.
So they're actually the white soy boys of Antifa.
We had one of them who tried to get in.
He thought he would be cute.
He thought he would be cute to try to get in.
This guy, longtime Antifa DC operative tried to get in because he bought a ticket under
a fake name.
So he got one of his friends to buy a ticket for him and the friend, then I guess gave
him the ticket, but he didn't realize that we were doing one thing.
We were checking IDs at the front door.
See, I guess we can't do that at the polling place, but this is apparently, I guess something
that he learned from voting, we actually went and checked IDs and we found that the name
he gave us and the ticket that he showed us did not match the ID that he showed us.
It didn't.
And then the ID was clearly him.
You could see in the picture.
So we threw him out.
We said, get out of here.
You're done.
We got our armed security to throw him out because our armed security protected us, wasn't
the Broward sheriffs.
They actually protected our event.
They protected us.
We had an amazing time.
My wife was there, my whole family was there, tons of people, so much energy, so many connections.
This movement, ladies and gentlemen, is not going anywhere.
The information war is being won and it's being won by us.
Stay tuned.
Come back up.
Big segment coming up.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all-natural, earth-friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk.
Get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply.
Or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and
natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben's soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned
real soaps that are triple concentrated, soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
New from EmRick's Essentials, fragrance-free natural deodorant for your body care needs.
Playing basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat.
To maintain my game, I need all the confidence I can get.
That's why I use EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant, made with organic ingredients.
This deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals to ionize odor, keeping
me fresh throughout the day.
While shooting hoops, the last thing I want is sweaty armpits making my hands slippery
and the ball wet.
That's why I recommend EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free deodorant.
Even though it's unscented, it's effective at combating strong body odor, and I don't
have to worry about any unwanted allergic reactions to my sensitive skin.
Whether you're a guy or gal, the last thing you want to be worried about is your deodorant.
No petroleum-based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty-free.
Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance-free natural deodorant, available
at InfowarsStore.com.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super blue fluoride-free products.
InfowarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver, designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com.
That's InfowarsStore.com.
I'm so excited.
The new product at InfowarsLife.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at InfowarsStore.com, and your purchase fuzz the operation.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of
the Infowar.
Back for so big coming to you live from Washington, DC.
Here I am in sconce in the Beltway, in the swamp itself.
It is swampy out there, and the crocodiles are out.
The alligators, the snakes, they're all slithering around, but we've got President Trump in the
White House.
We've established a beachhead in the swamp, and that is so amazing.
So we're here to support him, and we're here to also tell the truth about what's going
on in our country, what's going on around the world, and what the mainstream media refuses
to report.
Now, one of the stories, one of the most heartbreaking stories of the month of February, one of the
most heartbreaking stories we've ever had to cover is this horrific school shooting down
in Broward County, Florida.
And as we learn more and more about this shooting, the psychopath, Nicholas Cruz, the fact that
all of the warning signs were there on this guy, every single one of them.
This kid was practically screaming to the world that he was going to commit and act
like this.
I'm not sure what else he could have done to tell people that he was going to do this.
In fact, he stated on YouTube that he was going to do this under his real name.
The FBI later came out and said they couldn't identify him, but he used his real name, so
I'm not sure how they couldn't identify him.
So many reports, so many warnings given to the FBI on him, including one time they called,
I believe it was in January, just about a month before this happened, where one of the
statements given was that he's into ISIS, said that he was in ISIS, that he was enamored
with ISIS and these Syrian rebel groups.
And that that was one of the things along with this obsession with guns that might drive
him to do something.
That FBI transcript of the report was released, however, no action was taken, his guns were
not confiscated, he was not arrested or even brought in for questioning.
So now it turns back to the Broward County Sheriff's Department, who we now learn visited
his home many times, was called to his house many, many times.
I've heard there's so many different numbers being thrown around.
I've heard it was 23 times, I've heard it was 39 times, I've heard it was 44 times.
The point is, they went to his house many, many times, okay, more than one or two.
When you have the sheriffs brought to your house, okay, the sheriffs brought to your
house once, you'd think that's a bit of an issue, twice you'd think that's a bit of
an issue, 45 calls, 22 times, so many times they visited them, nothing, no action was
taken whatsoever.
So we've now started digging more into the Broward County Sheriff's Department to learn
more about who these people are.
And there is a shocking, I think a video that will be shocking to many of our viewers, a
video from 2015 about a deputy sheriff who's in that same Broward County Sheriff's Office.
Now this guy's name is Nazar, Nazar Hamza, and he is a leader of care.
He is a leader of care, which is a Hamas-tied group.
The deputy sheriff of Broward County, and another production team, we've got this video
of him actually teaching the local mosque there how to use firearms, how to conduct
themselves in an attack.
Now they've got a second amendment right, just like anyone else in the United States,
they have the right to self-defense, and that is perfectly fine.
But I think for a lot of people, they're wondering, and this is something for me, why is he pointing
these dummy gums at them and flagging them like that, right?
The first rule of firearm safety is you treat every gun, even a dummy gun, even a false
gun as if it is loaded, and he's breaking every single rule in the book when it comes
to this.
And so, I think that relationship of this Hamas-tied care leader to the Broward Sheriff's
Department, why he was deputized, why he was given this ability, this title within the
Broward Sheriff's Department, what exactly is that relationship?
Why do they have that relationship?
No, I want to explain this to people.
This is not someone who came up through the ranks as a sheriff in Broward County and then
became a leader of care, it's the other way around.
He was a leader of care first and then was deputized by the Broward County Sheriff.
So what exactly is that relationship, and why, I mean, I've not heard specific examples
of deputization between care and other law enforcement entities.
However, we do have to point out that this has been an ongoing trend and was certainly
a trend that went on between 2008 to 2016 of care getting deeper and deeper ties with
local law enforcement levels around the country.
So here he is in his arms, speaking as a deputy with the Broward County Sheriff's Office.
He is a member of care, but also a leader of care, but also speaking as a member of
the Broward Deputy Sheriff.
So for people who are asking questions, for people who want to know why was it that these,
we were first told one, but now we learned was four Broward County Sheriffs, the same
Broward County Sheriffs that did not go into the building, that did not do anything to
stop this horrible act.
What exactly is going on in Broward County?
Where are their priorities?
What is their training?
What are their standard operating procedures?
And why is it that this sheriff, the sheriff Israel of Broward County, he says they acted
appropriately, they heard the gunfire, but they didn't go in, they didn't do anything.
And I have to imagine with that, they knew exactly what it was, if they had had any kind
of firearms training, they would know that that was a rifle inside and that inside a
building that they were sworn to protect.
And their response, quite frankly, was disgusting, to stay outside and to hide and to wait until
other police from another town nearby eventually came and engaged and went into it.
We're still, the investigation is still ongoing as to how this was actually pulled off, but
the fact that they didn't even enter the building, I think is shocking to a lot of people and
it certainly makes the case for the reason that we have the second amendment in the United
States.
The reason that we have the right to self defense and it certainly left the opening
of saying, wait a minute, these are the people that we were told we're going to protect our
children.
The most defenseless group that we have, I've got one on the way, right?
My first kid, I'm about to have my first kid, and I don't want my first kid to be growing
up in a country where we don't give them the protection they're supposed to have.
And even when we do have someone, a school resource officer and sheriffs that are supposed
to protect them, that when there's an active shooter going on and they do nothing.
They do absolutely nothing.
Now CNN, before all of this came out, CNN put this guy up at a town hall and they made
him out to be a hero.
They made him out to be this huge hero that was someone that we should all look up to.
And then we later find out after their huge, very highly produced, very highly polished
town hall that this guy has deep ties to Hillary Clinton, has deep ties to the Democrat Party,
has deep ties to apparently care, Hamas linked care, all of these organizations that really
should make us ask some questions.
And his statements coming out after this saying that everyone operated or acted appropriately,
that there wasn't any issue that he had with the sheriffs.
They haven't been fired, he refuses to resign.
So there's now a growing, a very highly growing group of people saying that he should step
down, that he should resign, that anyone in this should certainly have their actions reviewed.
And I believe that Governor Rick Scott of Florida has finally announced that there is
going to be an investigation into the Broward County Sheriff's response to what went on.
To find out whether or not Kit Bondi, excuse me, Pam Bondi was on Fox & Friends this morning.
She said that she could not state whether or not a stand down order was given at this
time, but that she does know more.
And heard that in her belief, she believed that they were being dishonest with her and
possibly the governor.
So there is now an investigation into this Sheriff's Department.
And hopefully, hopefully, ladies and gentlemen, we can get to a situation where we're protecting
our kids, where we have school safety that is all anybody wants, that is all anybody
prays for, that is all anybody asks for, is that kids, when they're on their way to school
and while they're in school, will be safe, no matter what.
Jack Pasobic, hosting live, fourth hour, come on back, stick it here, Infowars.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so
you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste, use carnivore by Infowars Life.
Get to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now, that's InfowarsLife.com.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the Info War, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfowarsShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50, listeners have been
requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that
you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new auto ship feature at InfowarsLife.com,
this is a sure win, 10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at InfowarsLife.com, free shipping on orders above $50, and all out of stock
items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress, and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at InfowarsLife.com
or by calling toll 3-888-253-3139.
Introducing FloraLife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfowarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
FloraLife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and
releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
FloraLife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why.
Immune gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
FloraLife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30-day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfowarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of FloraLife probiotics today.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on for your mind.
Oh yeah, here we go folks, Jack Pasopic, last segment, fourth hour Infowars live from here
in Washington, DC.
You know folks, there's so much that we're covering.
There's so much news in the world today.
There are so many threats to your liberty that we focus on and we talk about so often
every day, but we also need to talk about threats to our health.
Because what good is our liberty if we don't have our health, right?
And that is why there's so many specials going on right now at Infowars Store that you can
focus on getting your health up, that you can focus on protecting your health while
you protect your liberty.
One of the major sales that's going on right now is DNA Force.
DNA Force, it's been dropped.
I couldn't even believe this when they sent it over to me, 67% off on DNA Force.
It's actually the lowest, I think we checked this, this is the lowest price it's ever
been for DNA Force, 67% off, $49.95, $49.95 lowest price ever to try DNA Force.
So this is your first time trial price, if you've never tried it before, if you've never
had it, over 1,000 reviews, 96% of respondents with a 4.8 score, 96% would recommend.
This is the game-changing formula for antioxidants to help healthy cells.
It is rocking the nutraceutical industry.
This is how you help your cells, this is to help with all of it.
Then another huge sale, 50% off, they've changed the formula, it's back, the TrueWay protein.
TrueWay protein, it's a new manufacturer and there's going to be a 50% off.
Folks, we want you to experience the raw power, that is TrueWay protein.
It's a grass-fed whey protein, it contains all nine essential amino acids your body needs
it.
Now, this is the vanilla flavor, there's other flavors you can get out.
It's about 20 grams of protein per serving.
Now when I work out, when I lift weights, I love to lift weights, I love to pump up
the iron, get that max rep, then when I'm done, you have the protein, you have a shake,
you get it in.
Usually I'll wait about 20, 30 minutes after, but within that first 20, 30 minutes, that's
when I want to get the protein, so it goes straight to my muscles right as they're in
that replenishment phase, so all of the nutrients can go directly to where I need it.
That's what you need, folks, that is exactly what you need.
Even if not, it's a great way to wake up in the morning, you can get your dietary supplement,
you can get all the protein that you're going to need for the day.
You have it right in the morning, boom, you have a shake, it's amazing.
That is some of just the amazing specials that are going on on sale this week at InfowarsStore.com.
A lot of the sales have shifted, a lot of the sales have changed, and that's why you've
got to go, if you want to get these folks, if you want to take advantage of these sales,
you've got to act quickly, because if any of these products, these specific products
that are on sale now, go and get them, make sure you get them today, get them this week,
why not just go now?
Why not just go now?
Because otherwise, you're going to miss out, the sales will switch and you're going to
miss out, so please go to InfowarsStore.com, support yourself, support your health, and
support us in our fight for liberty.
So folks, the last story that I really wanted to focus on today, I mentioned earlier at
the top of the hour that we had a great discussion, we had a great event, sort of a CPAC after
party that we called A Night for Freedom, and you can go to check that out at www.anightforfreedom.com.
One of the speakers there was made by the name of Gabe Hoffman, and Gabe is the documentary
filmmaker.
He made the film An Open Secret.
An Open Secret is a documentary that's been viewed over 4 million times now on Vimeo,
and it's all about the child abuse that goes on in Hollywood.
Gabe is now launched a new petition, and folks, if you're interested, Gabe needs your help.
They are calling for the Trump White House to appoint a presidential commission on child
sex abuse in America.
Now what they need is 100,000 signatures within 30 days.
So it's right there at petitions.whitehouse.gov.
If you wanna go there, if you wanna help out, An Open Secret, Gabe Hoffman, he's done so
much work in exposing the rampant abuse that does go on in Hollywood.
His movie, it's heartbreaking to watch, but it's so important.
So we're learning about now the failures at the federal, state, and local levels.
And Gabe, we had a great discussion with him, a great discussion at the event.
He broke down so much of this stuff.
He told us that he's actually taking his Open Secret documentary, the one that's already
been viewed 4 million times.
He's now gonna be moving it into a new phase where he's producing more documentary content,
where he's gonna be doing more investigations, where he's gonna be doing more and more exposing
of what's gone on in Hollywood.
He gave us a little bit of a preview of that over the weekend.
However, I'm not able, I'm not at liberty to say, shall I say, about what is going on
and what is coming next.
But there's gonna be more.
And instead of that feature length documentary, it's gonna be shorter clips.
But all of it, highly researched, highly sourced.
He's got the people actually on tape, in some cases, actually admitting to what they've
done.
People who have been convicted, and that's the whole point.
People who have actually been convicted of crimes against children that are now still
working with children in Hollywood.
How does that make any sense?
Or people who get convicted, but they have a sentence of only six months.
How does that make any sense for crimes against the most vulnerable ones in our society?
We're talking right now so much about children and children's safety in the wake of the horrific
school shooting, well, why are we not talking about this angle of school safety, or excuse
me, child safety, when it comes to the abuse that was going on in Hollywood, the child
abuse, actually people who are actually convicted.
And what he does in the documentary is he has the victims come forward themselves when
they can, when they're willing, when they want to, they will come out and tell their
stories.
They will tell their stories in hopes that this ring, that this abuse will be stopped.
Now, one of the reasons that it's so hard to go after this is because the mainstream
media doesn't touch it.
Because the House, the Senate, do not touch it.
Gabe has spent years doing interviews, doing videos, talking to people about all of this,
and the mainstream media refuses to talk about it, the House refuses to bring it up.
So that's why he's now going to our president, and what president other than President Trump
would actually appoint a commission to study this.
So it will elevate this to the highest level.
Everyone will be able to see what's going on.
Everyone will be able to see the truth, and will absolutely see the truth.
And we think that with President Trump's endorsement of a commission to study what's
going on, not just in Hollywood, but child abuse that's going on around the country,
the horrific child trafficking.
There's so many bills that are actually in the Senate and in the House right now to focus
on child trafficking.
And the fact that millions and millions of dollars are spent every year, right here in
the United States, in the child trafficking industry.
This is a huge issue, not only in terms of how it's a form of modern day child slavery,
but in terms of how we need to move forward to combat new forms of child abuse, to combat
new forms of the ways that people are using the internet, or people are using these horrific
power structures in places like Hollywood to continue their proximity to children, to
continue working in these industries, even after being convicted of crimes against children.
Show me any other industry where that would take place.
Show me any other industry where if people were convicted of this, they'd be put around
children.
It's not going to happen in your kindergarten.
It's not going to happen in your first grades, right?
That would never happen.
There's no school in America that would do this, but Hollywood has no problem with it
whatsoever.
So that is why this story, and it's certainly a story that people, it's hard to hear, right?
It's a hard topic to discuss, but that's why Gabe is leading the charge with his team
and his amazing group, and if you haven't seen it, go watch an open secret.
You can find it.
You can look it up on DuckDuckGo.
Of course, we don't use that big G word.
We don't want to use that because we don't like the tracking.
Go ahead and check it out.
Listen to their own words.
Listen to the sources, the survivors, the people that lived through this horror.
Hopefully we can get Gabe on the show.
I've got a new, a good connection with Gabe now.
I've got a way that I'm able to talk to him.
Maybe we can do a little bit more, actually have, you know, kind of a sit-down interview
or a special feature on all of this and the petition as it goes on.
So for myself, Jack Pasobic, the entire Pasobic family, we urge you to go inside this petition.
We urge you to stay tuned for info wars coming up next with Owen, all of the great news that
he's going to expose.
He's going to break down so much of what's going on and stay ahead of the curve.
So you can stay ahead of the curve and that's why you watch info wars because what we report
today, the mainstream media probably reports in three or four days or never will.
Thanks so much folks.
This is Jack Pasobic right here live from Washington.
Welcome back to SuperMailVitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean.
That means it's pure and resecured.
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours just on the files
I have here of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year.
The immune wall is incredible and folks other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf and so much more, it is concentrated.
You need to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate.
A citrus peel blend.
I mean this is the next level.
It's now available ladies and gentlemen, immune wall.
I think it's beyond seasonal.
Take a look at olive leaf and more, immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com or
triple eight, 2533139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
