Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War and now your host, Owen Troyer.
Absolutely huge breaking news today, stacks of news today.
You've got Seattle going full libtard, a judge saying that your car is now your home
so it can't be impounded, so just park it anywhere.
They're confiscating guns in Seattle now.
If somebody calls the cops and says you look weird, you've got a teenager in Utah who tried
to detonate a bomb at Pineview School and you've got Attorney General Jeff Sessions
with a pulse all of a sudden, somebody shocked him back to life and he's calling out sanctuary
cities as they are now being sued with interference over immigration enforcement.
Now Alex, you've got all of these stacks of news going on.
Meanwhile, the fake news, CNN continues to desperately try to attack President Trump
with lies.
They bring some drunk on air to try to use him as a story maker.
I mean, the desperation right now from the fake news and the deep state is really starting
to show itself.
Well, I've got to tell you, overall we're winning trying to bring prosperity and basic
justice back, but drawing out the globalist and their minions really has made me sick
and let me know that they're worse than I even thought they were and the disease that
was in the head of the fish has now reached all the way down to the tail and we are just
up against incredible times.
If the Democrats think that these moderate trade sanctions are going to destroy Trump,
well then they would be all for it and they wouldn't be breathlessly fighting it as hard
as they could, but they know that Europe has unfair internal tariffs against us, regulatory
tariffs.
They know that China has them.
They know that Japan has gotten better.
They've made a lot of good deals in the US.
They've moved a lot of big factories here because they understand that they need a market to
trade with.
The Japanese get it.
China is being very, very adversarial.
Mexico, these are all one-sided deals designed to galed, designed to castrate the United
States.
You've got Cohn leaving, well look, we got the tax cuts, that's done, he's gone, but
they are trying to destabilize the White House, I think the White House.
For the first time in 14, 15 months he is in crisis and we'll talk about some of that
coming up with Stormy Daniels and all the things going on with that and with all the
different moles that are inside there, but it is just a crazy time to be alive and to
see CNN and to see all these Democratic party groups and all these organizations coming
after free speech, trying to shut us down, it shows you what authoritarian they are and
it's very, very sad that this is the awful truth that we face and then when they fail
to remove our channel after four false strikes, there's still one on there that's frozen
us being able to do live streams from that account.
They then say it's all a hoax and they'll watch some posts and they say, Joe shot videos
from his home to make it look like he couldn't work from the studio, but it's all fake, no
one's trying to shut him down.
With the lawsuits and CNN saying take down our channels and peppy the frog lawsuit and
the real news situation and on and on and on, the Communist Party suing us, you cannot
make this up for the listeners know that we're good, we're honest, we're decent, we're trying
to build a better future just like they are and that's why we're all under attack, but
realize we're under attack because we echo the sentiment of the American people who are
basic good Christians or free market folks and that's why we're under attack.
So I'm very, very honored with you on the rest of the crew to be in this position,
but this is very, very serious situation and they are so angry, the economy's coming back.
We have a record Democrat turnout in the primary and of course they're famous for having people
vote in the names of dead people, so we've really, really got to watch coming up in the
general election just like we saw with the situation in Alabama where they said that
he was 15 points behind but only lost by a half point and we know they brought in Democrats
from all over to vote off voter registration rolls, so if your grandmother or grandfather
or father or mother or brother or sister recently died, you've got to go through the procedure
to get them off the voting rolls, you've got to talk to the county, you've got to go make
sure that no one votes in their name this year to see their names on the roll, now you've
got to, I'm not saying Republicans should go vote in the name of their dead family member,
I'm just saying the Democrats are having people vote on average, Project Veritas caught this
ten times, they said on average that they would have people vote ten times, they caught
them five times on tape, so this is massive news information, straight ahead on the other
side I've got a whole raft of issues here.
I'm so excited, the new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red bill, this is a heart and brain pill,
a new tropic, it doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's
beyond that, quite frankly I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to
their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people a hundred, two
hundred dollars for the formulae, and I came up with our own formulae working with some
scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies
and gentlemen, you add the preglenone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation, it's Olin Shroyer,
you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are literally in the fight for our lives right now.
And when we overturned the tables and elected President Trump, who's not a member of the
secret society, who's not out to get you, who's not out to destroy America, we forced
the Democrats and the deep state and the globalist to go full bore and show their true colors
as anti-American, open border, anti-white, anti-family, anti-Christian, liars, racists
at the end of the day.
And so here we are with all of these stacks of news to try to alert the American people
about what's going on.
But Alex, the desperation is really starting to show right now in the eyes of the globalist,
in the eyes of the deep state, they're sending their minions out in the street, they're sending
their minions out to vote.
We are really in the fight for our lives right now, Alex, and I know you're on vacation,
but you cannot take a break because this is truly just the most incredible time to be
alive.
Well, that's right.
A lot of listeners have asked, Alex, if they're trying to shut down your channels and trying
to kick you off the radio, and we see them all over the news, you're basically sitting
at rest, you kill you, whatever, why'd you take off a weekend?
I hardly ever take off, I promised my middle daughter, especially had never really seen
real snow.
You know, we see a little bit of ice on the ground here and there that I'd take her to
Brata, so she could see snow, and boy, she'd get to see it, they've had record snow here
in many areas this year, so it's like five feet on the ground where we're at.
But I'm here fighting for my family, for my children, just like everybody else, and
I cannot understate, I cannot overstate just how insane these people are and how bullying
they are and how authoritarian they are and how deceptive they are.
They are not leftist.
They are gangsters, and when I look at the history of the United States and the world,
if you had told me 10 years ago or 20 years ago that Info Wars would be one of the biggest
radio shows in the world, one of the biggest news sites in the world, and that CNN would
be lobbying to have you taken off the air, that CNN would be trying to get it shut down,
trying to block books from being published, would be going and contacting sponsors individually
harassing them in gangster techniques, just as Breitmark got it right and said, CNN goes
full gangster.
If you had told me that if we sold somebody's painting, that painted images of the campaign
in 2016, and there was a frog filling up maybe 5% of the total poster, that I'd be sued and
the Democratic Party would be funding it, or any of this, or just wild, fake EEOC complaints,
all of it in one weekend, it's a total complete message to not us, they know we're not giving
up, it's a message to all of you, they think you're cowards, and they think you'll see
this happening to us, and go, hey, we better roll over to political correctness, they won't
just call us racist, they won't just call us Russian spies, they will try to destroy
us, folks, they're going to destroy you if you let them win, they've got your children
in the schools, they've got the television, they've got the culture, but now we've forced
them out, and Jimmy Kimmel said that mainstream media's ratings were plunging into the Netflix,
Netflix is mainly mainstream media, Hollywood's imploding, the NFL's imploding, they went
down 15 points with the Take a Knee thing this year and last year, that's what's killing
them, is people are sick of the crud, it's the same numbers all over the world, every
populist candidate has basically won the last three years globally against the centralized
tyrants, and they even blamed Italy that elected 50 plus percent populist candidates
in a parliamentary situation, that is a mega landslide, the Democratic Party was taken
from dominant to one of the weakest parties out of eight major parties, more than 20 parties
total, but eight major power parties, they were taken to the lowest room with basically
no power, our media and Barack Obama came out and said that's Russian influence, and
Obama surrogates, Samantha Powers the rest of them came out and said it is Russians,
so the Russians are winning in Austria, the Russians are winning in Italy, the Russians
are winning in Catalan, they're winning in Reykjavik, they're winning in Brazil, no,
no ladies and gentlemen, it's not the Russians winning in the Czech Republic and Hungary
and Romania, it's 10 million military H-men that have poured in the last six years, running
around screaming Allah Akbar, raping, killing, bombing, and if the citizens say anything
or the police say anything, they're arrested, so people understand this is a globalist take
down of the west, and a pincer attack with the left on one side, and Jeff Bezos the richest
man in the world, and Carlos Slim right behind him, and all the kingpins openly pushing the
implosion of our borders, culture warfare, they're all tax-exempt and bringing in giant
third world populations to drive down wages and complete our journey into abject slavers,
so we're going to talk about all of this here today, and I'm going to go over some of the
big news, the good news, the bad news, the ugly news, but I would say Trump is in crisis
because Americans are instant gratification, and after 14, 15 months all the good things
that have happened, numbers show a lot of conservatives and libertarians are going back to sleep. Right
as the Democrat globalist counter-offensive is coming into full swing. Now, ladies and
gentlemen, that said, before we go to all this news, I just mentioned, the good, the
bad, the ugly, we are extending because support is critical right now. I've got a counter
sue, at least five of these groups. I've got a lot of lawyers that are top lawyers,
I'm going to do a pro bono, but I've got to pay for plane tickets, I've got to pay for
people to take the transcripts, I've got to pay for the PIs, I've got to pay for all
of it to very aggressively go after some of these groups and people. By the way, we have
open and shut cases, but it will take a year to even begin to win these, but this is a
lot of folks know, you follow a frivolous lawsuit on me. I'm counter suing you, and
I'm coming after you. Everybody wants me to sue for years. You have my word, listeners,
my word. We've just been letting these build up to get the very best ones. We have them
now with a slapback provisions, everything. We have them, which my lawyers say shows
how crazy the Democrats are because they admit the party's funding this and they don't even
care if they lose. This is how maniac crazy these folks are. It doesn't matter though.
I'm going to personally get these things thrown out and then I'm going to sue these individuals,
the puppets, because that's who we've got to send a message to right afterwards. So
it's on ladies and gentlemen, but we need the funding flood us with the donations by
the products. You name it, we make it easy. We have the very best products, ladies and
gentlemen, and we've got 30 to 80% off. We've never done 80% off sale before. The average
product 50% off very close to loss leaders. We have store wide free shipping, whether
it's brain force, the amazing new tropic, super male vitality, super female vitality,
whether it is the new alpha power that is amazing, super blue toothpaste, a limited
supply came in, a bigger supply is coming in about a month and a half, our Floyd's free
toothpaste. That is all free shipping store wide and 30 to 80% off. If you have to understand
at 80% off, those are complete and total loss leaders. We put out hundreds and hundreds
of t-shirts. Most of them sell out. We've had a lot that look really great, but that
folks just didn't notice or didn't see or didn't find because the shopping cart is
so big and the online store is so big now and for store.com that a lot of these are
really some of my favorite shirts that are below cost. When a t-shirt's 80% off, we're
talking, I'm losing two or three bucks on those, so a great way to spread the word,
free speech, every little bit you do stands against these people, but we have the best
deals ever. We have a support button at infowarstore.com. Click on that. You can make donations.
I want to thank all of you that have made donations. I want to thank you all for standing
up for your own family, not just me, but I have been mobbed at the airport flying out
of the airport in Denver and now at the little lodge we're staying at. Mobbed, but almost
everybody we talk to listens a couple times a month or a couple times a week. They weren't
even aware of the censorship. Once they heard it, they were shocked and amazed. That's the
issue is most of our listeners are already awake. They already know what's going in.
They tune in sometimes, but they just think we're a rock that's always going to be there.
All of our freedoms are being eroded by these tyrants. Now is the time to get really aggressive
and really upset and really angry and focused and we can completely turn the tide, but they're
trying to break Trump. They're trying to break info wars. They're trying to destroy Drudge.
Drudge is the only organization that stood up for us along with the listeners in the
first week and a half of this attack, the sub-president attack that's on everybody, by the way, and
that was not just us. They're using us as the poster child, but now Breitbart's doing
the right thing and saying this is criminal racketeering. They've talked to their lawyers
that CNN's involved in. This is it, folks. This is racketeering. Imagine the magnitude
of what they're doing. When we come back, I'm going to cover some news, but it's now
time to get aggressive or we'll lose everything. Every other nation has fallen into this communism,
this socialism, this race-based politics. The president and vice president and defense
minister of South Africa are now announcing they're going to take all in from whites and
slaughter them. Just last week, they said we may slaughter them. This week, they said
we will kill all the whites. It's happening all over Africa right now. And again, we'll
be right back and Breit called us down.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life. NASA PAC technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve. Lifesaving, ready to eat bacon. 10-year
shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the
place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed. This year, resolve not to be the next victim
of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone
inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset, and fake TV should
be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful. Faketv.com.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood
sugar, spikes, and drops. Poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of
these that can alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is
making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has
normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract
to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two-month supply
today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. Or order online, hbextract.com. Heart and
body extract, 866-295-5305. Or hbextract.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide. I'm also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have
now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com. This coffee gives
you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other
coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee. And it's taken us
years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site
today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available
in original or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press
all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at InfowarsLife.com.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from InfowarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution. I cannot
say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfowarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine. And you cannot beat that for
children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad, the
colloidal silver and iodine as well. InfowarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the
products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they
are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Well, it's a good thing that Infowars is now live 10 hours a day, because there's so much
news it's impossible to do it in just four hours. Oh, and Troy, you're here filling in
for Alex Jones. We've got Alex on the line with us. I mean, just to go over some of the
stuff that you've got. You've got a Utah teenager attempts to detonate an explosive at a high
school. You've got Seattle going left of Mao confiscating guns, saying you cannot impound
a car that's parked illegally if it's considered a person's home. I mean, can you imagine the
precedent that sets? You've got Jeff Sessions calling out California. And now the DOJ is
going to sue California over interference with immigration enforcement. You've got sperm
counts down. You've got Facebook about to release new robots. Meanwhile, rage against
the machines. Humans are attacking driverless cars in California. I mean, it's all madness.
It's all chaotic. Meanwhile, we're trying to restore the Republic, and the left is trying
to stop that from happening. Alex, you've been dealing with this your entire 23 year
career on air, but I mean, is it obviously the most intense attacks you've ever seen,
the most focused? I mean, they're trying harder than ever to shut you down, to demonize us,
to dehumanize you. Do you think this is the final push? I mean, how much can these people
possibly have left?
Well, they have a lot more left. I mean, they say all over the web and all over the place,
they want to kill us. They want to kill Trump. They want to kill his family. They want to
kill Baron. Trump is our champion. He went through living hell to get in there. He has
basically delivered on 60 plus percent of what he said he would do in 14 months. So it's
not about a worship fest for Trump. It's about thanking God and thanking our lucky stars
for how far we've come. Imagine if Hillary Clinton was in there right now, it's about
waking up and staying awake. And I know our audience is the most awake, most focused.
That's why they are hated. They are who CNN and George Soros and the love of H. And I'm
not just pat them on the back. It's when they call in and thank me, it's unbelievably ridiculous.
We're all in this together. You're right beside me. You're behind me. You're in front of me.
And they're here and they're doing it. And you know, if you go see a movie like FIFA
Vendetta, that is kind of a fictional police state. It models it off some Soviet and slash
fascist type deals where they're always trying to scare the public with all the scary news,
but then tell them, don't worry, the government will protect you. Well, it's the opposite
with Trump and us. Things really are out of control worldwide. Things are accelerating.
Every major defense ministry agrees. You've got screen sickness. You've got the sperm
counts continuing to plunge. You've got all the computers able to put out fake audio and
fake video or they can mimic anybody they want to go next level fake news. You've got
genetic engineering. You've got massive mutations, thousands of percentage higher than they were
just 20 years ago. You've got radiation levels increasing all over the planet. You've got
every major reactor leaking. CNN says 50 plus percent of the world. The UN atomic energy
agency says 93%. The point is, it is insane because people don't care anymore. They've
had it so good that a paradox begins where they've got it so good because people cared
before them and were focused and hardworking and organized. And then the civilization built
by the previous people begins to crumble. Then it goes into barbarism. Then it goes into
oppression. Then it goes into conquest. And we're now entering that where I don't care
of a kid's black, white, Hispanic, who they are. If they're raised in the West, if they're
raised in these decadent cultures, they become hateful little spoiled rotten snobs who on
average 50 plus percent of millennials want communism, want socialism. And when you say,
well, go to Venezuela, go to North Korea, they go, FU, we're going to kill you, right
winger. They don't even know that we're classical liberals. We're libertarians. We're the real
liberals. All the terms are scrambled. None of it even means anything anymore. Trump is
just a pragmatist that wants things good for business and wants a happy country without
a bunch of dysfunction because he's super OCD when it comes to everything being running
right and being nice and being focused. And that's a good thing. So that's why they're
trying to destroy him. Listen, in the, how many years has it been since they found it
in North Korea? 1949, 1950, the Communist Chinese through the North helped back them
invading the U S with a MacArthur stops it. Here we are ceasefire. They've only had four
meetings since then with a delegation from the South to the North, never in Kim Jong
Un's lane. But the last what five, six years now, Trump has brought him to the table where
he met with the head of intelligence from South Korea and others. Unprecedented. None
of our media said Trump forced him to the table, our military forced him to the table.
Well, just a few months ago, they were shooting, you know, ICBMs all over the place, threatening
to preemptively attack us. So you've got that. The only folks being honest about Trump and
his trade deals is Barclays. They've got top analysts saying, no, these are one sided
deals with China, one sided deals with the EU. Yes, China is only 67% of the steel production,
but they're ramping up to be 20, 30% in a year. It will kill what's left of us. So when
Trump meets with the aluminum and steel manufacturers, when we are a shadow of what we were in the
fifties or sixties, it is about survival for strategic national security. And the military
told Trump this, that we keep some of those damn steel production facilities. Excuse
me. I just, it makes me so angry at some aluminum. We're about to have nothing, nothing, nothing,
nothing, nothing, nothing. Let's say it again, nothing, nothing. China is ramping up to totally
deindustrialize us. And Trump is just, he's almost like a speed bump to the new world
order. He's almost just kind of like a softer landing for us going into slavery. All the
big corporations are already moving to China. They've gone 0% tax. Apple is merging with
them to surveil the American people. Mainstream news, no one even cares. This is red level.
China, if you don't work, kills you. These average leftists love it. They flop around
lazily going, screw you, Alex Jones, screw you, Trump, screw you, America. But they
love our honey. They love our milk and honey to quote Merle Haggard. Maybe we should come
in with, walk it on the fight inside of me next segment, but that's what this comes down
to. And then we should probably show some of this video from the CBS news report out
of New York when we come back. I'll do a few more minutes with you. Fake TV, where they
show Barack Obama's face in an example, which is computer programs anybody can buy now,
saying things he never said. It would take Hollywood months to engineer that 20 years
ago or 30 years ago for Forrest Gump. They can create fake video and fake audio. You
can create fake video in hours that's undistinguishable from reality. You can create fake audio in
minutes. You can buy it, the software for $5,000. So that's what I'm saying is, if mainstream
media has already shown they're fake news kings and will lie about all this stuff, we're
only weeks away, I think, from them having videos of us hiling Hitler, worshiping Satan,
you name it, because they are so evil, they will put out fake videos on us and then say
we did it and call for Lynch mobs to come after us. If you follow the continuum of force
historically, they always do it like this. So when they build it up, they demonize, they
lie about you, they sue you, they try to silence you, then they try to arrest you or have you
killed. And when I say that, I am absolutely deadly serious, Owen Schreuer.
Well, and the thing is, their minions, their street minions will buy anything. I mean,
they believe this Russian collusion, they think Trump is Hitler, so they will believe
anything. And you've already seen radical leftists go out in the streets, professors
attacking people with bike locks, you had the man go down to the baseball practice,
the GOP baseball practice and shoot that up. So you've got radical leftists getting more
violent, getting more hate filled, that will believe anything.
And leftist areas of Austin, they all look like their brain dead. They look like reanimated
corpses. They're all completely bombed out of their brains on drugs. They're partying
all the time. They don't know what planet they're on. And then they see you and it's
like a video game. They think they're allowed to come over and get in your face. And as
soon as you get back in their face, they get upset and say, how dare you? They're totally
living in fantasy lands and they're dangerous, dangerous, dangerous people. And thank God,
this is America, the only other country like Switzerland where our four bears brought us
out of tyranny. We were born out of fighting tyranny.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX,
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey Purified
Water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. More
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com. We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com. But
instead of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced
personally. From all the wives, tales and every culture, we know that the bones have
the essence. We know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick. Again,
in every culture, this has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify
how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount
of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and
gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there. And it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com. What it can do for your family. And again,
I want to thank you all for your support. You are funding the Information War in 2018.
Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in their published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of the research, a fast-acting chewable
tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress, and fast-acting pollen
block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress. Enjoy the
air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll-free, triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowarslife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax
fiber. Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system. Infowarslife's
cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
That's right. Oh, and in the studios, in the ATX, we've taken over here about five minutes.
He's got a lot of breaking news, a lot of video clips, a lot of key things to get into,
but here's the bottom line. We're witnessing massive historical things happen in positive
ways, in very amazing ways, in miraculous ways. We're discovering the secrets of the
universe. So many amazing things are happening, but at the same time, IQs are dropping, fertility
is dropping, people are more lazy. Every metric shows that this civilization, just like space
travel, no gravity, destroys the mind, destroys the body. And then you've got the globalists
in all their major statements and white papers admitting they've given up on us, and that's
putting it kindly. I don't think they've ever believed in us. And they're just saying,
let's just exacerbate all this, let's accelerate the collapse, and then build a new civilization
on top of it. But then I look at the globalists, they're the most inbred, hateful, twisted,
evil people, the most selfish people I've ever seen, and they're the ones creating
all the out-of-control, genetically engineered systems. They're the ones with all the leaking
reactors. They're the ones that seem like they actually just want to destroy the planet.
So their whole statement about building a world government to stop war and build this
utopia, that's for the mid-level minions under them, the PhDs and others of academia
at the highest level to actually man this system. That's why I'm so frustrated. This
is an admitted breakaway civilization, a technocracy. I told people that 20 years ago because
it was in their own reports. Now, about three years ago, they said from Davos, we're a technocracy.
We believe in appointing presidents and prime ministers, and we believe in cutting off goods
to the public. They're lazy and stupid, and we believe in austerity. Now, that's the
statements they make publicly. You walk into a Whole Foods, they got magazines and stuff
everywhere about austerity, how fun it is to be poor, but then it's owned by a guy that
made $37 million last year, and the total globalists and rips everybody off and gets
taxpayer money on every package he ships, and it's a total scammer. They're just making
it cool to be slaves, cool to be failures, because the average leftist, he is a lazy,
hateful, nihilistic loser. That's what happens when you're lazy and stupid and don't build
your body or build your mind or achieve things. You turn into a spoiled brat, but you turn
into a criminal and a psychopath. Almost all these serial killers are little spoiled rotten
brats. We know historically what we're facing. We have created incredible prosperity, our
forebears did, with all their ingenuity, all their science, all their commitment, everything.
Then now, a bunch of spoiled rotten people have taken it over, and they look at those
of us who aren't perfect compared to our ancestors, but are still strong and somewhat trying to
be noble, at least we're trying to be honest and good and decent, and they see us not being
nasty and being liars as weakness. All they think at a subconscious level of projection
is they hate themselves. If the light could be extinguished, if they could pull us down,
if they could defeat us, then somehow they might have been successful. If they could
capture the civilization, if they could get control of it, they could then rule it, they
could then be somebody, but only after we fall. They're anti-free market, they're anti-competition.
The very worst souls have gotten control of human development, and that's why I call
this the war for the future. I try to publish a book with one of the top writers live. He
said what, four or five, number one, New York Times bestsellers, everything else he does
is in the top ten. They call his publisher, they call his ad agency, they try to get him
fired, they threaten everybody. He goes, my God, I've never even heard of something
like this. We'll still get it published, but this is insane. Then they come after our sponsors,
then they lie about us and try to destroy us. Then they have people on CNN saying, the
guy that shots Khalees did a good job on with Walt Blitzer. Think about that. These people
are wound up wimps, like Wolf Blitzer and everybody, and Phil Mudd, I'm not killing
the president, but you know what? The bigger wimps is us. Putting up with them, like they're
a joke or oh, they'll be contained. No, they won't. They will slit our throats so they
get a chance, politically, economically, and then physically, because it's weak, disgusting,
little globalist punks. They always gather together in history to take over and to rule,
and of course, almost all of them get destroyed and killed by whoever they help come to power.
That's the story of history, whether it was Lenin or Stalin or Hitler or Mao or Fidel
Castro or Hugo Chavez or Pulp Pied. The list goes on and on. Julius Caesar, whoever helps
somebody come to power, and Caesar wasn't as bad as them historically, whoever helps
brings him out of power or when they brought Caesar down, especially almost everyone who
was a coup plotter there, ended up being killed. So those of you that lower the drawbridge
to think you're so cool, get money from the Communist Chinese and Soros and Saudi Arabia
and the EU and this abomination pope that literally says Communist China is the essence
of Christianity and will teach us all, they've all joined forces with a billion and a half
people and the robot factories and the suicide factories, and they think they're going to
win with that leveraging power between the banks and Hollywood and Communist China and
the Vatican and the EU, but they're all trash the minute we realize they're globalists in
their whole game and stop listening to their propaganda and organize with the United States
and try to take Canada and Australia back and organize with the Brexit and absolutely
Russia has pulled out of the globalist system. They're a natural ally. They're not collaborating
with us yet. That needs to happen. That's why they're so incredibly scared. The real
collaborators of globalism are afraid that we're going to start working with other Christian
nations to stop radical Islam's takeover and that was the final piece. The globalist occupied
Catholic Church, the Communist Chinese, radical Islam, the EU, Hollywood left us everywhere
or all combined in a public conspiracy against the West and against free market to capture
it and bring it down once and for all so that people will stop wanting to be prosperous
and stop wanting to be free. This is an attack on the Renaissance, an attack on Christianity
itself, an attack on anything that's upper really mobile. They want you alone and stupid
and dumb, hateful, believing if somebody else falls you go ahead because then that causes
an incremental and an accelerated implosion of the entire civilization.
So history is happening right now. We are winning the culture war, but they're intensifying
their efforts to intimidate everyone. We must know that it's not courage that makes us go
on. We know that if we capitulate, we will go into the dark night. It will be the absolute
nightmare and they will have their way with us and our families. Make no mistake, that
is their absolute lust as little chicken necked cowardly pieces of trash who want to dominate
real men and real women. This is what you're facing, people that lust after dominating
you. As a noble person, you don't want to dominate other people. You want to be left
alone and build your own systems and we have built the systems. They are lusting every
minute over controlling you and over binding you and over running your life and running
your children and pumping you full of chemicals and biological so you're sterile and just
ruling over everything because of the nasty evil people they are that serve their father,
Lucifer, the devil, the old serpent and it's all real and it's happening and it's going
on right now. And so this is the great fight. This is it and I am so honored to be here.
Other veterans and people have to fight and die to try to defend some idea of freedom,
usually being misguided by globalists but still their heart was right. But we get to
actually fight against the new world order, global government itself now out in the open.
We get to actually change the world and change the future for better. We actually have a
chance of beating this with God's help. So that's all we have. Lay out and be slaves
or stand up and fight and have a chance to take this back. We will win but we must be
serious. We must be focused and we must understand how serious the situation is. So many strong
men I know are busy just at their own companies, their own businesses and they're too good
to even involve themselves. Fighting the leftists and the other trash, you have to and it's
going to be your fault if we lose this thing that so many men sat there and decided, well,
I don't know how to do it. I don't want to stick my head up and I don't want to be involved.
You've got to do it. You've got to get involved and the bare minimum you can do is spread
the videos, spread the articles, spread the links, start your own website, start your
own YouTube, share our videos, share our articles and buy the products 30 to 80% off, free shipping
store-wide that they financially hate the fact. They've targeted our supplements, they've
targeted our t-shirts, they've targeted posters we sell, they sue us at every level so we
can't even provide products but we're still winning despite it because it's all frivolous
and still despite the fact that our courts have problems, the stuff they're filing so
frivolous it's being defeated easily but it takes money. So this is World War 4, a 21st
century information and economic war. We're going to go to break and come back with Owen
Troyer for the balance of the transmission. He's got so much to cover but whether you're
listening to us on local stations, on AM and FM or TV or watching live feeds, tell folks
about it right now and spread those links. We'll be right back because if you're watching
this transmission or listening, you are the resistance.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best
source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and
for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture
for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses and the
gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time and I'm doing this to introduce these
products to you. Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we
can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till
it's sold out and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today
in 4slife.com.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick. Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive
enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products. Info
Wars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try
our bubble gum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing
fluoride our super blue line is floated with a good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super
blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at
infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com. Introducing Fluorolife. The new probiotic
line developed exclusively by Info Wars Life. After years of research on the human microbiome
not all probiotics are made the same. Fluorolife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery
system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet. Fluorolife supports
your body's core where you need it most including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining
and metabolism. Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health. Fluorolife
is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic
for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program. Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle
of Fluorolife probiotics today. That's infowarslife.com.
The infowars.com studios. You're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host
Owen Shroyer. I've got stacks of news to get to and I will get to it whether it be Seattle
confiscating guns, making a dangerous precedent on a homeless man's truck being his home,
whether it's an entire stack of news on what's going on right now, what the left is doing
to endanger us. Another stack of news on what the left has already done that's blowing
up in their face. So we've got all that going on. We're going to have updates on the teenager
that tried to detonate an explosive at a high school in Utah. And I'm about to go to these
clips of Jeff Sessions as he just spoke and this is on the heels of the DOJ suing California
over interference with immigration enforcement. Of course, the mayor in Oakland, Libby Schaff,
Shifty Schaff, she warned lawbreakers in California, the police were coming, that's obstruction
of justice. And it turns out that some of the people that she let get away were people
that had robbery convictions and sex conventions. So way to go Libby Schaff, you're now colluding
with criminals. You need to be sued, you need to be locked up. See, these radical leftists
belong in jail when they break the law, but they get away with it because it's virtuous.
I'm just being virtuous to these non-citizens. Don't we feel bad for them? Really, you feel
bad for the criminals that broke the law and then many of them had sex and robbery convictions.
Now they're roaming the streets free, Shifty Schaff. So thanks a lot. But I want to just
talk about something real quick. What is Alex talking about when he says the fall of America?
What is the fall? What is the fall that the globalists want? Well, think about it. They'd
like to confiscate the guns. They want to do a gun grab. They want to end the Second
Amendment. That's going on now. They want to attack free speech. They want to censor
free thinkers. They want to end the First Amendment. That's going on now. They have
their Soviet-style, communist-style fake news, propaganda news on air, lying and deceiving
the public. That's going on. They want to have no borders so that you don't actually
have a nation state. Anybody can flood in. Criminals, terrorists, what have you, but
it's all virtuous. It's all good. We feel bad even though there's no actual security
there. So it's a wide open border. So you really don't even have a country. Then they
can vote. You don't even have a real election. How about a culture that is poisoned, a culture
that poisons the youth with just all kinds of trash on television, trash in the media,
and then that gets flooded into the mainstream. So now you've poisoned the youth. Now you've
poisoned the culture. How about not even being able to procreate. So now you've got chemicals
in the food and water and everything that causes people to be homosexual or causes people
to want to be transsexual. Or let's say that that's not an issue. It's causing males to
be infertile. Okay. And then it's harder for women to even have kids. So there you go.
So just destroy the ability to even have kids. How about the indoctrination of the youth
in the education system? So now you have public education systems indoctrinating the youth
into hating America, hating white people, being totally, oh, full liberal, even though
it's not actually liberal. And then you see the hate that is sown in the public education
system, specifically in the universities. How about the health? How about the culture
of health where now cancer rates are soaring up. People are more mentally ill than ever.
People are more obese than ever. So you've got the health. So the deteriorating health
of the country. You've got a totally corrupt government. Who's going to deny that that
the FBI is corrupt? No one's denying that the US government's totally been corrupt.
So you've got that. And then the death cult with the violence in the streets, with the
violence in the media, and then with abortion happening, just millions of babies aborted.
I think one third of my generation was aborted. So you want to talk about gun control saving
lives? How about abortion saving 33% of my generation?
So that's the fall that Alex talks about that the globalists have been working on for decades
and decades. And now we've reached the precipice where we're finally fighting back and saying,
no, we're not going to fall. We're going to pick ourselves back up. We're going to reform
this country and we're going to make America great again. They're trying to drown us. They're
trying to put their boot on our head and drown us and stomp us out. That's the fall they
need to bring in the global government.
Now, let's go to Jeff Sessions. First, actually, let's go to Trump. This was from yesterday.
The Swedish Prime Minister was in town and they did a press conference and Trump said
right to his face. And this is, I mean, folks, what's happening in Sweden? It should be a
national news story every day with what's happened with the open borders and the illegal
immigration. They're just destroying Sweden. I mean, rape is up, terrorist attacks, police
stations getting bombed. It's insane. It should be a huge story. Here's Trump saying
to the Swedish Prime Minister that they have an immigration problem.
Mr. President, I know that you follow the development in Sweden closely, especially
when it comes to immigration politics. Now that you spend some time with our Prime Minister,
how do you view Sweden in general? What is your take in and also on our immigration politics?
Thank you.
I think you have a wonderful Prime Minister, I have to say. We've gotten to know each other.
Certainly you have a problem with the immigration. It's caused problems in Sweden. I was one
of the first ones to say it.
Yeah, they said it was fake news and then he was right.
It was okay because I proved to be right. But you do have a problem.
Remember that.
And I know the problem will slowly disappear, hopefully rapidly disappear.
And you just look at the news that comes out of Sweden. Again, police stations getting
bombed. They have these schools for the migrants that come in and then five years later they're
boarded up. They got barbed wire fences. I mean, it's just insane. Rape epidemics.
So yeah, that's an immigration problem because it's dumb policy.
Now let's go to Jeff Sessions calling out the liberals, calling out the Democrats for
putting the lives of officers in danger.
For example, the mayor of Oakland has actively been actively seeking to help illegal aliens
avoid apprehension by ICE for action, support those who flaunt the law and boldly validates
illegality. There's no other way to interpret those remarks to make matters worth. The elected
lieutenant governor of the state praised her for doing so, bragging about and encouraging
the obstruction of our law enforcement, gangsterism, and full on gangsters.
The left are a bunch of lawless criminal thugs now led by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.
What do you think this is?
Has said recently, quote, being a law enforcement officer is already dangerous enough. But to
give the criminals a heads up, that we're coming in the next 24 hours increases that
risk.
Yeah, so lock her up.
When she said her priority is the safety.
You know what? Hold on. Just pause right there. Pause right there. I'll tell you what. I'll
tell you what. This is what the people are sick of right here. Now, Jeff Sessions, it's
nice to see that he's still alive and he has a pulse. But you know what? This is nothing.
I'm sorry. This is, this is fluff. This is an embarrassment. If I'm standing on the
street corner as a lookout for a gang and I, and I see the cops rolling up and I call
the ganghouse and I say, you better roll out. The cops are coming. I'm going to jail. Okay.
Why isn't Libby shaft going to jail?
So I'm glad that the DOJ has decided to sue California over this. I'm glad the session
decided to give the speech. You're still cooking. You're still a wuss. Libby shaft belongs in
jail. She belongs in front of a judge. And until you do that, you're going to have the
same mentality that politicians are above the law. Do you understand the problem here?
That's the problem. Politicians being protected because of their politicians. Libby shaft belongs
in jail. If any other citizen in California calls criminals to warn them the cops are
coming, they're going to jail for aiding and abetting in a crime. But Libby shaft gets
away with it.
Finish the clip.
He did have the exact opposite effect. Close quote. And I think that's a fair criticism
and statement. According to acting director Holman, I failed to make 800 arrests that
wouldn't have been made. Those are 800 wanted criminals that are not large in that community.
800 wanted criminals that ICE will now have to pursue by other means with more difficulty
in dangerous situations all because of one irresponsible action.
Yeah, irresponsible. She knew exactly what she was doing.
How dare you needlessly endanger the lives of our law enforcement officers to promote
a radical open borders agenda.
So lock her up. If any other citizen would have done what Libby shaft did, they'd be
in jail.
Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit m4slife.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable, great
tasting multivitamin formula available. Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at m4slife.com is
loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your
body absolutely needs.
In the history of m4slife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield
x2, supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard
of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in
vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That
means it's clean. That means it's pure and rest secured. You're finding the tip of the
spear in the info war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now
before we sell out.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead
of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth
formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarslife.com.
What you can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the information war in 2018. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
See, here's the problem. Here's why Americans are so fed up because Hillary Clinton gets
to break the law and nothing happens. Barack Obama gets to break the law and nothing happens.
Lois Lerner gets to break the law and nothing happens. Libby Schaff gets to break the law
and nothing happens. And then I get lectured on how Trump is the bad guy. You say, well,
okay, what has Trump done? He don't have anything. What do they say? Well, he colluded with Russia.
What evidence do you have? Well, he's a racist. What evidence do you have? Well, he's got
a potty mouth. Okay, well, what's wrong with having a potty mouth? I'm sure that, you know,
you don't sometimes say everything that's politically correct. Oh, but then Hillary
Clinton uses a Clinton foundation. They got all this money coming in. She's got multiple
wings, multiple satellites. She's colluding with Saudi Arabia, colluding with China, you
know, colluding with Russia. She's got wide open servers. People can just come in and
steal secrets. They're classified documents. Oh, that's fine. Obama uses Lois Lerner and
the IRS to target their political opposition. Oh, that's fine. Obama administration uses
the FBI and the DOJ and the FISA, of course, to target their political opposition. Oh,
that's fine. Libby Schaff warns all the criminals in Oakland that ICE is coming for them and
then they get away. Oh, that's fine. Yeah, no problem. But shut info wars down because
they might cover it.
So here's more from Jeff Sessions, which again, wow, Jeff Sessions, he's got a pulse. He's
finally arose. Great speech, Jeff. Put Libby Schaff in jail. If you want to stop these criminals,
put them in jail. Like it's like common sense. So here's Jeff Sessions saying that the officials
in California have boldly validated illegality.
Like California, we have a problem. A series of actions and events has occurred here that
directly and adversely impact the work of our federal officers. For example, the mayor
of Oakland has actively has been actively seeking to help illegal aliens avoid apprehension
by ICE for action, support those who flaunt the law and boldly validates illegality. There's
no other way to interpret those remarks to make matters worth. The elected lieutenant
governor of the state praised her for doing so bragging about and encouraging the obstruction
of our law enforcement. And the law isn't I'm afraid this is an embarrassment to the
proud state of California, the proud state of California that Democrats have turned
into a literal sh-hole. Well, remember the clean needle program enacted in California,
the clean needle program? Yeah, you know where those clean needles are now? They're infected
with hepatitis laying around in the streets. That's what the Democrats have done to California.
Here's another clip from Jeff Sessions saying that we have to have a lawful system of immigration.
See they say that we're anti-immigration. We're pro-immigration. They're anti-immigration.
They're open borders. They're anti-immigration. This is 1984, man. I'd just go to the clip.
We are a strong, prosperous and orderly nation. California is a great state so important to
America and such a nation, such a country as ours, must have a lawful system of immigration.
I'm not aware of any advanced nation who disagrees with that concept and let no one
contend that we reject immigration and want to wall off America from all immigrants. President
Trump and the American people know what's happening. We admit 1.1 million immigrants
lawfully to permanent resident status in the United States with a clear path to citizenship,
green card status every year. No nation comes close to that.
We take the most refugees too. So there's Jeff Sessions. The DOJ is suing California
over interference with immigration enforcement. Sanctuary cities need to be made illegal
and if you're in government and you allow those, you need to be probably put in jail.
But now the UN Rights Chief says that the EU and the US need to take in more migrants
and more dreamers. Oh, the UN is telling me this, huh? Oh, it's the UN. So I guess the
UN is in charge now and they're also forcing a tiny Irish town to increase its population
by 33% with open borders and migrants that don't know anything about the language, anything
about the culture, anything about the people. But we're the problem. They're destroying
the earth, but we're the problem. The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula
for inflammatory support and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with
bodies. Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been
used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well
known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus
peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your
flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more. Regular turmeric
root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root
extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try Bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
We had the guests on that told you the deep state and the globalists and the radical left
in response to the resurgence of America and the election of President Trump. They would
target schools. They would target trains. And then that happened and they targeted trains.
They targeted trains carrying conservatives. In fact, there was another train wreck yesterday.
It crashed into a tanker carrying hydraulic acid and you have the Florida shooting. Now
you have a teenager who was inspired by ISIS who attempted to detonate a homemade bomb
at Pine View High School. Now here's my initial reaction to this. I'm not even going to really
get into the weirdness of the Florida shooting or the weirdness of the Vegas shooting or
anything like that, but if you just look at this story and you just focus on this and
you say, how does this teenager in Utah get quote unquote inspired by ISIS? And he spray
paints on the school. ISIS is coming. Apparently he's an ISIS guy now because ISIS is victorious.
He pulls down the American flag at the school and then raises the ISIS flag. So how does
an individual become inspired by ISIS? I mean, really think about this. How does this individual
become brainwashed into saying ISIS is coming, ISIS is rising, ISIS is about to have their
victory? Who is telling him this? Where is he getting this? Well, they say he's inspired
on social media. Okay, well, maybe that's the case. So then where is Facebook? Where
is Twitter? I mean, folks, they're watching us. Hi. Hi, Facebook. Hi, YouTube. Hi. We're
still here. Hi. We're still not telling people to go out and bomb people as a part of Jihad.
That's not what we do here. But somebody is and while you're focused on us, somebody is
out there inspiring people to try to blow up their schools. Others are out there talking
about bragging about how they're going to be a school shooter and you're obsessed with
us. Hi. Hi. Maybe you should focus on the next terrorist that might be warning people
on your social media platforms right now. But nobody asked the question. I mean, seriously,
how does this teenager have this thought? Who is telling him that ISIS is coming? Who
is telling him that ISIS is about to have their victory? Who is feeding in this propaganda?
And if it is coming on social media, why aren't they doing something about it? Why are they
continuing to censor us and censor conservatives and censor Trump supporters and ignoring people
that are being radicalized or radicalizing people or warning people they're going to
be a school shooter? So the teenager inspired by ISIS makes an explosive device, says ISIS
is coming, thinks he's on the team of victory with ISIS, and then tries to blow up his school.
Here is the authorities in Utah holding a brief press conference to update you on this
situation. Today, just afternoon, a student was in a common area at Pine View High School
and observed a suspicious item in that area, a backpack that was smoking. That student
found a teacher and reported the observations to the teacher who then contacted the school
resource officer that was on duty in the school. It happened that they contacted another
SRO to respond to the scene right away, who is also a member of the regional bomb unit.
So he responded to evaluate the backpack as did the school resource officer supervisor.
Once they were able to look at the backpack and determine it, it was initially they evacuated
that area. As soon as they realized that they were dealing with a larger issue and more
potential for injury or damage, the decision was made to contact the principal of the school
and the SRO supervisor coordinated an evacuation of the school with the principal. Students
were escorted to the football stadium where they remained until the end of school day
and arrangements were made to get them home.
And pause it right there. And let's just remember something here. This is not rhetoric. Pause
it right there, guys. This is not rhetoric. The radical left in America has actually allied
with ISIS. And you say, oh, that's absurd. That's crazy. Now you're, no, no, no, no, no.
Think about it. Who stands up for radical Islamic terrorists when they do a crime or
when they kill people? The left every time. And they say it's your fault for reporting
on it. It's your fault for saying it's happening. You're triggering them. That's them standing
up. Who enables? Who enables ISIS? Well, who was it that flooded money and arms into the
Middle East and help with the proxy wars? Well, that was the Obama administration. That
was the Bush administration. Okay. And now who is enabling them by having open borders
in this country? And then I guess if you want to take it a step further and say social media
that's apparently watching everything conservatives are doing or just ignoring radical terrorism
going on.
So yeah, if anyone is radical, if anyone is aligned with ISIS, the radical left and radical
Islam is kind of merging right now. I mean, just look at Linda Sarsour. She's totally
radical ISIS. She goes out and she gets a bunch of radical leftists to go out and protest
with her.
And then they want to act like you're crazy because you report on Sweden. You show what's
going on in Sweden. Then they say you're an Islamophobe and you say, oh, I'm an Islamophobe
because I don't want rape to go up like a thousand percent in my country when you bring
in a bunch of radical Islamist refugees that just don't know any better. That's where they
come from. So they come into Sweden where there's actually a civilization and they
just tear it to the ground because they don't know how to behave. They don't know any better.
That's what you get. And that's what the left is doing. Let's go back to the authorities
in Utah.
PIO for the school district discussed those issues. And I'll get through it all and then
we'll hit questions. Sorry. So in response to the observations made, the regional bomb
unit was contacted to respond, as was the fire department. We had responses as well from
federal partners to include the country.
We contacted IHC, who has a canine that's trained in detecting explosive or hazardous
types devices. That employee was off duty, but still volunteered or came in to respond
and provided resources to our department and the investigators. A person of interest has
been identified at this point and is being interviewed to determine what the circumstance
is.
Exactly. So pause it right there. The crew just comes to my ear. They're like, oh, so
this is the opposite of Parkland. You actually did your job. You actually followed through.
They're in Coward County. They totally blew it. Yeah. Yeah. You had, I mean, folks, when
you actually counted 66 different opportunities, the authorities had to stop Nicholas Cruz
from doing this between the warnings, the school had, the FBI had, the police had, the
families had, everybody had, you're counting at least 66 times. They could have done something
about it.
Nobody did anything, at least the ones in authority that could have done something. And then here
you have the situation in Utah and they're like, yeah, we responded. We did what we had
to do. People put their lives in line to try to stop this explosive. Let's let them finish.
In the backpack that had the potential to injure persons or damage property. I won't
be able to go into the nature of that item or any details at this point. Again, it is
an ongoing investigation, but the units investigating that aspect of this incident have confirmed
that there was an object in that backpack to cause that concern. I'd like to, before
we go on to questions, there's been a lot of moving parts involved in this incident.
We've had responses again from Washington County Sheriff's Office that help support
our patrol units. Our patrol units have been here, man. Okay. Let's, let's bring that down.
So again, there are the authorities out there in Utah addressing the media as to what happened
with the backpack or in the attempted bombing of the school in Utah. And of course, what
is, I mean, who, who does backpack bombings radical Islamic terrorists? I mean, those
are the people that line backpacks with bombs and then detonate them, whether it be at concerts
in the streets now at schools. But the question is why, why is this happening in my country?
Why do we have shooters? Why do we have these people blowing people up? What, what is happening
in this country? Why do we have people literally defecating on the streets, masturbating on
the subway? Why, why is all this going on folks? It's a mental health issue. This country
is mentally ill. It's mentally sick. We have to, we have to fix our mental health if we're
going to be able to fix anything. We got a bunch of crazies running around. They're literally
crazies tired of being censored by Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Patreon. Well, now you
don't have to be one way.com is the free speech and human friendly social network built just
for you. Stop feeding the beast. Every post you make on those evil anti human, anti American
perverted sites helps them destroy our families, our country and our souls. Join one way today
and take back your liberty. Your free speech alternative is waiting for you at one way.com,
one way.com. Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure
it's the best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified
water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com. We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the
place and what they don't steal will be destroyed. This year, resolve not to be the next victim
of a break in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone
inside is watching TV even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset and fake TV should
be part of your security solution. Be vigilant but not fearful. Faketv.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose
from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See
the guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality. Our
ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from
around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. Info
Wars Life wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality
in males. Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality
and energize your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality
today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Fill your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Info Wars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again. You
can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
It also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully
digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by Info Wars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now. That's infowarslife.com.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. Owen Shroyer filling in for Alex today. We're going
to be hearing from Alex in the next segment. Trump is speaking right now. He just delivered
about a 20-minute speech and the crew is going through that figuring out what exactly he
was addressing. But the main subject would be the lawsuit that was just announced against
California for aiding and abetting criminals in sanctuary cities. Of course, the name that
we think about now is Libby Schaff who, in my opinion, belongs in jail for aiding and
abetting. It's so crazy. You also got now, in fact, if somebody would actually bring
me that story, because this is actually important, so they're trying to pass this legislation
in Florida now. Some of the bullet points include raising the age of purchasing. Is
it just rifles or is it any firearms from the age of 18 to 21? You've also got the bump
stop stock ban, which is actually worded anything that increases the rate of fire. So they'll
come after triggers and scopes and handles and whatever else is next. They want to have
a three-day waiting period. You know, here's my problem with a waiting period. I get it.
But if somebody's getting a weapon to try to just do mass murder or whatever, they'll
wait three days. So I really only think, I don't think it serves any purpose, because
think about it. Let's say you're in a situation where you feel maybe you need a gun tomorrow
and you can't get it. So now you're screwed. I don't like this. I don't like this. But
here's what they're going to do. They throw in the $400 million for mental health and
so you have to sign it. That's how they're going to sell this thing. Oh, if you're not,
if you don't sign this bill, you're stopping us from getting the necessary mental health
measures here. So we'll look into some of these details. Again, though, the story, NPR
is covering it. Florida State approves gun control package. Florida Senate approves gun
control package. OK, is arming some school personnel. So yeah, if you're on campus but
not a full-time teacher, you can carry concealed. So there's your, OK, let's protect the students.
And then the $400 million. All right, let's, you know, let's do something for mental health.
And then they want to do metal detectors in schools, bulletproof glass in schools. And
you know, again, they talk about, you know, having crisis teams and school resource officers.
Folks, the authorities in Broward County, Coward County failed those students. They
failed. So how do you know the next people aren't going to fail? And they think that
this is going to pass. And I don't see anywhere in here that their mental health facilities,
including opening mental health institutions. I mean, you need to put people in mental health
institutions, folks. They closed them back in the 90s. We need them more than ever. I'm
sorry. We just do. So the waiting period is for any gun three days. Sorry, folks, this
bill is no good to me. Nope. This bill sets a bad precedent. Can't support it. And again,
this isn't the answer. This is not the answer to what happened at the floor to shooting.
It's not even close. It's not even close because what happened was a failure of personnel.
What happened was a failure at the FBI. What happened was a failure in local law enforcement.
What happened was a failure during the shooting. So this doesn't fix anything. But we have
to do something. So that's what they do. So they have to do something. So then they just
do something, even if it doesn't actually do anything. It's really unbelievable. But
you know what? You've got other big news here. I mean, this is so bombshell. Look at some
of the precedents that are being set in Seattle today. This is from zero hedge. Seattle police
began gun confiscations, no laws broken, no warrant, no charges. You see, this is all
about what Eric Holder talks about. This is all about what the Democrats talk about, brainwashing
people into thinking differently about guns, brainwashing people to literally shake in
their boots when they just see a gun or the thought of a gun comes up. So this individual,
people call authorities on him because he just happens to conceal Kerry or he's apparently
looking out his window at some shop across the street or something. And so authorities
come and take his guns. Neighbors complained that the man had been staring at people through
the storefront windows while wearing a holstered firearm. So I don't know what that's all about.
I mean, who knows? Maybe he's just standing out looking out his window, drinking a cup
of coffee. Just has his firearm on his side. Oh, you're a danger. We got to take that firearm.
So who knows what the full story here is, but they confiscated his gun illegally. That's
the story. I mean, so what's next? I'm telling you, folks, they've already brainwashed these
people into being so afraid of guns. If they see a gun, they go crazy and they call authorities.
Just if they see a gun, just if they see a gun, that's mental illness. That's the brainwashing
that the Democrats have been trying to instill in this country saying that you have to brainwash
people into thinking differently about guns. You have to brainwash weak-minded people. You
have to brainwash weak-minded people into being so afraid of guns. The mere sight of
a gun sends them into some sort of shock. And they have to do something. Oh, oh my gosh.
That man has a gun. Oh my gosh. Somebody call the authorities. And that's how their mind
works. And they freak out and they go into a panic just at the sight of a gun. That's
the brainwashing by the media. That's the brainwashing by Hollywood. That's the brainwashing
by the Democratic Party that Eric Holder told you they were going to do. And so now they've
done it. So then a mass shooting happens. They don't address any of the actual problems.
They just signed gun control legislation because we have to do something. And in Seattle, oh
my gosh, that man has a gun. And then the police come and say, sir, you've broken no
laws. You haven't violated anything. We're taking your gun because this, this, this
libtard over here just freaked out and called us. So we have to, we have to do something.
So we have to do something. So now he loses his gun. And so now Seattle has set that precedent.
So now the next crazy liberal is going to call the police on their neighbor that has
a gun. And then they're going to take that because the neighbor looked at them the wrong
way. Oh my gosh. My neighbor came home drunk last night at one a.m. I know he's got a gun
in there. I'm scared. And then they come up, sir, we heard that you were drinking late
last night. You have a gun in here. He's like, well, yeah, okay, I was out drinking. I didn't
take my gun with me. It's locked. Sir, we're going to have to confiscate that weapon. Your
neighbor's scared. Then a Seattle judge, a homeless man in Seattle, Seattle's homeless
problems out of control, just like everywhere else on the West Coast. Homeless man's truck
gets impounded. He can't afford to get it out. He sues. The judge says that's your home.
Your home can't be impounded. Now he gets his truck back and he can park his truck anywhere
he wants because it can't get impounded. Do you realize the precedent just set in Seattle?
So now homeless people are going to park their cars and trucks wherever they want. And you
can't do anything about it because they run the town. Noncitizens and homeless bums now
run Seattle. Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick, meaty, center cut, presidential
bacon, savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration
needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated,
ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served, life saving, ready to eat
bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and
being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well. And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to
say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks
for the Anthroplex, too. Thank you.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars
life products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much
for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely. Because then we could all, as
educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems
going on. And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves,
we can take our country back.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWars. A 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarsore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number
three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been requesting
this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each
month. Just go to infowarsore.com, select your favorite product or products, click
on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know,
I coined the term 360 win. And with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com, this
is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping
on orders above $50. And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship. Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We
have found extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health
and normal breathing. This is pollen blood. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed
that people who ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress
symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. And against
studying the effects in published trials, in their published trials, now we are introducing
the fruit of the research, a fast acting chewable tablet, just two, two tablets at the first
sign of seasonal distress and fast acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes
to help alleviate seasonal distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting
pollen block available now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll 3-888-2533139.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones here with an update for the viewers and listeners asking where I am during these
huge political firestorms that are taking place and all the demonization of Infowars.
Well, I haven't taken off in about a year to take my family anywhere. So I'm enjoying
some of the great freedoms of capitalism and all the incredible things it builds like
here in the mountains of Vale in Colorado. So we can come out here at snowboard and ski
and watch the world championships, snowboarders and also ride the tubes down the mountains.
We're having a great family time out here. And yes, we've had this frivolous lawsuit
filed by Pepe the Frog creator. We've talked to our lawyers. They say 100% slap statutes
are in. It's a fake lawsuit. You can even create the buster for a third party selling
it. We can't believe that they're this reckless. It's like the EEOC false filings. Those are
totally reckless. All of it's just completely insane and totally reckless. Ladies and gentlemen,
we have been attacked for the term real news and have court cases against us. The people
saying that's trademarked. It is amazing what's going on and what's unfolding. And
we've gotten to the point with this Pepe the Frog situation and with all the other
behavior that's going on where we're going to have to counter sue very aggressively
and of course get attorney's fees and damages so that people know that, hey, we've been
nice this long, but that has an end because the left everywhere is saying hashtag hunt
Republicans. They are trying to shut down free speech. They are trying to shut down
our channel. CNN is involved trying to get rid of our sponsors and have us banned off
YouTube. So as you look out here, this amazing vista and we see what we've built in America.
They have mountains like this in North Korea, but there's nothing there because the people
can't build anything. They can't even produce cars in North Korea or Venezuela and the people
are starving to death. So this is real authoritarianism that's coming after us and we're going
to have to fight back because you've been standing behind us. We're going to be able
to defeat it, but it shows you where the globalists want to take us. It shows you what they want
to do to us, give their successful and how they have our children captive in the public
schools, how Hollywood is trying to bully everybody in the submission. But the good
news is whether it's the NFL or whether it's Hollywood or whether it's the Oscars or any
of this, they're all in free fall because the people aren't under their cultural control
anymore. And I quite frankly am honored in this culture war as a libertarian just trying
to promote real open free societies that a criminal like George Soros, a Nazi collaborator
and CNN and media matters and MSNBC and all these other groups are piling on and finding
useful idiots to help them attack me because we're fighting in the 21st century for the
real restoration of this republic. And usually people have to fight and physically die to
restore a country to freedom or to get freedom. And so I'm just having to be demonized and
attacked and lied about and sued because they're trying to intimidate everybody else. This
isn't about me. There's massive internet censorship expanding. Apple's outlawing with
communist China. There's draconian attacks on free speech going on everywhere across
the Western world. And so they think by picking me out, they can make you think, hey, if you're
a populist, if you're a nationalist, if you're a conservative, if you're a constitutionalist,
if you're a free market guy, you're going to be destroyed. The truth is capitalism built
all of the technology and all of the theme parks and all the malls and all the medicine
and all the science and the literature and the art. Nothing comes out of these communist
regimes but hell and oppression because it's oppressors that run it and control it. They're
systems of conquest, not systems of liberation and freedom. And that's just a fact. And so
history is on my side and so we will win. But they have gone from a lawsuit a month
to a lawsuit a week now because they're getting pissed because they're all getting thrown
out of court. The Communist Party USA is suing me, saying I attacked some guy or had people
attack him at the RNC and no such thing as the truth. It's just crazy. Everybody knows
I'm free speech. I don't agree with burning the flag but you're right to do it. So I'm
in good company in all this. People need to understand and need to know that family does
come first in the end of the day. And I've been filing some reports from the road here,
but not as many just because I'm confident no we're going to win because you're strong
and you understand these attacks on free speech are attacks on you. They're attacks on your
speech to shut down these platforms. And then when they filed four strikes on us last week
to shut our YouTube down and YouTube didn't shut us down, they said they were fake strikes.
The Washington Post came out and said along with BuzzFeed that we made it up. You saw
the thousands of channels deleted or blocked or frozen. You saw them freeze our channel.
You saw show you the strikes. But again, that's how dumb they think you are. Like you have
no memory. You've seen CNN going after our sponsors and CNN trying to get us banned and
CNN trying to block the publishing of my book, The War for the Future with Neil Strauss.
I mean, this is, if I heard something about this in another country on NPR about this
much censorship against one person, I wouldn't believe it. But again, they attack and then
they could joke out of their attacks on free speech that are the most epic and most draconian
I've ever seen. I mean, this is concerted fraud. And so get ready for the offensive because
our listeners have been supporting us. They've been spreading the word. We're getting record
traffic info wars.com. You've been buying the products got huge sales going right now.
And I just hope all these lawsuits doesn't affect our expansion on the TV and so many
other places we're reaching so many people. And right now we're neck and neck with the
donations and people buying products are coming in just enough to pay for the half million
dollars I'm happy to have to spend. A lot of these lawyers are pro bono, but I got to
pay for the lawsuits to be filed, the plane tickets, the hotels, the people that take
the transcripts, the experts, all of it. So we're lining up five lawsuits right now about
100,000 a piece, anti slapbacks, all of it for everybody. And so that's it. And a lot
of lawyers are in major law sites saying the same thing. They're going, God, these, these
lawsuits are fake. There's anti slap suit stuff. So these fake lawsuits, people pay for
this, but they're being financed by big money. They don't even care. And that's the crazy
part is these are so reckless. It tells you the globalists are willing to do anything.
Hell, they're on CNN saying they're going to kill the president. Anyway, check out that
great snow cloud. But what you know is they're fighting to keep you from visiting info wars.com
and news wars.com. Everything wholesome, everything good, everything true, everything
productive is under attack by the globalist. And the fact that I'm one of the people most
attacked, but I still live in this great free country and the memory of freedom we have is
still holding them back. We're going to take that memory and plant that seed. And they thought
they buried me, but they didn't, they didn't know I was a seed. I forget who said that
they thought they buried me. They didn't know I was a seed. Thank you all. I'll be filing
more live reports throughout the week and more tape reports and I'll be back Saturday
with the family back in the ATX. But thank you all. We're just all in this together and
I salute you and I thank you and we'll defeat these people trying to destroy our free speech
trying to enslave our nation. God bless you all.
And while Alex is out there in the snowy mountains of Colorado, I thought I would just
mention that you've got Nor'easters brewing in New England and they're about to have a
second wave of them. You also got huge snowstorms in the UK as well. So now you see why they
quit crying global warming. Now you see why they quit saying man made global warming and
simply changed it to man made climate change. Well, because they were wrong and their formulas
were wrong about global warming. Sorry, they're wrong on global warming and climate change
just like they're wrong on everything else and all their policies. But folks, we've got
huge specials at InfowarsStore.com right now. You just heard Alex talk about the lawsuits
that we're dealing with and they want to crush us. They think that they can crush us by bringing
all these lawsuits and then financially break our backs and then force Infowars to regress
and force Infowars to downsize. But thanks to your support, we can take on these lawsuits
and deal with this and still expand. So unprecedented specials right now at InfowarsStore.com 30
to 80% off store wide plus free shipping store wide. So check out all the specials 50% off
super male and super female vitality 50% off the real red pill 50% off true way protein.
The specials just go on and on from there. Brand new product prebiotic fiber prebiotic
fibers 50% off. It's just huge specials right now at InfowarsStore.com 80% off some of the
apparel. So support us help us expand. They're trying to downsize us right now. But with
your support, we continue to expand. We'll be right back on the other side with more
news. This is the Alex Jones show. Don't go anywhere. Introducing floor life. The new
probiotic line developed exclusively by Infowars life after years of research on the human
microbiome. Not all probiotics are made the same. Floor life probiotics use a unique targeted
delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines
for maximum effect. This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics. So if
you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and
your wallet. Floor life supports your body's core where you need it most, including digestion,
regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did you know that over 80% of your immune
system is located in your gut? That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important
for overall health. Floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance
care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program. Head to
info wars life.com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today. That's info
wars life.com. Electrify your day with secret 12. It's like
lightning in a bottle. We all have days in which we just can't seem to perform at the
level we'd like to. Info wars life secret 12 is designed to naturally energize your
body and mind with two great tasting and super high quality forms of vitamin B12, proper
vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to keep your body functioning at optimum levels.
The reality is it's hard to take in the proper amount of vitamins we need each day with our
modern diets. Secret 12 by info wars life is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin
B12 intake and support your body's natural systems. It pairs two forms of vitamin B12
into one explosive formula. Vitamin B12 supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell
formation and aiding in the body's natural processes. But it also assists with many other
functions of the body. Electrify your mind and body and take your help to the next level.
Experience the power of secret 12 at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com.
Introducing cell force by info wars life. Cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular
engines. Cell force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria.
Much like a cellular engine overhaul because when your mitochondria don't run at 100%
efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that
aging is most likely caused by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals. Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from info wars life.
Introduced to info wars life.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80. It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf and so much more. It is concentrated. You need
to go read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate. A citrus peel blend. I mean this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall. I think it's beyond seasonal.
Check, look and olive leaf and more. Immune wall, info wars store.com, info wars life.com
or triple 8-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. Now,
you know that establishment media is failing right now if you focus mainly on the ratings.
Movie attendance is down, Super Bowl, NFL ratings down, Oscar ratings lows. Everything
that the liberals have destroyed, everything that the liberals have conquered and then destroyed,
the ratings are crashing. Late night television, you know, what have you. And Jimmy Kimmel,
the walking knish, Jimmy Kimmel blames Netflix for record low Oscars ratings following Trump
tweet. Now, I'll get into that theory in a second, but first let's actually go to Jimmy
Kimmel here responding to Trump's tweet about the record low rating Oscars.
I got a little surprised this morning. I woke up, I brushed my teeth, I looked at my phone,
I got a texting, look at Trump's Twitter account as if I wasn't going to do that anyway. That
is what I do every morning. And so I did and this is what I see. Lowest rated Oscars in
history problem is we don't have stars anymore, except your president. Just kidding, of course.
He's not narcissistic, it's just Joe. No, neither are you, Jimmy. I love saying the ratings
are down to insinuate that is a show of some kind of support for him. But the truth is,
every year since Netflix happened, ratings are down for every big TV show. Did Super
Bowl Grammys, Emmys Golden Globe, but Trump thinks he caused the ratings to go down. So
since I was the host of the Oscars, I felt like that's not what he's saying, Jimmy.
He called me to respond. So I tweeted him, thanks lowest rated president in history.
Except that's not true. Oh, but wait a second. Wait a second, that's not true. Trump's ratings
are actually going up and he's actually higher than Obama now. So, oh yeah. Puzzle right
there. See, this is the funniest thing about these people. Jimmy Kimmel just says, it's
like when President Obama says, at least I'll be president and Trump is the president,
Obama thinks he'd get some big insult, at least I'll be the president. And then the
crowd's like, oh, he got him there. And then Trump becomes president. And then Jimmy Kimmel
goes, oh, really funny lowest rated president of all time. Except he's not the lowest rated
president of all time. In fact, you had stories today, support rising for the GOP tax overhaul.
That's bipartisan. President Trump's approval rating is right on par, if not ahead of Obama's
at this point of his first term. So sorry, Jimmy, not only are you not funny, you're
also inaccurate. Let's go back to Kimmel.
Trump always has a problem with the Academy Awards, which is surprising because I really
think he would love the best picture winner in the shape of water. It's the movie, if
you haven't seen it, it's about a monster that has sex with a woman who can't talk about
it. Basically, it's like his life story, as everyone's making up stories about Trump,
like they can't talk about it. That's all the media ever talks about. You talk about
it every night.
DJ TJ Donald Trump, Jr. took a break from selling tickets to the White House to tweet
about the Oscars to he retweeted. He retweeted this, raise your hand if you didn't watch
the second the Oscars. And then he added an emoji of a raised hand to indicate that
he didn't watch. And you know, if you look closely, you know that's an authentic Trump
hand because it's gold and tiny.
Nice laugh track. Now here's the thing about what Kimmel is insinuating. There is an element
of truth. Yes, why are TV ratings down? Why is attendance at movies down? Yes, a lot of
that does have to do with the new media being on the internet, the Netflix is the Hooloos
and everything like that. I mean, even the info wars. I mean, why do you think that,
you know, CNN's ratings are tanking like the Titanic? Well, people would rather watch info
wars. Our ratings go up, their ratings go down. I mean, that's how this works.
But there's a not a silver lining here. It's a it's a it's a I would say a gray lining
here because here's another angle to this that Kimmel's not going to tell you. Yes,
some of it have to do with new media and Netflix and everything. Sure. But that doesn't necessarily
explain why NFL ratings are down. That doesn't necessarily explain why the Oscar ratings
are down. You can't really go elsewhere to watch those programs where with movie theaters,
you can say, yeah, okay, maybe people would rather stay at home and watch Netflix. But
why would people stop watching the Oscars? Why would people stop watching the NFL usually
the highest rated events on on any given time? Well, that's because you, Jimmy Kimmel and
the rest of your liberal friends in Hollywood have destroyed people's interest. And that's
the truth. So while you can maybe say that the reason movie attendance is down is because
of Netflix, people don't watch the the grand Hollywood celebrations because we're sick
of you. Because we're sick of your liberal indoctrination. We're sick of your nonsense.
We're sick of your lies. We're sick of your attacks on our president. We're sick of your
attacks on our country. We're sick of your assault on reality and truth. But there's
another angle to this too. There is it. See, Trump is actually right when he says problem
is we don't have any stars anymore. He's 100% right. He is 100% accurate. You see, going
to the theater, the only movies that actually really sell anymore are either the movies
that already have tradition like Star Wars or something like that, or some movie that
gets huge amounts of hype like the Black Panther. It used to be someone like Jennifer
Lawrence would be considered a movie star. And then people would go watch her movies
no matter what because they loved her work. But she's poisoned her audience with her liberalism.
And so there's not that interest anymore. Nobody wants to go see Jennifer Lawrence anymore
because they can't stand her. That's the angle they're not going to tell you. See, nobody
wants to go watch Jennifer Lawrence on a big screen anymore because all they can think
about is that dumbass liberal. Nobody can watch the NFL. I shouldn't say nobody. A lot
of people can't watch the NFL anymore because they can't get that image of the players kneeling
out of their head. So they watch the game and the whole thing is spoiled because all
they can think about is the people protesting the national anthem. So they've poisoned
their own brand. They've poisoned their own product. That's why movie theater attendance
is down. Does Netflix have something to do with it? Yes, but do not be mistaking. People
are sick of liberals in Hollywood telling us how to feel and telling us how to think.
That is why people don't go to the movies anymore because they don't want to see people
like Jennifer Lawrence. Now, you've got a student, Anthony Borges, 15, is suing the
Broward County Sheriff's Office, the school district and the principal and resource officer
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. He was shot five times using his body to shield
others while they were fleeing. This young man is a hero and he's suing the people that
actually failed. That's right. The Broward County Sheriff, the school district and the
resource officer, etc. FBI should be in there too. But you notice he's not suing the gun.
He's not suing the gun manufacturer. Huh? He's not suing the NRA. Isn't that interesting?
Funny how liberals point the finger in all the wrong directions and then the actual hero
victim is going after the actual people responsible for this. Then on Fox News last night, Kyle
Kashuv, who they used to ignore, is calling out David Hogg for being hypocritical. Here's
that clip from Fox News. I want to play David Hogg, who has been out there a lot. He's
become, you know, sort of very familiar to Americans. Here he is speaking out for his,
on his side. Watch this. I actually hung up on the White House the other day. They actually
called me the day before the listening session and asked if we were going to come. And I
said, I'm not coming because we expect President Trump to come to the CNN town hall. And I
ended on this message with them. I said, President Trump, we don't need to listen to President
Trump. President Trump needs to listen to the screams of the children and the screams
of this nation.
Now, pause it right there. Pause right there real quick. Now, this is something very important
to understand. This is liberal arrogance. So now, unfortunately for David Hogg, he's
been so indoctrinated by the liberals. He now has this sick, poisoned liberal arrogance.
I'm high and mighty. I'm bigger than President Trump. I'm bigger than you. I'm bigger than
everyone. I'm a liberal. I've got the high ground. I've got the moral high ground. I'm
calling for taking the guns. You support the Second Amendment. You're the bad guy. I'm
the good guy. I'm David Hogg. I'm bigger than the President. Yep. That's right. Oh, yeah.
Go back to, go back to Fox News now.
You know, I'm really trying to control my anger at what he said because, you know, the
president calls you and it shows he wants to make a change and you're talking about partisan
change and the one man who controls, who leads our nation, you know, comes to you and is
like, look, let's do something. Let's make it happen. And you hang up the phone on him.
That's so hypocritical. You know, he was, David Hogg, but again, you can bring that
down. But again, this, see, look, I feel bad for David Hogg. Now he is totally exuding
all liberalism, all Lib Tardation, the arrogance, the high and mighty moral high ground arrogance,
and then the double standard. And then the double standard. Just as Kyle points out,
here's President Trump calling you to have the conversation you said you wanted to have
and you ignore it like you're bigger than it. You don't actually want to solve the problem.
See, again, that's a liberal in a nutshell, doesn't actually want to solve the problem
and arrogantly thinks they have all the answers. That is the average liberal in a nutshell.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida. Victor, you're calling. Go ahead.
Yes. Hi, Alex first. I just want to mention if people just go and try the products, they
will be ordering all the time. I've ordered several of the products over and over because
it's amazing. In particular, silver bullet, I, as soon as I start to feel like I get a
little stick, you know, maybe like a little raspiness in my throat, I drop some silver
bullet and it like, I'll still feel a little stick, but it won't last as long. And I just
ordered the body, the alpha power and the pollen block.
Well, let me just say something, Victor. It's people like you that then find the whole operation
because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage of them
buy a lot of the products. So thank you. But when you mention the silver bullet, colloidal
silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98% review. It is our highest reviewed product
because it is from the top lab in the country discounted high quality colloidal silver.
And it's not a silver bullet, but it's the closest thing you're going to find to a silver
bullet.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals. Info wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males. Support your body and mind and take yourself to the
next level. Boost your vitality and energize your life. Take control of your body. Grab
a bottle of super male vitality today at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. You found it. The tip of the spear. It is the
Alex Jones show with Owen Troyer. Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. Well, you had
Jeff Sessions wake up from a coma and address the illegality and the issue with sanctuary
cities. Then you had Trump also echo that in statements that he made. But now Jerry Brown,
the governor of California is fighting back against this saying it's an act of war. Well,
not wait a second. I tell you this is so 1984. It's like I just have to just like if you're
at war. Okay. If you're at war, what is one of the things that happens? You get invaded.
You get invaded by foreigners. That's what's happening in California. And Jerry Brown is
endorsing it. So here's Jerry Brown actually endorsing what would be considered an act
of war and invasion of foreign people and then destroying his state. I mean, the state
of California has so much debt, feces on the streets, needles on the streets, drug epidemics,
homeless epidemics, totally out of control, totally invaded by foreigners, an act of war
on California. And then here comes the federal government like California, you're out of
control. You're you're lawless. We have to do something about it. And then Jerry Brown
says that's an act of war. Let's go to this clip from Jerry Brown, an act of war. You
said that that's pretty strong. Oh, it's all a joke. It's all a joke. We're just breaking
the law retaliates to what the federal government. No, we we're a state of laws. No, you're
not. Observe the law and you ignore the law. Can you believe this basically from the gauntlet
down and done it in a highly politicized way. This is never. Jerry, you have destroyed the
state of California. So the attorney general is coming out here. He gives a speech. You
are. You are a rat. You rat to Washington. What does that do? I mean, that's not creating
the comedy that a state and the federal government needs. So yeah, this is a very aggressive
act on the part of the Trump administration. And it's not right. You are. You are such
a trader. As I say, I'm sure this lawsuit has more longevity than the Trump administration
itself. Okay, so Jerry Brown has destroyed California destroyed. I mean, I'm I'm I'm
struggling to even wrap my mind around this. California riddled with homelessness, riddled
with disease, wide open borders, ridden with all illegal citizens, sanctuary cities, feces
in the streets, needles in the streets, homeless epidemic, dizzy. I mean, just total destruction.
I mean, California is just a nightmare. A liberal utopia, a total nightmare. So so here's
comes Trump and the DOJ and say, look, you got to have a border. Okay. And then you cannot
aid and abet criminals that are here illegally. You know, you have Kate Stineley get murdered
and the illegal non citizen immigrant gets away with that. You got feces in the streets.
Oh, I mean, you got all it's just total madness. Literally, California just collapsing, falling
apart. Half of the state wants to wants to get out. The other half of state wants to
form a new California. And so the federal government's trying to get it under control
like, okay, just have a border. Stop protecting illegals. Stop protecting criminals. Just,
you know, get yourselves under control. And then here's Jerry Brown like, how dare they
I'm going to destroy the state of California. If President Trump thinks he can stop me from
destroying the state of California, he's wrong. If Jeff Sessions thinks he can stop Libby
chef from breaking the law and aiding and abetting criminals, they are wrong. I'm Jerry
Brown. I'm going to see I'm going to destroy California and nobody's going to stop me.
I'm so excited. The new product that m4warslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red bill. This is a heart and brain
pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because
it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing
to their patients, but it wasn't prescription. But they were charging people $100, $200 for
the formulae. And I came up with our own formula working with scientists and developers, non
GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at m4warsstore.com and your
purchase fuzz the operation.
You are listening to an info wars.com frontline report. If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance. All right, so we just heard from Jerry Brown. He's going to continue
to let California turn into a total hole and he's proud of it. He's going to continue
to allow people like Libby Shaff and the other authorities in California break the law and
aid and abet criminals and they're going to fight back against the federal government
trying to get California out of under control, a totally out of control failed state turning
into a third world nation.
Folks, I've got friends in San Francisco. They work their tails off and they can barely
even afford to live in a home that is one block outside of the feces zone. And I'm talking
to them about it and they're just like, you know, oh yeah, that's just how San Francisco
is. You know, oh yeah, I wish something would be done about it, but oh, you know, it's just
what it is. Yeah, I walk outside and there's some, you know, some drug addict injecting
heroin right there. It's a clean needle though. And then he walks down the street and takes
a, takes a, you know what, and it's all good, baby. It's just California free love, free
love, baby. Yes, California wide open borders. Hey, come on into California. Yeah, shoot
a citizen. Yeah, just shoot her dead. Oh, you'll walk free. Don't worry about that. The ACLU
will make sure if you murder an American citizen and you're a non-citizen that you get off
without going to jail or anything like that. I mean, this is free love here in California.
If you're an American citizen, you're a piece of trash. If you're a non-citizen, you're
a hero and you can't do anything illegal unless you're Libby Shaft then and you're supporting
the invasion, then, and you're aiding and abetting criminals, then you're good to go.
But there's a future to California that they either want or they don't understand.
But it goes from one level, then it goes to the next level. Now, you've already got dreamers.
They protest in front of Pelosi's house. They protest in front of Schumer's house. They protest
in front of the DNC now. They say the Democrats don't want the dreamers here. So Trump totally
checkmated the Democrats on that. But the Democrats have enabled criminals, enabled lawbreakers
so much to the point now where they go out in front of ICE headquarters. See, this is
what happens when you have a mayor that is colluding with criminals, aiding and abetting
crimes saying the ICE is coming for you. Make sure you hide. That's illegal. She belongs
in jail. But now you have empowered these people. You've empowered lawbreakers to just
flaunt it in front of authorities. So here's a video from New Jersey. Illegal citizens
flaunting their unlawful status outside of ICE headquarters.
Today, March 5th is the day that Trump decided to wind down DACA. Obviously, the courts rolled
in our favor and said that he can't do that. He tried to make a DACA deal. The Democrats
refused it. Dreamers are being deported every single day. Our families, our communities
are being deported every single day. But March 5th is really the day that we're fighting
back. That's not even true. Look at these people. These people are nuts, man.
Why do you care about American people? You don't stand for American people.
Same on you, Donald Trump. Same on you Republican Party. We will win. You will lose. America
will be bigger than we are together. Thank you.
So see, that's it. Victory for them is destroying America. Victory for them is killing America,
destroying the borders. And then again, they say, Trump isn't doing anything to protect
us. It's all Trump's fault. Trump offered to give all you amnesty and the Democrats
turned it down. But you're so illiterate and you're so brainwashed, you don't even see
what's happening in front of your face. Now look, all of these people, if you're a DACA
recipient, okay, whatever, you're being protected right now. But you've got non-citizens. This
happens in Austin, Texas. Illegal immigrants, they march in the street. They have confidence.
They run this country now. You're an American. You've had multiple generations of people
serving in the military, multiple generations of American. You're a piece of trash. You're
scum. We don't give a hoot about you. We've got 20 million illegal citizens here. They
run the country now. That's why they march in the streets. That's why they go in front
of ICE. That's why they brag about it. That's why Lyndon Sarsour brags about it. They run
you now, buddy. This is the gangsterism of the left, MS-13, where MSNBC even admits to
you they won't report on MS-13. If you watch MSNBC, you've never heard of MS-13, the violent
gang. You only hear about that if you pay attention to conservative news. And then you
hear it. This is victory for us. We're going to bring in all of the illegals. We're going
to shut down the border. We're going to turn every state in the union into California a
failed third world state. And that's victory. I'm Governor Jerry Brown. I'm going to destroy
the state of California. And if the federal government tries to stop me from doing it,
well, we're just going to fight back. I'll get all my MS-13 gang members from the sanctuary
city to come out against ICE. We'll put them all in danger. And we'll have Libby Schaff
make sure that they're all aware when ICE is coming for them because they're the gangsters
and they run this state now. Jeff Sessions and Donald Trump think they can fix this state.
Not under my watch. I'm Jerry Brown. I'm Governor Jerry Brown. I'm a gangster thug. And I'm
going to destroy the state of California. You want to move to California? Oh, no, you
don't. No, you don't. We're run by gangs here now. You're going to get stabbed. You walk
around the streets. You might step in a pile of feces. Yeah, go ahead and move to California.
You think you can afford to live here? You can't afford Jack unless you're me, Jerry
Brown, unless you're Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters that live atop their big, big mansions.
And then everyone else lives in swalls, poverty and the swalls of society. I'm Jerry Brown.
I'm a thug. I run California now. But this is what happens when you have open borders.
Look at what happens to a Christian Somali woman who goes into a no-go zone in Sweden,
which they say doesn't exist. Really? Well, how does this happen then?
So she left Islam, she ditches her hijab, and she becomes a Christian. Now she receives
daily threats from the loving Islam radicalism. So now she goes to rinkbeat in one of the
no-go zones in Sweden without her hijabs. And she immediately gains a crowd. People
are following her. See, the gangsters run now. The thugs run
it now. Now they tell her they cursed her. They spit at her. They're angry at her. They
threaten her. So they have to leave because that's a no-go zone now. See, that's an invasion.
You open your borders, the radical jihadis come in, and then they have a no-go zone.
You're not allowed in because they're so loving and tolerant after all. I mean, it's just
a disaster. And so that'll happen in California next. That'll happen in Minnesota, and it'll
happen in California. And the liberals will say it's the most loving thing ever. And if
you don't send your daughter down to the no-go zone, well, you're just hateful. I mean, you'd
be lucky. You should be honored in Sweden if your daughter goes into the no-go zone and
gets raped by a bunch of radical jihadists. That should be your honor. How dare you say
anything negative about the invasion of an whole entire crowd of people from the Middle
East that then bring their culture of swallower and filth into the beautiful country of Sweden.
So now you can't even go out in the streets because it's a no-go zone, because they run
it now. See, it's just like in California. The thugs run California now. Now you go
to Sweden. We got hijabs on. We got our men. They run the women here, and they run everything.
And if you go into that, now it's the Swedish stand. If you go into the Swedish stand, you're
not even allowed in. You better have your hijab on, or we're going to spit on you, woman.
Because just like in California, we, the Islamists, we run Sweden now. Just like the illegal criminals
run California. The radical Islamists now run Sweden. But that's loving. That's liberal
to destroy your culture. That is liberal.
Here's a special message for those of you who owe the IRS at least 10,000 or more in
back taxes. The IRS has special programs in place that could eliminate or reduce your
tax debt by thousands of dollars. Call the federal tax management helpline that has
been set up for you, 800-503-8625. Stop the wage garnishments, levies, and tax leans now.
Once you've qualified and enrolled, the IRS will stop all the collection activities against
you. These unique programs have been allocated to help the economy and significantly reduce
or eliminate your tax burden. The IRS is currently accepting reduced settlements and other favorable
programs. You may qualify for substantial savings, so get the help you need. If you
owe more than 10,000 in taxes, call for free information and to see if you qualify. Take
down the number now for the federal tax management helpline, 800-503-8625. That's 800-503-8625.
800-503-8625.
Ever since ID Stronghold created RFID Blocking Wallet Technology over 10 years ago, major
designer brands have tried to create their own versions. But do they really work? We
let real people test designer brand RFID Blocking Wallets using the same rigorous testing ID
Stronghold Wallets go through. So how did the designer brands do? I expected notable brands
to perform well, and I was pretty surprised to see that it was not fully protective. Wallets
by those big brand names that I like and trust don't really do what they're advertising
that they do. Get a Stronghold on your credit cards, license, and other critical data with
ID Stronghold Wallets. Other RFID Blocking Wallets simply aren't the same. ID Stronghold
Wallets just outperform them in every aspect. I would definitely recommend ID Stronghold
Wallets to my friends and family. Check the label. If it doesn't say it's an ID Stronghold,
it's not. I'm very impressed with the ID Stronghold Wallet. Get the most trusted brand in RFID
Blocking Wallets and protect yourself from electronic pickpocketing. IDstronghold.com.
You know, I've got some talking points here about Caveman from infowarslife.com. But instead
of going on those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have the essence. We
know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick. Again, in every culture, this
has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints,
whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's
for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth
formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com.
What it can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for your support.
You are funding the Information War in 2018. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout
by InfowarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such
as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people
around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need
to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Come on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Welcome back to The Alex Jones Show. I am going to commit to just covering the rest of
this news before I hand over the baton to Roger Stone, who's going to be hosting the
fourth hour today. We may even have time to squeeze in some of your phone calls, but before
I get off track with that, let me just go headlong into this news here. Again, some of
the biggest stories today. A teenager in Utah tried to detonate a homemade bomb at Pine
View High School, said to be inspired by ISIS, boasts about how ISIS is coming and will
be victorious. One has to wonder how he gets that message into his head. Who is telling
him that? And if it is via social media, why is YouTube, Facebook and Twitter so obsessed
with shutting us down, but not stopping people that are actually trying to promote people
to do terrorist attacks in the name of ISIS? So that situation happened. Again, another
attack or what would have been an attack on a school. You have the Trump DOJ with sessions
making a statement today suing California over interference with immigration enforcement.
Maybe Shaft needs to be put in jail. I mean, it's like, what do you even do? California
is so messed up. It's like, how do you even fix that? I mean, I'm serious. See, here's
the problem. You want to know what the actual problem is? And I just want to be clear. I'm
not saying this is what I want. I'm not saying this is what should happen because this is
not what should happen in America. But honestly, the only way to fix California is an authoritarian.
The only way to actually fix California is for a dictator to come in and probably either
fire or jail all politicians out of California, at least those on the Democrat side. And again,
I'm not saying that's what should happen. I'm saying that's actually probably the only
hope that California would have. I mean, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, Jerry Brown, Libby
Shaft. I mean, these people have destroyed the state of California, folks. And who know?
I mean, where are all the highway funds going? You know what I'm saying? So anyway, but California
is not going to stop acting illegally. They're going to continue to do their sanctuary cities,
continue to have open borders, continue to have illegal voting, continue to have feces
in the streets, continue to have needles in the streets, continue to have just rampant
homelessness everywhere. That's the liberal fashion of California.
More good news, even though there was a bit of a hiccup, actually, I think it probably
recovered the stock market today, but private sector jobs grow by 235,000 in February. That's
40,000 more than expected. So the job market continues to grow under President Trump, but
somehow these bums can't find a job. Now, this is really one. Cable goes nuts for Nunberg.
It's almost perfect. His name is Nunberg because it's a nun story. CNN spends nearly 75% of
airtime on former Trump aide. CNN spent three hours and 50 minutes on Nunberg, an hour 23
minutes on everything else. This was from 330 to 11. And then MSNBC pretty much the
exact same story. And it turns out the guy, I mean, you know, I'm not trying to insult
the guy, but the guy was a drunk. So, so think about it. The left has now been trolled by
a drunk twice. Papadopoulos gets drunk and runs his mouth. And then Nunberg gets drunk
and runs his mouth. And the liberals put him on, even though they knew they probably knew
he was a drunk. I mean, heck, they're all drunk. And so they put him on. And then he
embarrasses himself and embarrasses CNN. And then Aaron Burnett says, you sound and smell
like you've had a few adult beverages. You knew that the whole time. And the only reason
you called him out for that is because he didn't go along with your fake news narrative.
Hilarious. The left can be trolled so easily right now. That's why CNN is sending a news
crew to go cover an Instagram model in Thailand.
Talk about election meddling. Nobody seems to have a problem with George Soros in the
Democrat Party. They're too busy looking up each other's butts for Russian collusion.
They're ignoring George Soros, who funds them all anyway. Soros chalks up another district
attorney win after dropping nearly $1 million in Texas race. Soros poured $7 million into
11 district attorney races across the country in 2015 to 2016. He's approaching like over
$50 million when you look at the all the consortium of all of the local elections that he's been
funding. Where's the Soros meddling? Where's the Soros influence on the election? Nobody
cares about that. A Nazi collaborator admitted it. CIA warns of extensive Chinese operation
to infiltrate American institutions. And then this has been a story for a long time. And
then President Trump, so you've got the trade wars going on. China wants to do something
about the $1 billion deficit, Trump says. Then Trump tweets out today talking about
these, go to Trump's Twitter. Now he didn't mention China in this, if I'm recalling correctly.
The United States needs to do something about the theft of intellectual property. Folks,
that is China. And I don't think he mentioned China in the tweet, but that is 110% China.
Who he's calling out with that? China is the one that's been stealing intellectual property
from America. You've had cases covered in mainstream news. Trump calls out China on
Twitter today to talk about that. This is in the middle of the trade war, in the middle
of trying to fix the deficit with China. So that's pretty heavy stuff there from the president.
All right, I will get to, I've got still two massive stacks of news that I need to get
to. One on the failing of liberal policies, and then the other one on just the absolute
nonsense of liberal policy. So we'll have both of those when we come back from this
break, getting ready for Roger Stone to host the fourth hour. But folks, again, we are
under attack lawsuits, censorship, DDoS attacks, pretty much everything that you can imagine
here at InfoWars. So we are launching specials. Now, when we have popular products and when
we are in demand for funding to fight these lawsuits or to expand our operation here,
we don't go with increasing prices or anything like that. We slash our prices. And so we've
got major price slashing going on right now at InfoWarsStore.com. Like most of the store
is about 50% off. A lot of the store is 30% off, up to 80% off some of the apparel right
now. And then free shipping store-wide. So if you're looking at a big ticket item like
emergency food supplies or a water filter or an air filter, free shipping is going to
save you a lot of money on those products. But 50% off super mail and super female vitality,
50% off the real red pill, 50% off biome defense 50, the probiotic, 50% off true-way protein.
It's all at InfoWarsStore.com. And again, free shipping store-wide. So take advantage
of these specials, help fund the InfoWars. If you're watching CNN or MSNBC and you're
like, man, what can I do to defeat Rachel Maddow, who just got the number one rating
in prime time television for news? Rachel Maddow. Now, I theorize that's because it's
like a circus. I mean, she's basically just like a three-ring circus up there. But she
defeated Hannity in the ratings. But if that bothers you and you want to see someone replace
that, you want to see real news, replace fake news, go to InfoWarsStore.com and support
our expansion. You have our word to expand in the face of the censorship with your support
at InfoWarsStore.com. All right, I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the
other side of the Alex Jones show. Don't go anywhere.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
I'm going to clear through the stack of news on the other side of the Alex Jones show.
That's what they do all day long. Look at the Trump-Russia collusion theory. Nothing there.
The radical left says that Trump colluded with Russia. Well, you look into it, it was actually
Hillary Clinton that colluded with Russia. It was a fake dossier with Russian sources
paid for opposition research by Hillary Clinton that was then used to illegally spy on President
Trump. So the left is the one that colluded with Russia again. So they say we are violent.
The political radical left says the right is violent. They're intolerant. Meanwhile,
they're so violent and intolerant. If you just go out in the streets with a Trump hat on,
they can't tolerate that. So they get violent with you or an infowars reporter goes onto a UT
campus and just has an infowars mic flag just interviewing people and radical leftists show
up and have to shut it down. And then, and then, and that's when you realize it. And this is the
trick. It's so simple. It's so simple that it's almost impossible to comprehend. And it's all
out of Saul Linsky's handbook. Everything that the political left right now, everything, literally
everything that comes out of the Democrat Party, everything that comes out of the radical left,
they're guilty of. Either these people are such criminals at the top, the Clintons, the Obamas,
the Schumers, the Pelosi's, that they have to point in the mirror except pretend they're pointing
at their political opposition and say everything they're guilty of, even though they know they're
looking right in the mirror. So then their street urchins do the same thing. You're acting like
a Nazi as they go out and chant and riot and protest and beat up the political opposition,
burn cities to the ground like they did in Berkeley. Just burn everything, topple everything.
You know, they do it in Berkeley. They do it in St. Louis, in Ferguson. They do it in Baltimore.
They do it in, where was the other one? I can't even think of it now, but that's what they do.
And then they say, we're violent. We're the Nazis. We're intolerant. We're against free speech.
And this is what we deal with. So now, in Seattle, they're trying to set a precedent. If somebody
sees you with a gun and gets triggered because you have a gun, and then they call it into police,
and the police determine that you have a mental problem, well, then that you're going to take
your gun. Now in Seattle, because homelessness isn't enough of an issue in Seattle. No, it's a huge
issue. Now the homeless just got even more empowered by a liberal judge. A homeless man had his
truck illegally parked for 72 hours. His truck was then impounded. And you know he's getting help
from the ACLU or some legal defense fund here. A homeless man can't afford an attorney, right?
Maybe he can. I don't know. And so, Seuss, because his truck gets impounded and the judge says,
you cannot impound this man's truck. It's his home. So now, the homeless man is so empowered,
he runs the city now. He can park his truck wherever the heck he wants, and it can't be impounded
because it's considered his home, says a Seattle judge. So this is what they do in California.
This is what they do in liberal cities. The most vagrant, vile, slovenly,
bums run the city. The hardworking, average American that goes to work, punches it in,
works hard, pays their rent, pays their taxes, busts their butt to try to have a career.
You don't get jacked. You are scum. You have to pay for all of the non-citizens. You have to pay
for all the homeless bums. That's why you work. See, if you live in California, and now they're
trying to do it in Texas, if you live in California, you don't work to build a family. You don't work
to build a career. Obama says you didn't even do that yourself. Someone else did that. You're
not working to establish some financial security. You're not working so that you can have a home
and have a family and have a future that you can then bestow to your lineage. No, no, no,
in California, you're working so that all of the illegal citizens can come into California and live
rent-free and live without being penalized for breaking the law. You're working your butt off
so that every homeless person can run the city, take a dump in the streets, shoot up with heroin
down the road, and then run the city. That's what you do now in California. And it's sick.
And this brings us to the midterm elections, folks. Now, I don't know what's going to happen. You're
seeing conflicting reports. If you believe the media during the entire 2016 presidential campaign,
of course, you would have been totally bamboozled. And they were. And that's why you got all these
video clips, all these compilations of liberal media just totally bamboozled at the results. Like,
what? We reported the exact opposite. How did this come true? So now you're seeing all the reports.
Texas may turn blue. Democrats having huge turnout, all this. So they're building up this narrative.
Democrats are going to be victorious. Democrats are coming for the House. Democrats are coming
for the Senate. Democrats are taking over. Everyone's voting Democrat. Is this another
fake news buildup? Is this another fake news story that they're trying to push on the American people
that's going to be totally proven wrong? I really don't know. I think it's hard to say at this point.
But I will tell you this. In these midterm elections, if we don't do what we can to get
a Congress that will get behind President Trump, get behind the Make America Great Again agenda,
just get behind basic law and order, then we actually have a chance to save this country.
But if the Democrats really do win Congress in the midterms and they get more radical liberals
in there, they get more Trumpators in there, they get more open borders, they get more criminals in
there, I just don't know. I don't know how we come back from this. I don't know how much more you
can take the liberal nonsense, folks. I mean, the state of California, how can it survive?
How can they survive? They can't survive. How can America survive? It won't survive. Democrats will
destroy this country, just like they destroy every city that they get elected in. Now, I'm about to
hand the reins over to Roger Stone here. Before I do, I have to remind you about the big specials
at InfowarsStore.com. They're coming after us. They're trying to ban us on social media, block
us on Twitter. They create fake news about us all day. We're under attack. But with your support
at InfowarsStore.com, not only are we able to shield ourselves and and resiliently still come
on air after the attacks, we're also able to grow. So InfowarsStore.com, fund us, help us grow in the
face of the globalist, of the Democrats, trying to shut us down. They hate free speech. They hate
that this broadcast destroys their narrative, so they want to try to shut it down. So fund us, and
we will continue to grow free shipping store wide, massive specials at InfowarsStore.com.
Roger Stone takes over on the other side. The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is
freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share
in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for
families. Choose from three health sharing programs. Polistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org. Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty,
center cut, presidential bacon. Savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some.
Awesome. No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life. NASA PAC technology. Bacon. Fully
cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon. Or warm and served. Lifesaving,
ready to eat bacon. 10-year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycooked
bacon.com. Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure, and high
cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy,
blood sugar, spikes, and drops, poor circulation, and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these
that can alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes
has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone
how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the
North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular
system healthy. Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. Or
order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life. Digestive enzymes
assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down
foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion
caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive enzyme production declines
as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again. You can eat protein-heavy foods now,
while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of
amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles. Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help
digest fats and carbohydrates, so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go
to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com. InfoWars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have
found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways to eye comfort and respiratory health and normal
breathing. This is pollen block. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who
ate certain quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms
like runny nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of the research,
a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two, two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress,
and fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now
at InfoWarsLife.com or by calling toll three triple eight two five three three one three nine.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You are listening to an InfoWars.com frontline report. If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance. And now your host, Roger Stone.
Welcome back. You're on the Alex Jones show and I'm your pinch-hitting host, Roger Stone.
Well, for those of you who may think that we're crying wolf when we talk about
internet censorship and the wide whole-scale effort by the tech left and the giants of Silicon
Valley to shut us down, think again. Yesterday, I noticed for the first time that Donald Trump
Jr. and Matt Drudge and the Drudge report are being censored. Links that they put up are
blocked with a box that says this information has been blocked because it is potentially too
sensitive. Says who? Snopes, a left-wing mom-and-pop shop that operates as the left-wing censors for
Google and YouTube. There's a terrific piece in Breitbart yesterday which accuses the tech left
of gangsterism. They correctly say you don't have to like Alex Jones to be concerned about the fact
that they are attempting to censor Alex Jones and Infowars on YouTube. Now, this is kind of funny
because yesterday when I appeared in a very contentious interview on MSNBC's Meet the Press,
after my interview, one of the talking heads in some parallel universe that's hard to identify
accused me of being a gangster. I'm not a gangster, I just dress like one. The real gangsters, however,
are the folks at Google and YouTube and Facebook and Twitter. They operate just like Al Capone.
Hey, nice Twitter feed you've got there. Sure would be a shame if anything happened to it.
What they want us to do is adhere to their world view to only say things that they approve. Well,
that's not what Infowars is all about. But for anyone who thinks that this is just the folks
at Infowars crying wolf to try to drive people to the Infowars store, think again. The entire
election and rise of Donald Trump would have been completely impossible without a vibrant and robust
alternative media, without the rise of the forces of freedom on the Internet. And now,
those who are still in shock over losing the 2016 election are now seeking to put the toothpaste
back in the tube. And they play games. Infowars has one strike at YouTubes. Infowars has two strikes.
Oh, that strike is removed. Now that strike is restored. Now it's gone again. Kind of reminds
me of when they said, oh, we we knocked President Trump off of Twitter, but it was a mistake. He
was only down for 11 minutes. Oh, we killed the Twitter feed of the journalist, Julian Assange.
Oh, we took Sean Hannity's Twitter feed down. It was a mistake. Somebody must have spilled Coca
Cola on the keyboard. Don't buy it. This is the most important fight of our time. Our prospects
in 2018 and 2020 are nil, but do recognize that Infowars is the test case. They are singling
us out for execution first. Why? Because we are the tip of the spear, because we are the most
aggressive in exposing the foibles of the globalists and the neocons and others who have brought
this country to its knees over the last eight years. It's a test case, folks. If we can cut
Alex Jones and the people at Infowars off at the knees, who's next? As Mr. Nolte says, John
Nolte at Breitbart, today it's Alex Jones. Tomorrow it's Breitbart. The following day, it's you.
You make no mistake about their game plan. What can you do about it? Well, you can do several
things. You can sign up at GAB and Mines and other social media platforms that don't censor ship
thought, that welcome anyone who wants to contribute and express and exercise their first amendment
rights. You can use Facebook but recognize that they too are now moving aggressively towards
censorship. What they call it is them deciding what news you should see. The most important thing
perhaps you can do is to gird us for the extraordinary fight ahead. Alex Jones and I
are working together with others to map out a multi-pronged strategy to confront and defeat
this effort of censorship. But we cannot do it without money. We don't have wealthy benefactors
who write multi-million dollar checks to Infowars. We can depend only on you, your family, your
friends, and your circle of patriots, your freedom fighting associates. Please go now to the Infowars
store and recognize that Alex Jones stands behind all of these products. In every case,
we are presenting deep discounts on some of our most popular items in an effort to get you to try
them because we're confident once you try them, you will be satisfied and you will order more.
So whether it is biome defense at 50% off, whether it is super male vitality at 50% off,
whether it is the entire range of super blue fluoride oral products, the toothpaste, the
mouthwash, in two flavors, these are the very best of the best. And you can see online, in many cases,
most cases, we have thousands and thousands of testimonials from satisfied Info Warriors.
So help yourself, help us, help the movement for freedom, help preserve the First Amendment,
help us in this fight. Now I have spoken at length about a couple of these products, but I'm going
to touch on this one again. Great whey protein, which I use as a meal replacement, is hard to find
when it's palatable. It's expensive, but it's very effective. I used to mix it with soy milk
until Rob do got me hip to the downside of too much soy. This product is on special today,
the whey protein, and I recommend it without reservation.
The other personal favorite is, of course, the immune wall. In this particular atmosphere,
the flu season, it's the best of the best. So load up on these products now and help us defeat the
sensors. It's an O-brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a
water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine
disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only two
cents per gallon? Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click
1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance. Become part
of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families. Choose from three health
sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's
libertyoncall.org. Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things
that will save you a lot of money while you get high-quality products and fund the info war.
A 360 win. Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your
order at infowarshore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock
when you sign up for auto-ship because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the
products that you need each month. Just go to infowarshore.com. Select your favorite product or
products. Click on auto-ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto-ship feature in infowarshlife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto-ship. Win, win, win at infowarshlife.com. Free shipping on
orders above $50. And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida. Victor, you're calling? Go ahead.
Yes. Hi, Alex. First, I just want to mention, if people just go and try the products,
they will be ordering all the time. I've ordered several of the products over and over because
it's amazing. In particular, silver bullet, as soon as I start to feel like I get a little
sick, maybe like a little raspiness in my throat, I drop some silver bullet and I'll still feel
a little sick, but it won't last as long. And I just ordered the body, the alpha power, and the
pollen block. Well, let me just say something, Victor. It's people like you that then find the
whole operation because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage of
them buy a lot of the products. So thank you. But when you mention the silver bullet, colloidal
silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98% review. It is our highest reviewed product because
it is from the top lab in the country discounted high quality colloidal silver. It's not a silver
bullet, but it's the closest thing you're going to find to a silver bullet.
Electrify your day with Secret 12. It's like lightning in a bottle. We all have days in which
we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to. InfoWars Live Secret 12 is designed to
naturally energize your body and mind with two great tasting and super high quality forms of
vitamin B12. Proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to keep your body functioning at
optimum levels. The reality is, it's hard to take in the proper amount of vitamins we need each day
with our modern diets. Secret 12 by InfoWars Live is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin
B12 intake and support your body's natural systems. It pairs two forms of vitamin B12
into one explosive formula. Vitamin B12 supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell
formation and aiding in the body's natural processes, but it also assists with many other
functions of the body. Electrify your mind and body and take your health to the next level.
Experience the power of Secret 12 at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation. It's Roger Stone.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. I'm your host, Roger Stone. One of the things that I have found
transcends left and right is our love of man's best friend, yes, our dogs. And we've talked here
on the war room and on the Alex Jones show about the ongoing process in which the Veterans
Administration in the Trump administration utilizes dogs and in some cases puppies as young as eight
weeks in barbaric medical experiments that I really question the value of. We have examples
of dogs being given crystal meth, dogs having holes drilled in their heads to see how long
they can survive, inducing heart attacks in poor defenseless animals, collapsing the lungs of dogs.
We are long past the time that any of this canine research can yield any valuable information.
I have written on behalf of the Daily Caller and InfoWars, calling on the Veterans Administration
Secretary David Shulkin to end these horrific barbaric practices. And what we got was a lie.
What we were told that it was that experiments of dogs will now require a higher level of approval.
Unacceptable. Please join me in emailing Secretary Shulkin now. Tell him to stop the bizarre,
barbaric, inhumane medical experiments on man's best friend. We're going to put up his address,
but you can reach him at david.shulkin at va.gov. That's david.shulkin, which is spelled H-U-L-K-I-N
at va.gov. We must get the Veterans Administration in the Trump era to end these horrific experiments
on dogs. They are yielding no useful medical information. They are outdated and bizarre.
Now, it's very important to note that the American war veterans recently came out against this
practice and urged Secretary Shulkin to end it. Don't tell us it will take a higher level of
approval, because that means that bizarre experiments are still being conducted on poor,
helpless, defenseless animals. Stop this process now. Let's put Secretary Shulkin's email up on the
screen as soon as we can. We need you folks, the info warrior audience, to email the Secretary
today. And in respectful terms, no name calling, not in all caps, but urge them to end medical
experiments on dogs. God will bless you. Many thanks. Now joining me is Jacob Engels of the
Central Florida Post. Jacob Engels had his own star turn on TV last week when he evaded the
screeners at CNN and got into a panel in which there was a discussion of gun control. That was
bad news for CNN because Jacob Engels is an articulate libertarian, a regular contributor
here at Info Wars. Jacob, tell us what happened on CNN. Well, it's great to be on the program,
and quite frankly, they deceptively edited parts of the interview that did not fit the narrative
of gun grabbing and gun control. I brought up the point of how Nazi Germany systematically
disarmed the citizenry, and we saw what happened there. I brought up the fact that in post-Civil
War, all the way up through Jim Crow era, apartheid races south in the United States,
had local state government systematically disarming African-Americans, and they didn't
want to air that because it made the point that there is a legitimate reason still for us to
exercise our second amendment right. They want to say that, oh, the government will never do
anything wrong. The government has no history of using the citizenry, and that's just flat out false.
This was riveting television to watch you. Now, moving on, you have written a piece
about the journalist Mike Izikoff. Now, let me say at the top that Mike Izikoff did some
extraordinary reporting, early reporting on corruption in the Clinton administration,
and was one of the reporters who reported early on about the serial sexual assaults of Bill Clinton
and Hillary Clinton's role in intimidating and bullying his victims. But more recently,
Mr. Izikoff's name came up as the journalist who the FBI used to plant a story that hyped the phony
dossier, then turning around and pointing to his story before the court as evidence that this was
real. You see, yahoo.com is writing about it, Your Honor. Therefore, it must be true. Tell us
about what you learned, Jacob. Well, we learned that in the investigation that Mr. Izikoff was
basing his data off a dirty dossier, first and foremost, and that he put up this what can only
be called an opinion piece. It's not factual. It's not based in reality. And yet the United
States government used it as a reason to obtain a warrantless FISA spying application to spy on the
Republican candidate for president of the United States. This is right out of Gestapo era tactics
that they used in Nazi Germany to crush the opposition. It's no different. And Mr. Izikoff,
quite frankly, should be ashamed of himself. He's not an investigative reporter because clearly he
didn't investigate his own quote unquote facts that he's promoting. But this is all the deep
state globalist military industrial complex narrative that Mr. Izikoff bought. And it's
quite shameful. And he should have his journalism card revoked. I mean, he likes to talk about
info wars and other organizations that are not mainstream, not being credible journalism. But
Mr. Izikoff, you're not credible. You based your information on a dirty dossier. And because of that,
illegal sublime and seditious activity occurred in the United States under your guise.
And it's kind of interesting. I was on with Sean Hannity last night, and we talked about this.
This entire new focus on WikiLeaks, the entire focus on rushing collusion,
try to reinflate what is an uninflated narrative, is really an attempt to distract from the stunning
fact that the Obama Department of Justice and the Obama FBI utilized a dossier created by a foreign
agent, in this case Christopher Steele, working with Russians as the legal rationale for the widespread
state surveillance of Donald Trump and his campaign. Try to get your head around that for
just a moment. This is an egregious abuse of power, use of the surveillance authority of the state
to spy on one of the two major candidates for president. As I told Sean Hannity last night
on air, it makes Watergate look like small potatoes. And now the Democrats and their
handmaidens in the mainstream media will do anything to distract attention from the fact
that they are busted. I'm Roger Stone. Thanks to Jacob Engels with Essential Florida Post.
You're on the Alex Jones show. We'll be right back.
Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and
protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria,
much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100%
efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that aging
is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139. Over a year in the making produced by one of the
top organic firms in the country that if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to
speak for hours just on the files I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year. But
immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39. Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more.
It is concentrated. You need to go read what is in here. The mushroom blend of the most
expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly accelerate. A citrus peel blend,
I mean, this is the next level. It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall.
I think it's beyond seasonal. Beta-glucan, olive leaf, and more.
Immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple 8-253-3139.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars Life. Our organic formula is made from
high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract,
and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper
sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid
speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of
10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and
take on the day. Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and
beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Absolutely needs. In the history of Info Wars Life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like
Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum
standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in
vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means
it's clean. That means it's pure and rest secured. You're finding the tip of the spear in the Info
Wars. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host Roger Stone.
Welcome back. You're on Freedom Command Central. That's right. It's the Alex Jones show here on
Info Wars. We are the news outlet that the tech left fears. We are the news organization that
makes the globalists tremble. That's why they seek to censor us. Extraordinarily good news out of
the Justice Department. The Justice Department has filed a lawsuit on behalf of a woman who claims
that she was denied her right not to have a mandatory vaccination. Now we here at InfoWars
have questioned the safety of vaccinations or more precisely questioned the safety of what's
in vaccinations and incredibly this lawsuit by the Trump Justice Department has the potential
to break this issue wide open. The state of California is ground zero in the mandatory
vaccination movement. This is where they will not let you send your children to a public school
unless they've had the state prescribed vaccinations. That is very, very scary. So kudos to the
Trump Justice Department. The congressman from California Adam Schiff has actually sponsored
a House resolution that declares vaccinations to be safe and denies that the United States
government has ever paid out a penny to the lawsuit process to people who have been injured
by supposedly safe vaccinations. In fact, the US government, we, the taxpayers, have paid out
in excess of 3.5 billion dollars to individuals who were damaged by vaccinations. This is akin
to sponsoring a resolution that says the Holocaust didn't happen or World War two
didn't happen. It is a disgrace, but it's pandering for big pharma campaign dollars.
Kudos for the Trump Trump Justice Department for filing this landmark suit.
Now, I, as I said, appeared on MSNBC's Meet the Press yesterday and then later in the day
with the great Sean Hannity. All of these were in the wake of the tragic meltdown of my former
colleague in the Trump campaign, Sam Nunberg. Sam Nunberg is a brilliant researcher writer who very
clearly is dealing with his demons. I made it clear on Meet the Press and with Sean Hannity
that Mr. Nunberg is a man who marches to his own drummer and he is a man who is not speaking on my
behalf or at my behest or based on my advice. In the wake of all of this, because Nunberg indicated
that he was not of a mind to cooperate with a subpoena for document production that would
theoretically include email traffic between he and I along with Corey Lewandowski, Hope Hicks,
Steve Bannon, Steve Miller, Donald Trump and dozens of others. I was treated to a recycle
by the mainstream media of the patented lie that I knew about the WikiLeaks disclosures,
specifically the quote-unquote Russian hack of the DNC, that I received this information from
WikiLeaks and that I shared it with the Trump campaign and Donald Trump. Let's be very clear
yet again, I had no advance notice of the content source or exact timing of the WikiLeaks disclosures
that so thoroughly wrenched the Hillary campaign. I received nothing whatsoever from
info from WikiLeaks or from Julian Assange and you cannot pass on what you never had.
I did have a confirming source who told me that when Assange said publicly that he had a catch
of material on Hillary Clinton and that he would publish it, it was true. Now going even further,
the Washington Post in a piece by Jennifer Rubin took a line from the Democrats memo authored by
Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell and Congressman Himes from my home state of Connecticut and others,
saying that the Russians gave hacked material to Trump insiders for review. Jennifer Rubin
of the Washington Post said that was Roger Stone, the piece that can still be found online.
When I raised this yesterday on the MSNBC Meet the Press discussion, Michelle Goldberg of the
New York Times said that this piece didn't exist and that the Washington Post had never said this.
Please, Michelle, get your fake news straight. The upshot of all of this, well it's not pleasant.
The Washington Post, Salon, and Vice, all speculating that I will be indicted by special
counsel Mueller specifically for the crime of getting information from info from WikiLeaks
and passing it to Donald Trump and the Trump campaign. So one more time, I received no such
information and the truth is I never discussed in any way, shape, or form the WikiLeaks disclosures
regarding Hillary Clinton with candidate or President Donald Trump. There is no case here.
Julian Assange himself has said accurately that I was able to predict what WikiLeaks would do
by very carefully following his interviews and his tweets and repeating what I had learned.
There's no secret here. What you do have is the wishful thinking of talking heads like Ari Melbour
who don't know what they are talking about. It is mean-spirited and the epitome of fake news.
There is no evidence whatsoever that I knew about and passed on anything from WikiLeaks
or the Russians. The entire thing is bullshiff, made up, false, meant to damage and distract.
What do they want to distract from? Well, my friend Sean Hannity said it best.
What we have here is the greatest single scandal of political espionage in American history
where they use the FBI in the Justice Department, use what they knew was fabricated evidence
to justify the surveillance of Donald Trump and his campaign for president after he was
the Republican nominee. That's why we want a full, full-throated discussion of WikiLeaks
to distract from a crime for which people must go to jail. Coming up on the war room,
we're going to be taking some of your questions. The phone number for that is 1-888-201-2244.
If you have questions about internet censorship, questions about what transpired with WikiLeaks
and these devastating DNC revelations, questions about vaccinations, questions about the Veterans
Administration bizarre and inhumane experiments on dogs, or anything else you want to talk about,
join us on the other side on the war room. That number again, 1-888-201-2244.
This is your opportunity to ask questions about everything that's in the information war today.
And lastly, folks, help us in this struggle against the internet censors. Help us beat back
YouTube and Google and others who would strangle the First Amendment, who want to silence info wars
because we bring you the unvarnished truth because we stand up against the globalists and their
godless, atheistic, pedophile armies. We are the tip of the spear and we need your help.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was
developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Info wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating
proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support your body and mind and take
yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize your life. Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
And there's no way to quantify how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and
gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether
it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest,
most concentrated bone broth formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today
at infowarsstore.com. What you can do for your family. And again, I want to thank you all for
your support. You are funding the information war in 2018. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
