We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center in the heart of the resistance
is Alex Jones.
Well, I'm getting hundreds of phone calls and thousands of emails of support from listeners
after the false charges attacks kind of following the whole Me Too movement have finally been
leveled against us because they finally found some folks that would bear false witness.
And I feel really good. I feel honored to be in this position to be attacked by Hillary Clinton
by her lawyer. That's that's who's filed this suit. And I know the truth is going to come out
because we just so happened to have documented because we figured this was going on in the closing days
before these individuals left. So they have certainly stepped in a bear trap.
But first let's go to this critical report and we'll be back with has Trump betrayed the Second Amendment.
There have been shootings where clearly people do it by themselves.
There's also shootings where I can play a CNN clips where well more cops got shot.
They need to do more to stop police violence. That's why they're getting killed.
You know, they deserve it. When Congressmen's police got shot.
Well, Blitzer had a guest ongoing. Well, the guy was a hero that did it.
You know, he wasn't a bad guy. And Blitzer's like, OK, I agree.
I just want to let people know that he wasn't evil.
That he was, I guess, tired of some of the politics are going on.
That's what we just heard. Perhaps he wasn't evil, just tired of the politics.
Well, the day of the event, we start seeing local stations and Texas stations that were there to cover major league baseball,
interviewing students going, there's multiple shooters and crews was with me.
He wasn't shooting and then I get a guest on. They say it.
He knows other people to get in contact with and say it.
Imagine then you don't cover it because you don't want to be called a conspiracy theorist.
That just means going and talking to the locals and seeing what really happened instead of whatever the
national news in D.C. or New York or L.A. says. And that's what's crazy.
But see, they can't say, oh, Jones is bad.
He interviewed students that said there were multiple shooters and showed local newscasts saying the same thing.
And the sheriff stood down. No, no, no, no, no, you can't go up against that.
So you go, Alex Jones is to be banned on YouTube Google. Thank God.
Washington Times said, thank God. Glenn Beck says, thank God.
I was going to go to Glenn Beck, washed up half his audience, Democrat, operative, Judas go.
He goes and falls on his sword on mainstream media.
That's what he does. He goes and falls on his sword.
He gets pushed by Twitter, Facebook, everybody force fed.
Lab is with corporate sponsorship.
He goes on, falls on his sword.
This is a fraud.
And then he misrepresents what I said about 9 11 about everything because I said there was a stand down Saudi Arabia.
All that's come out in the 28 pages.
But he misrepresents that and then he misrepresents the rest. Here it is.
We're frequently accused of spreading conspiracy theories about Obama and about liberals,
which is why I want to know what you make of the conspiracy theories this week.
These attacks against the students in Florida.
Why do people embrace this kind of conspiracy theory thinking?
Okay, so let's talk about conspiracy theories because again, this is a left and right kind of thing.
Look at the concentration.
Excuse me, Scripps Howard did a poll in 2006 and they asked the question,
how likely is it that people in the federal government either assisted in the 9 11 attacks
or took no action because they wanted war in the Middle East?
22% said very likely. 22% of Democrats said very likely.
28% said somewhat likely.
So that's more than half of Democrats thought that Bush was involved in the 9 11 conspiracy.
So conspiracy, and by the way, the person who was behind that conspiracy
is the same guy behind a lot of these conspiracies, Alex Jones.
And then they can't actually say, we need to shut it down.
They played local newscast saying multiple shooters and the police stood down
and they're also saying CNN had fake town halls.
That's confirmed and the crowd goes burn her, burn her of handpicked people.
They're saying kill the NRA, burn people, murder them, shoot them, they're murderers.
And all we're doing is going, gee, they all admit they're in an ad thing
and they're all in PR and they admit that in Buzzfeed.
It's like, shut up, you said that no one died.
See, it's like I say, you know, I want to live like Venezuela.
Shut up, you're a Nazi, you want to live under Hitler.
I'm like, no, I said I want to live under communism.
So see, they always play these games and only because we're not paying attention
do they keep having success but they're starting to lose.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process
and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods
into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by
fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion
and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste, use Carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're live. We're broadcasting worldwide.
And I've got a lot of news to cover today.
We've got the mainstream media launching their big fake news story
trying to take me down with absolute fake headlines about Alex Jones
accused of sexual assault.
And Alex Jones accused of grooming male and female employees for sex.
And Alex Jones accused of his office having Nazi tennis shoes.
I mean, and it's Hillary Rodham Clinton's former lawyer that's filed all this.
And I feel really good about this.
I feel bad for the people that got induced to say these things.
And I feel bad for some of the crew that got put into the whole timeline
to make it sound more plausible as I guess kind of extras in the whole fiction production.
But I actually feel really good about this because they went over the top.
They've been off way more than they can chew.
And we've got amazing documentation.
But I'm going to leave a lot of that for court.
But coming up towards the bottom of the hour,
I'm going to make a statement on this and go through some of the facts.
Before we go any further, people are going crazy.
Is Trump getting ready to gut the second amendment?
And he's made some statements that I don't like.
And I've been saying this for about a week,
and the statements are getting worse and worse and worse.
But we've seen this tactic before from the president.
It's sound reasonable knowing the Democrats will put forward a bill
calling for total gun ban, just like they did with the whole Dream Act.
And so I think that's what Trump's doing.
That's why they hate him.
That's why they want to remove him.
They're trying to destroy anybody that's connected to him.
But I thought, since I mentioned this report yesterday,
that I would go to this now, at least part of it.
It's been edited together by some great folks called Galactic Service on YouTube,
taking an interview I did with Joe Rogan a year ago and putting it together.
And now everything that I talked about in there is what Elon Musk is talking about.
It's in the New York Times today.
The sublime and the scary future of cameras with AI brains, cameras hooked to AI.
They're already all hooked into the Google and the rest of it.
That is AI.
So this is what the globalists believe.
They believe that they're doing this whole off-world situation and all this craziness.
And just a year ago, it sounded crazy.
Now it's mainstream news.
I thought I'd play an excerpt of this.
Here it is from the Joe Rogan experience.
I want to tell you guys the big enchiladas.
Okay, that's it.
Please, the big enchilada.
Do I have to wear these headphones?
What do you know about aliens?
Are aliens real?
This is really big.
So.
Okay.
The question is, what does Donald Trump know about aliens?
Oh, yeah.
What does he know now?
Right?
Because he's in the office.
I don't know.
That would be the first thing I did.
I would run to the office and I'd go, who's got the alien doc?
The documents.
Who's got them?
All right.
Let me give you my best, please.
Deep research approximation.
Are you ready?
Yes.
I'm going to give you the big enchilada.
Joe, there is aliens in this room right now.
For real?
Yeah.
You're not of this world, bro.
Me?
You're the alien.
Oh, wow.
I didn't know.
Well, here's what the elite believe.
This is the world's greatest science and technology.
I don't know, but I think we need to get into that.
Oh, thank you.
And people can't even handle that.
There's armies.
We're fighting a pedophile conspiracy, but beyond that, it's a vampire conspiracy
in that they are interdimensionally sucking the essence of our youth.
Right.
And they believe they're possessed by an off-world entity.
They do?
Yeah.
And then Joe, I've been on there 22 years.
I don't get into aliens, metaphysical, religion, any of that.
I've studied the elite, and I've also communicated with a lot of the top people.
people. And if you want to know, I will actually break down right now the best knowledge right
now what's happening on the planet. What's happening? The elite are all about transcendence
and living forever and the secrets of the universe and they want to know all this. Some
are good, some are bad, some are a mix. But the good ones don't ever want to organize.
The bad ones didn't want to organize because they lost after power. Powerful consciousnesses
don't want to dominate other people. They want to empower them so they don't tend to
get together until things are really late in the game. Then they come together, evil's
always defeated because good is so much stronger. And we're on this planet, and Einstein's
physics showed it, Max Planck's physics showed it all. There's at least 12 dimensions. And
now that's why all the top scientists and billionaires are coming out saying it's a
false hologram. It is artificial. The computers are scanning it and finding tension points
where it's artificially projected and gravity's bleeding in to this universe. That's what
they call dark matter. So we're like a thought or a dream that's a
wisp in some computer program, some God's mind, whatever. They're proving it all. It's
all coming out. Now, there's like this sub-transmission zone below the third dimension that's just
turned over to the most horrible things. This is what it resonates to. And it's trying to
get up into the third dimension that's just a basic level consciousness to launch into
the next levels. And our species is already way up in the fifth, sixth dimension, consciously,
our best people. But there's this big war trying to like basically destroy humanity
because humanity has free will and there's a decision to which level we want to go to.
We have free will, so evil's allowed to come and contend and not just good. And the elites
themselves believe they're racing or using human technology to try to take our best minds
and build some type of breakaway civilization where they're going to merge with machines,
transcend and break away from the failed species of this man, which is kind of like a false
transmission because they're thinking what they are is ugly and bad, projecting it onto
themselves instead of believing, no, it's a human test about building us up. And so
Google was set up 18, 19 years ago, and this was, I knew about this before it was declassified.
I'm just saying I have good sources, that they wanted to build a giant artificial system.
And Google believes that the first artificial intelligence will be a supercomputer based
on the neuron activities of the hive mind of humanity with billions of people wired
into it with the internet and so all of our thoughts go into it and we're actually building
a computer that has real neurons in real time that's also psychically connected to
us that are organic creatures so that they will have current prediction powers, future
prediction powers, a true crystal ball, but the big secret is once you have a crystal
ball and know the future, you can add stimuli beforehand and make decisions that control
the future. And so then it's the end of consciousness and free will for individuals as we know and
a true 2.0 in a very bad way hive mind consciousness with an AI jacked into everyone knowing our
hopes and dreams, delivering it to us not in some PKD wirehead system where we plug
in and give up on consciousness because of unlimited pleasure, but because we were already
wired in and absorbed before we knew it by giving over our consciousness to the system
by our daily decisions that it was able to manipulate and control into a larger system.
There's now a human counter strike taking place to shut this off before it gets fully
into place and to block these systems and to try to have an actual debate about where
humanity goes and cut off the pedophiles and psychic vampires that are control of this
AI system before humanity is destroyed.
But how did the pedophiles get in control of AI?
Well, the pedophiles at whatever level, the devil, whatever you would call it, this interdimensional
thing that gives them advanced off-world technology, the fallen one that's not in this world, is
giving them advanced knowledge on how to construct these systems that have already been used
before on other populations.
What?
Is that Satan?
What are you talking about?
That's Satan.
You're saying something insane.
You're saying something that the stupid preacher tells you about who's totally controlled
or something you read about in the news or TV.
This is an interdimensional force that wants to influence us to build something that absorbs
us and kills us rather than the divine free will we're given to build something much better
than empowers the species.
So the species is now making a decision about its entire future.
Where are you getting this from?
That's what it is.
But where are you getting it from?
From looking at all the data, researching it, studying it, watching the enemy.
That's the big decision that humanity has now got before us.
You get some place finally in deep research where it's what every culture already said,
what everybody already knew, what they're telling you in movies like Prometheus, what
the elite admit the New York Times they believe in.
Everything they're doing points towards this and then you read their own writings.
They believe we're this ugly fallen, ugly species, we're only to be killed.
We're the rich billionaires who are better than us and they're going to merge with machines
and become gods and go to the next level.
Here's what I'm telling you.
The elite literally believe interdimensionally they were given this information and then
built it.
And here's the thing.
They built it and Google admits, even at data dumpster wired two years ago, that they're
building an AI that will end human consciousness free will and take over and the next species
will rise out of that.
They built it.
It's a centralized system of what they're building that isn't naturally occurring.
Who is that?
I mean, if you actually read what all the globalists say, they are getting on the floor.
Let's stop right there.
There's about four minutes left in the clip.
It's online.
Alex Jones talks about intergalactic interdimensional war and it breaks it all down.
This is why they hate us.
It's why they want to shut us down.
This is why they want to end the broadcast is I'm bringing everybody together.
That's why they're calling me a racist and a rapist and everything else is because they're
raping your mind ever since ID stronghold created RFID blocking wallet technology over
10 years ago.
Major designer brands have tried to create their own versions, but do they really work?
We let real people test designer brand RFID blocking wallets using the same rigorous testing
ID stronghold wallets go through.
So how did the designer brands do?
I expected notable brands to perform well and I was pretty surprised to see that it
was not fully protected.
Just by those big brand names that I like and trust don't really do what they're advertising
that they do.
Get a stronghold on your credit cards license and other critical data with ID stronghold
wallets.
Other RFID blocking wallets simply aren't the same.
ID stronghold just outperformed them in every aspect.
I would definitely recommend ID stronghold wallets to my friends and family.
Check the label.
If it doesn't say it's an ID stronghold, it's not.
I'm very impressed with the ID stronghold wallet.
Get the most trusted brand in RFID blocking wallets and protect yourself from electronic
pickpocketing.
ID stronghold.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
Any guidelines, discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy, go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
To goberkey.com, we're call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press, all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Let's talk to Victor in Florida.
Victor, you're calling?
Go ahead.
Yes.
Hi, Alex.
First, I just want to mention, if people just go and try the products, they will be ordering
all the time.
I've ordered several of the products over and over because it's amazing.
In particular, Silver Bullet, as soon as I start to feel like I get a little sick, maybe
like a little raspiness in my throat, I drop some Silver Bullet, and I'll still feel a
little sick, but it won't last as long.
I just ordered the body, the alpha power, and the pollen block.
Well, let me just say something, Victor.
It's people like you that then fund the whole operation because a very small percentage
of people buy products, and a very small percentage of them buy a lot of the products.
Thank you.
But when you mention the Silver Bullet, Colloidal Silver, it's got thousands of reviews, a 98%
review.
It is our highest-reviewed product because it is from the top lab in the country discounted
high-quality Colloidal Silver, and it's not a Silver Bullet, but it's the closest thing
you're going to find to a Silver Bullet.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic.
Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the Infowars.com studios.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, all hell is breaking loose.
President Trump has come out making pro-gun control statements, and I know what he's doing.
He's attempting to neutralize all the hysteria and all the opposition so that he can, quote,
propose something reasonable.
They'll propose something that's draconian, and then nothing gets done, just like he
did with the whole DREAM Act.
He proposed something that was pretty reasonable.
Okay, 1.8 million people have been here for decades, not criminals.
Okay, fast-track to citizenship.
Everybody else, you're out.
He's done everything he said he would do there.
But now we learn Trump stuns lawmakers with seeming embrace of comprehensive gun control.
And a lot of people are saying they're done with Trump.
His base is really upset.
They're really upset the NRA for agreeing to bump stocks.
Then it's, oh, up to 21, not able to buy a rifle.
And then every time there's going to be another shooting, it's always going to happen out
of 330 million people.
Mass shootings are very, very rare, but the media magnifies them.
There's still tragedies.
You get put in a position of losing your second amendment.
Let's call Larry Pratt, let's get him on today, of Gunners of America, because the NRA the
last five, six years has been no compromise, and that's been great.
But now they're really starting to slide because a Republican is in office.
CNN calls it surreal.
Trump meeting on guns, let Republicans reeling, Democrats optimistic.
And there's this video that we've got of the Democratic senators, like Feinstein smiling.
When Trump says this, we're going to play that in a moment, Feinstein can't even get
the nomination in California.
She can't even get the groups to endorse her to run.
She's so unpopular.
And there's Trump being buddy buddy with her.
I believe this was a tactic.
I've seen Trump do it before, but regardless, he can see where the momentum's going up.
There's more of these shootings, and they believe he'll end up losing the election and
we'll lose 2018.
That is not the case.
It will cause Republicans to desert the party and will cause the Democrats to have a huge
landslide.
Have they gotten to the president?
Let me tell you something.
They genuinely hate him.
They hate everybody that ever supported him, and he's gotten 60 plus percent of his agenda
through, I agree with the Heritage Foundation, in just 14 months, killing TPP, renegotiating
NAFTA and GATT, massively controlling the borders, crushing political correctness, trillions
of the stock market, hundreds of billions of new jobs, millions of new jobs.
I mean, I'm not going to list the whole raft again, but Trump about 100-something days
in kind of suddenly veered left for about two months, then veered back to the nationalist.
And so, Trump's smart.
And so, I'm going to give the benefit of the doubt and thank God it's not Hillary, but
we've got to run good people for Congress, run good people for the state houses.
We've got to just keep moving forward like Trump's going to turn against us.
And we've got to start making preparations for that, obviously.
This is a really, really sad situation.
Let's go ahead and play Dianne Feinstein, the complete political dead duck, and by that
of lame duck, you know, it's going to be out of office soon, I call a politician that
everybody can't stand in their own party, and it's hated by the other party, and hated
by the people, and who's old and out of touch and bumbling around a dead duck politically.
That's my term I'm coining.
And or a dead, dead turkey, maybe that's a good term.
You know, an old, old rotten turkey, man, that's about her term, she's a politically
rotten turkey.
It's a good term, turkeys, you know, something that fails, something that isn't good, rotten
turkey is really bad.
So Dianne Feinstein is a rotten turkey, here she is smiling like a, you know what, eating
a rat next to Trump.
So if you could add that to this bill, that would be great, Dianne, if you could add what
you have also, and I think you can, into the bill, can you do that, Joe, can you do that,
Pat, can you add some of the things you're not going to agree with?
Yeah, you help.
Well, no, I'll help, but can you add what Amy and what Dianne have, can we add them in?
And I know you can add what John has.
We have another domestic violence bill that's very narrow, and it's about dating partners,
and a number of states have just enacted it with Republicans.
We're going to get it passed.
Yeah.
We're going to get it passed.
If you can add domestic violence, paragraphs, pages into this bill, I'm all for it.
And look at the little corrupt Democrats that lust after disarming the American people,
having just criminal looks in their eyes, Feinstein could be the Wicked Witch of the East in the
famous Yellowbrick Road, Wizard of Oz, in fact, Tim McBreen, or whoever's hearing graphics,
can we grab this and put her head on the witch ride in the bicycle, or I'll get you, my pretty.
If you're not a radio listener, can we blow this up for TV viewers, can we blow the footage
up there to the, yes, blow that up, and just loop that, just visually, but also with the
cackling, she looks like a demon witch, the archetypal, oh, yes, oh, finally, oh, oh,
yeah, go ahead and roll the audio again, please.
Can you do that, Joe, can you do that, Pat, can you add some of the shows, and I think
you can, into the film.
Actually rubbing their hands together, look, oh, never seen the footage when Hitler and
Hermann Göring had taken over Czechoslovakia, and then France capitulates, and Hitler's
in Germany, it's newsreel, he's about to travel by train the next day to Paris, and
him and Hermann Göring, the head of the Luftwaffe, big old fat Hermann Göring, are rubbing their
hands together greedily, I mean, this is unbelievable, Operation Toto will defeat them, that's what
Info Wars is, but this image right here, this may sink Trump, because the left will never
vote for him, even if he became Mao Zedong, because they're sub-rainwashed, and so I don't
know what planet Trump's on, I don't know if it has to do with the Carter Page thing,
because our CIA sources told us last week on air, they were really worried about sex
ops bringing down the president or compromising him, and they said, that's all we're going
to say, that was Pachining, and of course his sources are in the Pentagon, the CIA at
the highest levels, and they said, man, people may get freaked out real soon, it looks like
they may have all the Stormy Daniels business, and all this other stuff, you know, women
got King David in trouble, he got himself in trouble, but this is amazing, but you
know, even if you keep your nose clean, doesn't matter, because what's happened to us has
come along, and I'm just glad the case that they cooked up is so fraudulent, so ridiculous,
so over the top, Newsweek says, Jones is being investigated for sexual assault, that's right,
sexual assault and racial discrimination, she claims, she hugged me once and I touched
her side, not even true, not even true, and that then turns into sexual assault, and they
claim we wear Nazi shoes with swastikas on them, I'm not kidding, totally false, and
then that we have open carry guns everywhere, no, sometimes we'll show a rifle on air, but
we don't, you don't do open carry with handguns in Texas, that's illegal, we have concealed
carry here, there's no, and Ashley asked for a concealed carry class, we have somebody
here that works here, went and gave her a class, we have video of that, so what I'm
saying is every piece, every piece of what they say we have the opposite, except for
the one little frame up part, but then we were able to catch who was behind that as
well, I mean this is amazing what they've stepped into.
Hear that, that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked
the place, and what they don't steal will be destroyed, this year, resolve not to be
the next victim of a break in, go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion
someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away, security is a mindset, and fake
TV should be part of your security solution, be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
This is Dan Pillard, you owe the IRS money you can't pay, our tax debt's crippling you,
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years, I've helped thousands and I can
help you too, I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case, call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt, with the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem, call 800-34-NO-TAX,
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpillard.com.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infoorestore.com, number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship, because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50, listeners have been
requesting this for years, because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that
you need each month.
Just go to infoorestore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with a new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win, 10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping
on orders above $50, and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients, such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Electrify your day with Secret 12.
It's like lightning in a bottle.
We all have days in which we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to.
InfoWarslife Secret 12 is designed to naturally energize your body and mind with two great
tasting and super high quality forms of vitamin B12.
Proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to keep your body functioning at optimum levels.
The reality is, it's hard to take in the proper amount of vitamins we need each day with our
modern diets.
Secret 12 by InfoWarslife is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin B12 intake
and support your body's natural systems.
It pairs two forms of vitamin B12 into one explosive formula.
Vitamin B12 supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell formation and aiding
in the body's natural processes.
But it also assists with many other functions of the body.
Electrify your mind and body and take your health to the next level.
Experience the power of Secret 12 at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big Brother.
Mainstream media.
Government coverups.
You want answers?
Well, so does he.
Live from Austin, Texas.
Broadcasting worldwide.
It's Alex Jones.
We're now 34 minutes in, or 33 minutes in, to the 34 hour live broadcast that we announced
we were going to start doing last week today, on March 1st, 2018.
And it's called Operation Paul Revere 2018 to defend our free speech, to defend the
Internet, and to defend the Second Amendment.
And boy, is that not more true now today than ever.
Who would have known that this would be the first broadcast day where I'd have a chance
to respond to thousands of articles, and it's on national television everywhere, headline
Alex Jones accused of sexual assault.
Alex Jones accused of gay grooming.
Alex Jones accused of threatening people with firearms.
Alex Jones, employees wearing Nazi shoes with swastikas.
The most insane media behavior we've ever seen.
And then I've got the EEOC twin complaint.
They don't tell you the individuals were in a relationship together.
And then there's a little thing called evidence, there's none of that.
And we can sit there and debunk the entire thing.
But our listeners, our supporters don't buy any of it because they know the climate we're
in, they see where we are, and it's just like the prairie home companion guy where the woman
hugged him and his hands supposedly touched her back.
That's what they're calling sex assault.
But the difference is I never even, she was always trying to hug me and I was never letting
her do it.
You can ask any employees around here.
I'm not stupid.
And that's why we are getting all the affidavits and we already have the write-ups in the
video and the audio and we already have everything and we're not stupid.
We're not stupid.
And so I actually thank God.
I'm sad for the crew.
They got falsely accused of stuff just to add to the script that they created.
But, and I mean, you can see how this was written as a script because the media builds
on a script.
I do some ads with my shirt off, the media makes a big deal about it, I go on the young
turks with my shirt off as a joke, and then it turns into Joneses around the office talking
everyone with his shirt off, even though it might be twice a year that I'm running from
a bathroom back to my office to get a shirt or something, and I'm pulling my shirt on
for the show if I'm late.
But then that's it, like he patted it on the back and once his shirt was off and they
had firearms and she was scared of them and they were all over the place.
Meanwhile, I want to go take a concealed carry course, please, here, Ashley, we'll videotape
you at your concealed carry wearing info or shirts, so let's put that on screen.
We've got all the audio, we've got all the video, we've got everything debunked.
It's just then, look at that big smile there in the horrible office with the guns and the
guns are all in instant access.
This will save people who have concealed carries, and we're in Texas.
We're not in North Korea, but I'm going to get to that next segment.
Let me just do this, this segment.
Look at these headlines, Marie Le Pen, she's set to win the French election in polls, criminally
charged for anti-ISIS tweets.
She spoke out against ISIS, that's illegal under French law, seriously, and she's been
criminally charged.
That's at NewsWars.com, that ought to shut her up.
China just banned the letter in from the internet because it was being used in a new combination,
Zizadong, combining the current dictator with the last dictator, who made himself a dictator
of the Communist Party, he's already a dictator of the party, which is a dictatorship.
So that's been banned.
This is an example of where we are.
And then Trump to take the guns first, go through new process, second, boy, what a horrible
quote.
That's because they didn't go after all the warning signs or follow the law to stop the
supposed shooter, Nick Cruz.
And so Trump's just kind of brainstorming for hours, and the media is taking that and
making it sound like he's going to go for all this.
You notice he said, though, you can introduce whatever you want, Diane Feinstein, into the
Republican bill and we'll see.
You may not get what you want.
The point is, it'll scotch the whole deal.
And Trump will look like he was reasonable when he knows it's unreasonable that they
just want to incrementally get the guns.
And these idiots just want to score political points and don't know he's playing them like
a fiddle.
Now, that's what my gut tells me he's doing.
That's what I've seen him do at least five other cases the last 14 months.
But let me tell you, I don't think you can play games even rhetorically with the Second
Amendment like this.
So I think this is a big miscalculation by the president and I don't like it.
But we are now 38 minutes into Operation Paul Revere 2018.
And I've never gone on air and gone this far.
But I'll tell you right now, I'm proud of the fact we're under attack because I know
these are bad people.
Hillary Clinton can't believe she lost the election and it's one of her former chief
lawyers that is running this whole lawsuit operation.
And he even says in the Daily Mail, he makes political comments about how I'm a bad person
that lies to my audience and how I do these bad things and this just adds to how bad
I am.
And then the media never even called to get a quote from me because they're not media,
they're fake news, but you will hear the truth.
You will know the truth.
It's unbelievable.
And it's, of course, the law firm is the one for Michael Jackson and all of it that's been
hooked into all that Hollywood stuff.
It's pretty amazing.
Speaking of Hollywood, after hashtag Me Too Pepper Spray to giveaways in the Oscar Goody
bags, meanwhile, street artists erects three billboards over Hollywood, Oscars for biggest
pedophile goes to, and we should show some of those, show some of those.
So they're using the Me Too as a distraction from the whole pedophile scandal that we
told you was going to break about a year ago and has now broke.
So here's what's happening.
If you support us in this critical fight, we will win, we will take the contrary back
and we'll take the world back because they know they can try to kill the president or
impeach him or shut him down, but they know if there's talk radio, they know if there's
drugs report, they know if there's info wars, they know that we're the hardcore folks that
hit the barbed wire.
You hit the barbed wire, we bring up the hard topics, we take the heat, we make it safe
for others to say.
We change the discussion on the real issues and they've decided that we were critical
in losing Hillary the election.
And they have said, info wars is the key.
They've decided to destroy us and they've said if we can bring them down, we'll bring
everybody down, just like they all the headlines saying ban Jones off the internet entirely.
Don't just ban him off YouTube, kick him off, talk radio, arrest him, he's a liar.
He doesn't have his free speech.
Then they lie about what I've said, even if it was true, I have my free speech.
You have to adjudicate that in a court, you know, for defamation, not just say I'm banned.
So you can pull up the headlines, info wars is, you know, one step away from banning,
being banned on YouTube.
And so we said this the last few days, we said they're getting ready for something big
against info wars because they're trying to silence us and trying to demonize us.
Instead of being a demonization campaign every month and then every week, it's every day.
And now it's every few hours.
And really, I really am honored to be at this level of demonization attack.
It shows how effective we are.
I think about the soldiers that have fought and died to create this country and then to
keep this country.
I think about the wives and family that lost those men and women and I think about all
my ancestors, a lot of them were hardworking, you know, really good people, always known
as being honorable, straight and strong, both sides of my family were known for that genetically
and culturally.
But when it comes to fighting tyrants and dying and but changing history, we're all over
it from 1776 to 1836, right through World War One, World War Two, Vietnam, the Cold War,
my family's been there, will sometimes misguided, but fighting for the Republic, fighting for
Western culture, fighting for the Renaissance, and I am very honored.
I feel for my family and crew around us, I've warned them about this, that they could be
targeted as well to try to bring the place down.
If they can't get me to buckle, they're going to come after you.
But you're strong, you understand that.
So I trust in God, I trust in our audience, and I trust in Providence to carry us through.
I am extremely honored to be in this position and I commit to you that I will be as strong
as I can and stay the course full speed ahead.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much
more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Buy bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Over a year in the making produced by one of the top organic herbs in the country that
if you want proven studies and documentation, I'm going to speak for hours just on the files
I have here, of what this is proven to do, the ingredients in this.
This is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year, any time of the year, but
the immune wall is incredible and folks, other formulas that aren't even as good are $70-80.
It's a great deal at $39.
Immune wall, beta-glucans, olive leaf, and so much more, it is concentrated, you need
to go read what is in here.
The mushroom blend of the most expensive, highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate.
A citrus peel blend, I mean this is the next level.
It's now available, ladies and gentlemen, immune wall, I think it's beyond seasonal.
Quick-glucan, olive leaf, and more, immune wall, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com or
triple-8-253-3139.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslive.com or triple-8-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and
they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Introducing Fluorolife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by Infowarslife.
For years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
Fluorolife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to Infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics today.
That's Infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You want answers?
Well, so does he.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Well, we knew something Meg was coming, and it's part of the anti-free speech globalist
attack on anyone promoting a constitutional republic, anyone promoting a free society.
We are now 47 minutes into the 34 hour emergency broadcast with my show, David Knight, Owen
Schreuer and others.
We're going to be broadcasting right through live until 6 o'clock tomorrow night on Friday.
This is the official launch day, 24 hours a day on Galaxy 16.
We're also on one other big satellite and we're going to be on another one we'll announce
in the next week.
But today was the day we officially went 24 hours a day on it.
We had this planned for a couple months and notice this is the day they rolled out with
Alex Jones, accused of sexual assault, wearing Nazi shoes and a bunch of other just completely
insane stuff.
And you actually read the EEOC report, it says a woman hugged me and I pat it her side.
And then that's sexual assault and then that didn't even happen.
But see, Newsweek and stuff take the EEOC report and then they don't actually quote
it, they just make stuff up.
It's incredible.
I'm going to talk about that some and I've got some guests coming up.
But there's all this other news and here I am again.
I never plug hardly in the first hour hardly ever talk about it.
That's what the 34 hour broadcast is about is to deal with all the other lawsuits.
And here's the good news, the Democrat affiliated groups have filed eight lawsuits on me.
Well, this will be nine in the last 14 months since Trump won the lawsuit started the week
after he won.
So I guess it's about 16, 17 months ago and they're so frivolous they get thrown out they're
trying to break us.
They think we're going to give up.
We just lawyer it up and negotiated good deals with the lawyers and you know how many have
got it covered as long as you financially support us.
But I won't have money to fight all this and launch these satellites that have affiliate
relations with cable and TV stations that are picking us up like wildfire because their
attempts to shut us down has really woken up station owners and managers and program
directors.
We're just exploding on television.
We are not listing affiliates at this time because the affiliates appreciate that because
then they get targeted and you know some but what are asked but that's way outweighed
all the positive support they get.
So we're offering the biggest savings ever and infowarstore.com to make it easy to support
the broadcast.
We also have a donate button we put on the front page of infowarstore.com.
We're also going to have a pop up that pops up.
We don't usually have those on the side, we're going to have a pop up next few days.
Just make a straight up donation because when we sell stuff at 50% off, it's really 50%
off.
We sell it for 80% off, it's a lost leader even though a lot of these things have sold
out.
I mean I told you bodies ultimate turmeric formula and 50% off is going to sell out.
It sold out, we're not getting more for two months.
I'm kind of not good at that sometimes you know because I should have it go back to regular
price and then kind of have it run out by the time the new stuff gets in but I want
you to see how great it is.
So a bunch of those specials ended because they sold out.
We've got Operation Paul Revere 2018 special, 30 to 80% off site wide plus free shipping
I should have added that yesterday plus the free shipping.
Supermail Vitality, 50% off, Real Red Pill 50% off, Biome Defense 50% off, that's an
amazing probiotic.
True Way 50% off, probiotic fiber right out of the gates, best source fiber, amazing
50% off, Info Wars Life Select products 40% off, Clarence Apparel 80% off, Aegis Armor
Backpack Insert 20% off but here's what I'm telling you.
They think they can crush your will with bullying.
They think they can crush your will by harassing everybody that's libertarian or conservative
or Christian.
They think they've got our kids in the schools.
If you take action and you start a YouTuber or Facebook or your own local radio show or
a local newsletter or write articles for the paper or letters to the editor, whatever
you little bit you do builds up and we'll win.
When you march, when you demonstrate, I'm going to start demonstrating more because
they're trying to shut us off the web.
We've got to hit the streets.
I'm going to protest Google.
You name it.
Very soon.
We'll be announcing that.
We've got all our skin in the game because we know we're really up against bad people
and at a spiritual level, at an instinctive level, they know we've got to oppose it.
They know I love humanity.
That's why they say I'm a racist.
They know I love men and women and care about everybody.
That's why they say I'm an abuser because they know it's the opposite.
They know you know that and we knew this was coming and they want to send a message to
you.
You stand up.
We're going to attack you.
We're going to lie about you.
Well, you know what?
I'm honored to be lied about and I've warned crew when they get hired.
This could happen.
I'm proud they went through all our former employees and the current ones and it took
BuzzFeed and others and Daily Mail years to find people that would engage in Judas
Iscariot type activities, Benedict Arnold activities in my opinion because we can refute
all this and we have evidence to refute it and we have employees that have been wrong.
Daria doesn't want her last name used because she's one of the only women ever in the most
elite units of special operations because she's a translator and can speak Arabic, Russian,
you name it.
Her parents come over here, anti-communist.
She's been here in the U.S. since she was what, like eight, nine years old and they
just call her in this filing a Russian operative, a Russian agent when and she's not even mad.
She says, yeah, they've gone too far.
But if it has any repercussions on her and her family or anything, serious defamation.
You can't call a woman where people like her would talk about it, G.I.
Jane's fake.
This is real.
And you just sit there and you call somebody, talk about discrimination, talk about defamation,
talk about, because of somebody's nationality, you call them an agent of a foreign power
when they're a bona fide American patriot and a decorated veteran with over 100 combat
jumps, you name it.
She doesn't want to be talking about it, but I've been told about other people once we
hired her with her great resume and all of her backgrounds and all of her defense language
school and all her great record and everything in the military for all those years.
And I talked to other people in the military, they're like, yeah, you know who that is?
That's one of the only women ever in the most elite units there are.
And then you just say in the file, Jones was there meeting with his Russian, but they say
his Russian operative to get orders.
I mean, Hillary's lawyer says, oh, this proves how bad Alex Jones is, he even makes a political
statement.
He brags, I'm Hillary Clinton's former lawyer and he is, he clerked for, this is her lawyer,
her personal lawyer that handle stuff for her and she can't believe she lost the election
and she's not all hell turned to try to do all this and the guy, it's the law firm of
Michael Jackson and all these people.
And they just say in there in a federal document as if it's total proof that she is a Russian
operative and our Russian controller, basically.
And so I can't even get into it because I've got a list of things I want to go over and
I've got to just do it later in the show because it's all just crazy.
So here's the deal.
But I don't have to worry about money because I know how to go out and advertise and market
and they cut this off, I do this, I mean, I spent a lot of my time in front of the operation.
I'm not complaining.
If you flood us with money and I mean a crap load, we will not have to sit there and mess
with all this stuff and I can get really aggressive and I'm talking about legal defense, I'm
about legal offense, you name it.
It's all up to you how hard I strike back and believe me, I've already pulled the trigger.
We are, this is it.
This is skyfall.
So everybody wants to make this personal and everybody loves her off.
So this is a major miscalculation because, but again, they never get anything real.
Don't you know they've been looking around?
So they already tried to take my kids.
They've already tried to do the government, the media, all these other groups.
And now I believe and I think the evidence is overwhelming that this is political than
they admit it's political and it's people believe they can do anything if it's against
the opposition.
I mean, I don't even go to YouTube and try to get CNN banned for bullying like they do
to me.
I just don't act like that.
I don't operate like that.
So infowarstore.com, there's a donate button and I know there's business owners.
I know there's companies.
I know there's all the nouveau rich people I know.
You know what?
I never asked Gary Haven for money.
He's been here before and said, you know, I think I'm going to give you $50,000 to help
do whatever project and I'm like, you know, Gary, you're doing enough giving it to Haiti
and your planes and all the things you do.
You just keep that money Gary and give it to Haiti.
I'm going to call Gary and I'm going to say, Gary, you're a billionaire.
I want a million dollars.
I want $2 million.
I want $5 million.
I bet he gives it to me.
And so I'm telling all the people that tried to give me money over the years, whether it's
land, patents, whatever it is, flood us with money and you've got one guarantee.
I will take that and I will wage war against the globalists and I will take them on and
I will win.
But you know what?
We only expanded this operation and tried to shut me down 10 years.
I've decided we're about to double in size.
We're going total rampage mode, infowarstore.com, everybody buy the products and everybody donate
and we will win.
Flood me with greenbacks, the war chest and I will prosecute this war and I will win with
God's grace.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x2, supermail, vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and resecured, you're finding the tip of the
sphere in the infowar.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion, take action now before we sell out.
You know, I've got some talking points here about caveman from infowarslife.com but instead
of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced personally.
From all the wives, tales and every culture, we know that the bones have the essence, we
know chicken noodle soup is great for people that are sick, again in every culture this
has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is but
the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life
force that is in this is incredible.
Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and
your veins, whether it's for your brain, whether it's for energy, this ladies and gentlemen
is the strongest, most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing.
Find out for yourself today at infowarsstore.com, what you can do for your family and again
I want to thank you all for your support, you are funding the Information War in 2018.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Thank you very much.
I got to be honest with you crank this up for a minute. Don't tread on me. I'm actually
feeling leaf right now. We are broadcasting worldwide. It is a great honor to be here with you. We're
already one hour into the 34 hour emergency broadcast to defend the internet, to defend free speech,
and to defend the Second Amendment. That's what we named it a week ago when we announced it.
And now look what we're in the middle of. All Hades breaking loose. I said I would get to a
cogent focus statement about these incredible new false allegations. But there's so many angles
and it's so false. It's just all lies. And then it's Hillary Clinton's former personal lawyer
doing it and then making political statements about how I'm a bad person and I lie on air.
So I just in this shows how bad I am just saying I'm guilty. Prosecutors don't even do that. They
just say we're going to show. And then it's it's the Garagos firm that are like leading
Armenians and Michael Jackson's lawyers. I guess that's what you get for fighting the young Turks
saying there was Armenian genocide and having them try to kick me off the air. God, I got the
Qatar money trying to get me off the air. I got the I guess I got the Armenians trying to get me
out there. Good God. It's unbelievable. Man, I tell you a Democratic Party, it's just something
wrong with it. It's just it's willing to do anything. And I think it's jumped the shark more
ways than one. But very, very, very, very saddening. Another lot of great Armenians,
they always shake my hand in airports and are big listeners and big fans. And one of the big
TV stations were on zone by Armenian gentlemen. So they're great people. But I wonder if Garagos
and Garagos is a couple of the brothers of the firm. I mean, it's like their number one lawyer
under him, this Hillary, Hillary's former lawyer, doing this. And I'm just like, and then I looked
at all the facts and looked at the record and talked to everybody and looked at what we had.
I'm just like, good God, this is incredible. But I want to get into Trump. I want to get into the
latest AI news. I want to get into Pelosi. I want to get into China censoring Winnie the Pooh.
And the word R, the letter R, that's coming up. But I'm just going to say this. When I come back,
I'm going to be focused as best I can, have the Ashley Beckford clip of her shooting guns ready
please with audio. And we'll just walk through some of the falsehoods so that I can have one focus
statement. I tried to get in here before the show and table statements. I could limit it and I was
busy with other stuff and then get it done. So I knew it'd be hard to do it on air short and sweet
because God almighty, it doesn't hurt me to have Newsweek say that I've been accused of sexually
assaulting a woman or trying to groom a male employee for gay sex. It hurts me that the media is
that bad because the EEOC complaint doesn't even say that says he hugged me once. I hugged him
once and he touched me on the back. That's not even true. And then once we were filming the caveman,
not caveman, it was the supermobile vitality. You guys cue that up. The caveman, I mean the
supermobile vitality ad. He's dressed up like a caveman, Shane Schiner. That's why I keep saying
we're like, why does his muscles look big? And he's all ripped. We were like trying to aim the
lights in the studio. You'll see the footage coming up. So I'd go in this editing studio. It's
got like four computers. We all go in this big studio and I pull up how to light bodybuilders.
So it's guys like in bodybuilding poses. And then I left that day and Rob came back to work at
night and I already like blew up and freaked out. And that's why later apologized. That's an HR
record. We're like, dude, it's bodybuilders. He's like, no, you're grooming me for gayness. It was
just crazy. Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food
and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well,
for starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation of
advanced neural activation and new tropics. And now we've added a brand new ingredient called
black pepper fruit extracts. It gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include vitamin B12
and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and super
charge your state of mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus secure your bottle right now at
infowarstore.com. You are listening to an info wars dot com frontline report. If you are receiving
this transmission, you are the resistance from deep in the heart of FEMA region six,
Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide. It's Alex Jones. They've got a lot to cover. They've
got 33 hours left in the worldwide 34 hour broadcast. We announced we were going to do
last week on March 1st. Paul Revere, Operation Paul Revere 2018 in defense of internet freedom
and defensive free speech in defense of the Second Amendment. And I had no idea that we'd
be launching this emergency broadcast with YouTube trying to ban us, Facebook trying
to ban us, the media, mainstream media, Glenn Beck, Dan Rather, Brian Stelter, all over
television saying he needs to be banned from YouTube and the rest of the internet because
we say he's fake news. Well, the president says you're fake news. Does that mean you get
banned? So I really was thinking about what was happening and my wife said a few days
ago at dinner, she said they're getting ready for something big. They want to shut you up.
They had to something really big that they're going to try to do to you. And then I talked
to other smart folks and like Mike Adams, he said, before this even broke their stay
on air, before we knew what it broke, it broke right, right then while he was on air, he
said they're getting ready for something big against free speech and against the Second
Amendment. You name it. So let me just go through some of the disinformation and lies.
If you just joined us, I'm going to move into other big news, but this is a big national
news and they're not calling me for quotes. They're not going to have, you're not going
to get to hear anything from me other than this show because this is what yellow journalism
and fake news does. They take a Daily Mail article. Here it is. The radio listeners,
I'll read it to you. Document cam shot, please. Friday, it says a fired info war staffers
at war with Alex Jones. One claimed he was teased as the sites resident Jew or the African
American worker said she was mocked for a skin tone and Jones grabbed her behind. None
of them is true. That is all 1000% fake. It's like when they tested all my supplements
and found them to be totally clean. And I said, watch, I'll just keep retesting until
they magically say they're not. And of course that happened. We had a separate lab tested
and they said, no, it is clean. They don't give up. I mean, you think I'm going to put
out supplements that aren't clean knowing they're going to give extra scrutiny? Plus
I want you to get quality. So it's the same thing. Now the Daily Mail didn't tell anybody
and I asked the Daily Mail writer, Mr. Perry, I said, you know, they're in a relationship
and he goes, well, I'm not going to talk about that. But yeah. And I said, did you pay them?
And he goes, I'm not going to discuss that. Well, I go, well, people deny they paid them
if they didn't. And I said, well, it all come out in discovery then. Because see, that's
different. You can file your EEOC and put the falsehoods there and then have it in the
press. But you can't approach the media, have it all lined up, which we know it came before
the filing, script it all with a law firm, violate your nondisclosure, not that they're
even disclosing anything true. But the point is, is that they're going past that and then
pay them. That's going to be the key. We've already got people on the ground. So it goes
on from there. A, I don't believe those things. B, what person in their right gourd would
ever do that? In fact, you go in the New York Times, Washington Post is hardly any quote
minorities. It's all talk with leftist. Same thing in Hollywood. You come in here. There's
people of every shape, color, creed, sex, you name it. Gay people, straight people, media
always walks in and goes, half the people in here aren't white. I'm like, yeah, and
a lot of the people in management are minorities and women. Yeah, it's just whoever does a
good job. That's how we operate. We're libertarians. So they know how to attack us on our foundation.
They hit us with the opposite of what we are. By the evening, three, four hours later, they
had headlines out saying that I sexually assaulted her. So they take one group of disinformation
and then it turns into sexual assault. So let's go over just some notes I wrote this
morning that are the facts because all of this is absolutely not true. They couldn't
get me to say it was true. So they called my dad in another building that deals with
supplement and, and, and the HR over there. And he's like, I don't know anything about
it, but you know, they're pretty nice. Like a locker room sometimes, but blah, blah, blah.
So they can then act like somebody said there might be something. That's the one thing that
got me mad. And I got mad yesterday when I was sitting there reading that the charges
made against myself and info wars by two former employees are a compendium of lies and false
information and twisting. We knew this was coming. This is how Hillary Clinton strikes
back. This is why people fear her. And it's her main former lawyer says it on the website.
I'm a bad guy and this shows it and then I'm a liar on air in the statements to the mail.
So this is how angry the Democrats are. So it goes on. This is the West Coast attack.
I told you months ago we have Hillary's law firm and I can't disclose the details yet,
but I will soon on the East Coast that we're engaged with. So West Coast, East Coast, it's
called a pence for attack continuing here. Newsweek CNN articles in the week leading
up to this calculated attack. There have been public efforts by deep state to pull down
our YouTube, Facebook and Twitter so that we could not respond to these attacks when
they hit, but they failed. And that's in Bloomberg today that they admit that it was fake strikes
and that they were removed and that was fraudulent and that I did not say that the students did
not die and I did not say they were crisis actors. That's Bloomberg, YouTube's new moderators
mistakenly pull right wing channels. And then the Verge also reported that they restored
info wars. Fake, but at least two publications admitted it. They said it was a mistake. Yeah,
continuing. There has been a public campaign by MSM for us to be banned off of the internet.
The EOC complaints that have been filed are filled with vicious lies and fiction. So transparent
via Russia gate. They say that they witnessed Daria who doesn't want to last name said on
there. She was in army special operations. They said that Jones would meet to get orders
from his Russian operative. I mean, you can imagine Democrats are sitting around and they're
like, he said anti-Semitic stuff. He hates black people. And there's a Russian there
running at all because out of 110 people, we have a army veteran who is Russian. Think
about that. And then it goes on from there. And of course, MSM's favorite false charge
of anti-Semitism, which again, is totally completely false. David Duke was on in a heated
debate where we were fighting with each other and I was disagreeing with it. And Jacobson
said, you have three Rob, he says, anti-Semitic. I called him Jacobson to people call me Jones
in the office. That's in there too. He said, I want to get on and debate him and you explain
him, I'm Jewish. This is a lie and I'm not running things. And I said, sure, buddy, come
on on. He turns that in the complaint and says that without his permission, I said he
was Jewish. I have all the affidavits, all the witnesses when you came storming and saying,
I want on air and I put you on air, Rob, to disagree with David Duke who I disagreed with
and to have you be able to confront him. And he goes, I will speak to the Jewish individual
and then you made a joke out of it and then you say we called you the Jewish individual.
Shame on you, Rob. Shame on you. I know your parents, they're good people. You're better
than that, Rob. Shame on you. And of course, MSM's favorite false flag anti-Semitism is
totally bull. Looking up lighting for a body builder on a multi-shoot we were doing in
the office and we went into, again, the main editing room where I had a computer, Rob had
a computer and others had computers. And I Googled how to light a body builder because
Shane didn't look as big as he does in person with the lighting in here. And then we leave
that day, Rob goes in and sees body builders on a computer, runs over to HR, screams and
yells. We have this all documented. He then apologizes when they go over and look at the
computer and it's body building and the search says how to light a body builder at our office.
For a body building shoot, I'm just showing you on video. And he flipped out at that.
It's grooming for gay sex. He says that. He felt that was grooming him for gay sex. Well,
here's the deal, Rob. I'm into girls, not guys. Okay? And everybody knows that. So
I think you flatter yourself a little too much there. But hey, you're the one defaming
me. You're the one.
Here's a special message for those of you who owe the IRS at least 10,000 or more in
back taxes. The IRS has special programs in place that could eliminate or reduce your
tax debt by thousands of dollars. Call the federal tax management helpline that has been
set up for you 800 503 86 25 stop the wage garnishments levies and tax leans. Now, once
you've qualified and enrolled, the IRS will stop all the collection activities against
you. These unique programs have been allocated to help the economy and significantly reduce
or eliminate your tax burden. The IRS is currently accepting reduced settlements and other favorable
programs you may qualify for substantial savings. So get the help you need. If you owe more than
10,000 in taxes, call for free information and to see if you qualify. Take down the number
now for the federal tax management hotline 800 503 86 25. That's 800 503 86 25 80503 86
25 one out of four people listening to my voice right now could die from heart disease.
This could be your last year and you don't even know it because you don't know the early
warning signs. If you think you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal, think
again because studies show that 75% of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol
levels. Let me introduce you to Strauss heart drops, a world famous heart and brain formula
made in Canada. It's time tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your
money back. Learn more at signs of heart disease.com. They are shipping free this month.
Hear that. That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked
the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed this year. Resolve not to be
the next victim of a break in. Go to fake tv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion
someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset and fake
TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful. Fake TV.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality. Our ultimate
non GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around
the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. Info
Wars Life wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality
in males. Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality
and energize your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality
today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com. Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection. Mitochondria produce over
95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular
energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul. Because
when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive
oxygen species. Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species. The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some
of the most powerful available on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its
ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. Boost, protect
and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Coming to you from the former United States
of America, from deep in the heart of Texas, it's Alex Jones.
We've got a short time employee, Rob Jacobson, who's been here like 14 years. He's been
here for a long time. I know it's the lawyers, the Democratic Party, and things that are
going to have to be dealt with. This is Hillary Clinton's main lawyer who has filed all this.
I want to think it was when Ashley and he got together. We knew about it. People saw
him out at restaurants, saw him together at his apartment. We knew about it. We just kind
of ignored it. But then she didn't really like Trump. I don't think she liked him from
the time she got here. I don't know if this is part of the infiltration, the Southern
Parvy Law Center and groups talk about the media matters, bragged how they're going
to infiltrate media. But they got together. We kind of turned a blind eye to it. We weren't
sure until after they left. I let her go and he got really, really, really upset. That's
in all the HR files. Why that all got documented and that'll come out. And then once it's in
a lawsuit, once it's there, we can give you all that stuff. It's pretty powerful information.
And if they wish to start saying more stuff, I think we're going to go ahead and just bring
it all out here. In fact, I'm real close to it. I do it today. We'll see. I'm not going
to just sit here while I get crucified in the media. This could really give the mainstream
media a big bloody nose if we release all this. I mean, I just am such a private guy
and I have such a heart that even though I've been lied about massively, I have a tendency
to just hold back. But continuing, looking up, uh, lighting for a bodybuilder on a multi
use room with a bunch of terminals in an office that I shared with Jacobson for editing
other employees, we looked up how to light bodybuilding and he ran over to HR. They came
over because I was already gone. They went in. They're like, Oh, this says bodybuilding.
This is, this is, this is bodybuilding. They should have bodybuilding shoot. And he apologized
and that's on record. And he'd even says that in the news reports. So that says, though,
he felt like it was gay grooming. So the news week takes bodybuilding in a building with
probably 50 editing computers with a shoot for super male vitality with a weight lifter.
My friend Shane Steiner, you all know him. Famous country singer. You name it. Brothers
world champion rodeo. So this is dad. Good family friends and Shane's friends with Rob
too is known him for 14 years. It's just bizarre. That is now, but the news never says that
it's just newsweek says grooming gay people for gay stuff. This is how they operate.
We have free concealed carry classes several times a year. It was originally at her request.
We've done since them a few other times and there is no open carry in the office, but
they say there's open carry. She's anti gun, but we're pro gun and intimidated her. And
this is just crazy. And then we'll get to some of the other points. But let's go to
a special report with Ashley Beckford, who got hired as just an intern and we said, Hey,
you want to be on air and then gave her two raises. And it says in there, we were bad.
The raises weren't big enough. So my lawyers are very confident. They say none of this
even makes sense. I talked to folks about the supposed image of a Hasidic Jew with Rob's
face on it. And they said, Yeah, no, Rob had that on his computer. And we asked why. And
then Rob do pulled it off his computer. And that was right before he left C. So you can
see what's going on here. Let's go ahead and go to this part of this special report with
Ashley Beckford. Here it is.
Ashley shooting a Glock radio listener. She's got her info wars.com, Trump for president
shirt or Hillary for president shirt. Hey, guys, give me the day to this report was this
mid 2016. I'm Ashley Beckford reporting for info wars.com. As we know, guns are severely
demonized in our society. In fact, Chris Hayes from MSNBC recently said that he was glad
that the terrorists who bombed Chelsea did not have a firearm because the carnage would
have been much greater. What a joke. As we know, we've seen so many incidences where
people with Islamic backgrounds have been procuring firearms and then using them to
inflict deadly carnage. They've been attacking people from San Bernardino quote workplace
violence to the Orlando nightclub shooting hate crime. We have people all over the country
and all over the world who are attacking people with guns. That's why I realized in order
to be a true feminist, I had to learn to protect myself.
Now, she says that it was a culture of guns that intimidated her and we have emails where
she requested and others requested the free class. By the way, taught by a black firearms
instructor is our good buddy, Mr. Cargill. In this uncertain world, I knew that I needed
to take advantage of the Texas laws and go ahead and get my concealed handgun license
and my license to carry by going ahead and going to Central Texas Gun Works met Michael
Cargill. He's a friend and fan of the show and it only took one day. It only took a few
hours for me. She says in there that we were white supremacist. She also said on our Facebook
and by the way, Ashley, we saved all that stuff here on Facebook before you filed this
one, Rob, we filed and we got all the other stuff off your Facebook before you deleted
it. It's all saved. We're not stupid. We figured it out about a month before Rob and we figured
this might get pulled, Rob. And so don't know how it's going to go for Hillary's former
top lawyer, Ben Macellis who brags on his own law firm website about this. I can't
look at any more of it. Can we play the Superman vitality ad though from four years ago with
Leanne McAdoo who wanted to be in the shoot, wanted to be in the caveman shoot. There's
this new thing where women are in movies. Leanne is not saying this. Women are in movies
and they say kissing scenes are now assault. But you sign on, you do a kissing scene, you
do whatever. This is a caveman running off with the women. You know, fine, fine. And
this is the, this is the recruiting. This is grooming for gayness. This is where that
came from. And that we, Shane didn't look as big under our lights. So we do lighting
right here. We tried to light things to make his muscles look like they really look, but
it didn't work. So he didn't look as big as he is, even though he's huge. So let's go
ahead and go to that footage.
Unprecedented. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to see what happens right now.
Something's wrong. Something's wrong with him helping. Ladies and gentlemen, we did
not endeavor that to happen. I take it personally, do not have those problems. Again, these are
these are authorized herbs. Well known to be safe. And please, doctor, doctor, wait a minute,
ladies and gentlemen, we're just going to cut, cut the commercial was just a moment.
Get your money out of here.
That is grooming for gayness. I mean, unbelievable that this is unbelievable. This info and
I can't believe the Clinton connected lawyer would do this. It's crazy.
It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need. Period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more. Right. And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity, water filtration, big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey
or big Berkey water filters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS'
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, DanPilla.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and
being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well. And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to
say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for
the Anthroplex too. Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans. The Super Blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars
Life products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for
doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely. Because then we could all, as educated patriots,
help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on and
if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our
country back.
You know, I've got some talking points here about Caveman from InfoWarsLife.com. But
instead of going with those talking points, let me just give you what I've experienced
personally. From all the wives' tales in every culture, we know that the bones have
the essence. We know chicken noodle soup. It's great for people that are sick. Again,
in every culture, this has been reported because it works. And there's no way to quantify
how strong this is, but the amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount
of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, whether
it's for your joints, whether it's for your arteries and your veins, whether it's for
your brain, whether it's for energy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the strongest, most
concentrated bone broth formula out there. And it's amazing. Find out for yourself today
at InfoWarsStore.com, what it could do for your family. And again, I want to thank you
all for your support. You are funding the Information War in 2018.
InfoWarsLive is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found an extraordinary,
new, natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health, and normal breathing.
This is pollen blood. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes, and excessive mucus production. And again, studying the effects
in published trials, in their published trials, now we are introducing the fruit of the research,
a fast-acting chewable tablet, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress, and
fast-acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal
distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now
at InfoWarsLive.com or by calling toll-free, triple-A-253-3139.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, our next guest is on record last year on our broadcast predicting
that white farmers would have all their land taken in South Africa that similarly has been
done in many other areas of Africa, and that now they're going beyond replacing apartheid
with an apartheid state where whites are treated unfairly, but where whites are actually killed.
And the new president's saying, we're not going to kill all the whites yet. He just
made that statement yesterday. In other statements, the new president, communist president, talks
about how they are going to take their land. And so last year, our guest warned that soon
that the old president would be taken out of power for corruption, and the new president
would indeed do this. So we're going to be going to Simon Roche here in just a moment
and breaking that down. But first, we told you that they were falsely claiming that we
were bullying children and engaging all these activities on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter,
you name it, where we were being restricted and banned. CNN was running operations to
have us banned. Bloomberg is now reporting that YouTube said that the strikes were false
and have been removed. Also, the Verge is reporting that the strikes were removed, that
they were fraudulent. Mistakenly, shut down. So we're going to be going over all of that
today. It's hard to look at the Daily Mail the same now, though, because they do a lot
of good stuff. That's why I was shocked when they went with that fake EEOC complaint that
already went over earlier. But let me just finish up with that. My lawyers have looked
at this and said the complaint is so contradictory and poorly written that it must be a publicity
stunt. But I don't think, I don't think Ashley and Rob know that. And again, she claims I
hugged her and the media says it's sexual assault. And quite frankly, she was very touchy-feely
as everybody is going to testify this is true and I am not. So it's just unbelievable. Like
saying you hug somebody is now sexual assault. According to Newsweek and the rest of it,
they're coming after us. It's like they're coming after Trump. And Trump is now backpedaling
on the Second Amendment. It is amazing. Meanwhile, you know, you know, I'm not even going to
play the race card in my defense. It's just none of what's true anyways. I'm just not
going to go there, but it's a tactic. I'm not going to go there, but he always goes there.
I'm the same way because I can't help it. I think about it. It's like when I say I'm
anti-communist Chinese, I say I'm anti-Asian. My sister's Korean adopted. I love her. She's
my blood. She's my family. She works here, by the way. She's a great photographer and
great videographer and great researcher. She's Korean. She's my sister. And, you know,
my ex-wife's family were not practicing Jews, but they were liberals. And I just liked my
ex-wife. And I didn't even really think about the fact that she was Jewish. That's how blind
I am to that type of stuff. And then what it means for my children and everything else
and all the white supremacists hating me and everything else. And that just shows how sick
this is that now the media says I'm an anti-Semite. That's why I'm pro-Israel. That's why I've
been defending Netanyahu is because I'm an anti-Semite. I mean, it's the left and the
self-loathing Jews that use all this anti-Semitism crud everywhere. And it's crazy. And I'm
not saying Netanyahu is perfect either. Neither is Trump. But he's nationalistic. The globalists
are trying to bring him down. And so it's just mind-blowing to watch this happen. And
look, my ex-wife's mother was Jewish. Her dad wasn't. But it doesn't matter. That makes
her Jewish. And you can then argue since she's a mother that I guess Israel would accept
my kids. But they're just red-blooded Christian Americans. But I'm not ashamed of their Jewish
heritage. But I'll tell you this. It takes a lot of baggage with it. I've gotten a lot
of hate for it. And then to get hate from leftist groups that know the truth is just
the Nazis are bad and the leftist groups are just as bad. They're all bad. Soros is a Nazi
collaborator that helped round up thousands of his fellow Jews. And then he has groups
saying, I'm a Nazi collaborator when he's a Nazi. I mean, it just shows how reprobate
and bankrupt the leftist are. And she's my ex-wife now. And you know, it's my new wife's
and her pedigree is German, three quarters German from Omaha and a quarter Irish. And
I'm proud of that background. And the anti-Semites call her a call her Jewish and everything else.
And if she was, I'd be proud of it. But no, she's got a noble nose, but she's not Jewish.
So you know, that's what all this comes down to, ladies and gentlemen. And it just is insane.
It's absolutely insane. And I'm just trying to have free market and restore the country.
And they're using race politics and race war politics and everywhere the left's in control.
By the time they get into the final equations, they always kill anybody that's free market,
kill anybody that's Christian and kill anybody that's white. And it's happened in five different
African nations last 30 years. And now as it was predicted, tapping in South Africa,
we look at the data when our guest was last on, we come back, I'm going to go to him for
several segments, but I need to just say this right now. And then briefly, they just corrected
me. I'm so used to going on at 11 a.m. We do 24 hour broadcast for longer ones. And
then David Knight's on for six months with a great job. With his broadcast 8 a.m. every
morning with David night show. That's a trademark issues. We're going to call it David night
show starting soon or something else. What's calling it real news. The point is, is that
some Democrat groups trademark that and suing us. That's another little side issue that
I'm going to tell you about. It's all yeah. And in three of the suits, it's Clinton lawyers
and they admit they are. And then I got little messages like, you know, back off, buddy.
It's going to get a lot worse. I wanted to say this. I want to say this effect. Take
this club and put it on the front of segment two and three, because I want this upfront.
I'm not changing course. I'm not backing down. I'm not giving in. There's nowhere I want
to be more than right here. And this fight for America and for justice and for truth.
You guys want to be the lie. You want to be involved in deception. All you Clinton operatives
and you know, lawyers and people want to sit here and play these games. I know our listeners
want justice. They want the country back. They want the world back. And I believe in
our listeners and I believe they're going to financially buy our products and spread
our articles and videos and know that you're trying to shut us down as CNN and others have
openly said they're trying to do and that the Streisand effect is going to blow up in
your face. And I know there's Providence and I trust in God. Whatever happens is in God's
plan, but I actually feel good doing this because it confirms how bad you guys are and
how deceptive you are and how just absolutely willing to do anything you are and how much
we've got to fight you. So I thank God and I ask for Providence and I thank God for this
great crew and the rest of the people here that have stood strong. Everybody in this
office got calls from BuzzFeed and all these groups and none of them would make anything
up even though Mike Adams was offered $50,000 last year who contributes here and has a big
office in Austin, $50,000. I think he's ready to go public with who did it by the way, which
publication we're going to, we're going to take the gloves off. Okay. And we're doing
some investigations and all the rest of it, but if people want the gloves off, baby, you
got it. And how strong our punches are politically is up to you. So infowarstore.com 30 to 80%
off. We've never had a sale this big 50% off the new best source fiber we've got from all
these cranberry and other fruit fibers that are the very best, just high quality products
infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, water filtration, air filtration, storeable food,
books, videos, Patriot apparel, Operation Paul Revere, save free speech, save the internet,
save the second amendment. We had this plan for a week and what a perfect day to be doing
this right now than with all of you. So infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com or triple eight 253-3139.
And we also put up the donate page. I want to put up a big donate button actually right
there on the front. We're going to do that. You can find the donate page, but where is
the link? I'm trying to find it. We're going to email it out to everybody that signed up
for the newsletter that's free at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. No, no, I know that's
the donate button. I'm saying where on infowarstore.com is the link because we need to make it easy
to find on the front page. That's what I'm saying. I wanted to pop up for that for everybody.
That's what I'm getting at. We'll be right back. Thank you for your support. You'll decide
whether we survive and defeat the globalists or are destroyed.
Floor life. The new probiotic line developed exclusively by infowarslife. After years of
research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same. Floor life probiotics
use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly
into the intestines for maximum effect. This is critical because stomach acid kills most
probiotics. So if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your
gut health and your wallet. Floor life supports your body's core, where you need it most,
including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism. Did you know
that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut? That's why increasing gut probiotic
levels is so important for overall health. Floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic
for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program. Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Floor Life probiotics today.
That's infowarslife.com.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain
pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's
beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to
their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for
the formulae. And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and
your purchase fuzz the operation.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by infowarslife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowarslife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic and
clinically studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of
the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
New from EmRick's Essentials, fragrance free natural deodorant for your body care needs.
Playing basketball in the dry summer heat really makes me sweat. To maintain my game,
I need all the confidence I can get. That's why I use EmRick's Essentials natural deodorant
made with organic ingredients. This deodorant combines mineral crystals with natural botanicals
to ionize odor, keeping me fresh throughout the day. While shooting hoops, the last thing
I want is sweaty armpits making my hands slippery and the ball wet. That's why I recommend
EmRick's Essentials fragrance free deodorant. Even though it's unscented, it's effective
at combating strong body odor and I don't have to worry about any unwanted allergic
reactions to my sensitive skin. Whether you're a guy or a gal, the last thing you want to
be worried about is your deodorant. No petroleum based ingredients, 100% natural and cruelty
free. Stay in the game with EmRick's Essentials fragrance free natural deodorant available
at InfoWarsStore.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So, here's Julius Malema, about seven months after our guest joined us to warn of this.
He said he would do just this and we're about to go to our guest. This is what he's now
saying about taking the white people's farmland, which by the way is the most productive and
employs the most people. And when they took it in five other African nations and they
totally collapsed into cannibalism, which is like Venezuela, you can't call people
dying from starvation saying they died from starvation. Here it is.
The expropriation of land without compensation is envisaged as one of the measures that we
will use to accelerate redistribution of land to black South Africans. We will need to determine
collectively how we can implement this measure in a way that promotes agricultural production,
improves food security, advance rural development, reduce poverty.
Let's stop right there before I throw up. We have another clip where they talk about
we're not going to kill all the whites yet. Everywhere else this happens. I mean, I just
don't know why they don't just get secret technology from Wakanda. But what's happening
is they want to kick Wakanda technology out. They want to kick the Dutch and British Africaners
out of the country. And you know, the problem is the West didn't let those poor folks get
out. So increasingly they're just being murdered and joining us is Simon Roche. Thank you for
coming on. Again, the websites are suidlanders. Free S-T-A-R-T-R. Tell folks how you best
pronounce those. You've got all the videos, all the articles, the videos of white farmers
being murdered, the media celebrating it. They celebrate cops being killed here. This
is what the Marxist do everywhere. Give us a report since you joined us last year and
what you predicted has now come true. He's now president and he's now calling for your
land to be taken and we'll play the clip coming up. Sister, no, he's not going to kill you
quite yet though. So he's being liberal. You should thank him.
Yes. Well, Cyril Ramaphosa, the guy that you just featured in your clip is the new president
of the Republic of South Africa. And shortly after gaining the presidency, he made it very
clear that land expropriation without compensation, and this is vital for people to know, but not
only land as in farmland, but white owned property will now be subject to expropriation.
And two days ago, the parliament accepted a motion to initiate a process to change the
constitution of the country so that this can go ahead. The motion proceeded with 241 votes
to 83. So there was overwhelming support for it and clearly we are now entering that phase
where white owned property as it has been defined, not merely land, especially land,
but not merely land, white owned property will now be confiscated or expropriated without
compensation. And by the way, you corrected it when I had you on. The president called
for the compensation without any compensation of white farmer land that produces, I know,
the majority of the food. We'll talk about those numbers in a moment. He's saying take
the land of compensation. It's Julius Malema, the communist leader, who says we're not going
to kill you quite yet. So you've got the good cop just says we're going to take your land.
The bad cop says we're going to kill you. Let's go ahead and play Julius Malema. Here
it is.
We, the rightful owners, our peace was disturbed by white men's arrival here. They committed
a black genocide. They killed our people during land dispossession. Today, we're told don't
disturb them. Even when they disturbed our peace, they found peaceful Africans here.
They killed them. They slaughtered them like animals. We are not calling for the slaughtering
of white people, at least for now. What we are calling for is for peaceful occupation
of the land. And we don't owe anyone apology.
Yeah, first we take your land, then we kick you off the internet like Hitler did the Jews,
then we kill you. And I forget the numbers, but guys, can you look it up in the World
Almanac online? I want to say Africa's population is 50 times what it was when colonization
started 400, 500 years ago. I mean, the West has brought nothing but overall good, just
like America's. When you got here, the natives would kill you if you didn't help fight the
other natives. They were always killing each other, just like Europeans before the Renaissance
were killing each other. This idea that everybody's so loving in Africa. The Africans were saying,
you buy slaves or we're going to kill you. That was the main business, was black selling
blacks. And then the Arabs came in and did it. The blacks were all for it, because that
was their main business. So let's, yeah, we'll also roll some of the footage of what's going
on, the attacks on whites, the burning of buildings, the burning of infrastructure.
Because it's this thing that the leftists do here and happens in Africa as well, just
burn the infrastructure down and knock your electricity out. Why do folks do this and
why is it escalating? It's escalating because the government has failed to deliver on anything
that it's promised over recent years. The government has been in power now for almost
24 years. That is to say the African national Congress party of Nelson Mandela fame in 24
years. The life expectancy has declined by at least 4.3 years, which is almost impossible
to do, but it has been done. And indeed, if you follow the statistics of the, the United
States Census Bureau, released in late 2016, then the decline in age, a life expectancy
is far greater. It's approaching 10 years. The unemployment rate, the official rate
is 38.1%. The unofficial rate is obviously far higher and more realistic. At the recent
United Nations AIDS conference held in South Africa, global AIDS conference, it was revealed
that 19%, so one in five practically, of all AIDS cases in the world is in South Africa.
It's a shambles. It's an absolute shambles. I live in a little, very small village on
the banks of the famous Orange River named for Prince William of Orange, the Protestant
chap who stood against Spain. And we have recently discovered that our African national Congress
municipality has lost 7 million ransom worth of money that was paid for electricity.
And let me stop you right there. Let me stop you right there. Rhodesia, then Zimbabwe,
all these other places, the Congo, first thing nationalized, then they make the whites keep
working on the land, then they kill them, then everything collapses, then they have
multi-billion famous inflation. Why is Africa so corrupt once the evil colonists are kicked
out, then you should have Wakanda if it should be like spaceships and the vibranium and everything,
which would be great. I love Africa. It's a beautiful country, a continent, a lot of
beautiful countries. I want them to do well, fellow humans, but this thing about get the
whites out that brought the civilization, why does it then recede back into total barbarism
that everybody's starving, but the president's son has 100 Lamborghinis.
Let me put it to you this way. Shortly after that chap, Cyril Ramaphosa, our new national
president, was elected the president of his party prior to becoming the national president.
He and a group of senior people went to Nelson Mandela's grandson, who was a traditional leader
as a chief. They sought permission to go to Nelson Mandela's grave to shake his bones.
That is to say, to invoke the ancestral spirit of Nelson Mandela to reinvigorate the African
National Congress Party. That is indicative of the gulf between one culture and another.
They're so far apart that they're irreconcilable. It's just as simple as that, Alex.
But why not evacuate? I mean, because they're going to get killed. I mean, why not just
evacuate?
No, no, no. Our forefathers built this land with faith in God, blood, sweat, and tears,
Alex, and they built something beautiful. We will not go. We will not capitulate to
the face of barbarism. It's an unacceptable proposition. We will stand down and we'll fight
to the death.
We don't want everybody to die. We don't want everybody to die, but they're going to die.
They're going to kill you and then kill themselves. You can't help them. You're standing in the
way of Wakanda.
Alex, we are going to stand if we are the last Christian nation in the history of the world
that stands for Almighty God. We will stand and fight and die here. Watch us.
No, I actually respect that and understand it. I know what you guys have been through.
It's been hellish. I'm even really good to the locals, built everybody up, the population
exploded. And there's a lot of black folks that actually don't want to see everybody
go, but, you know, they get killed and hacked up, don't they? I read about it all the time,
but the blacks that want to work with everybody, they get killed, don't they?
Yeah, it's a very, very big problem. That fact is referred usually to as intimidation.
So in other words, anybody who doesn't toe the party line gets chopped to pieces. They're
tens of thousands of examples.
I didn't win. I used to hang the gasoline tires on a little kid's head. Their favorite thing,
she said, was here, little kid's heads pop. And they like to do that. The necklace thing
is what it's called. It's very liberal. We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
Oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
We'll be right back.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show from the front lines of the information war. It's
Alex Jones.
Simon Roche is a leader of a Christian organization. And I've studied the factions and things.
It's very fascinating. I read quite a few books on it in South Africa and how the country
got set up and different factions that were involved, the Zulus and then the ANC and then
the African Connors, the Dutch that were Protestants. And then the British came in and the Boer
War and Winston Churchill and I probably only read eight, nine books on it. It sounds like
I'm bragging. It's actually not a lot. It's very interesting. And so why don't you just
quantify who you guys are, the biggest group still of farmers going back to Dutch background
and others, holding on, feeding a large portion of the country, kind of like Amish do in several
South American countries where they produce over 80%. You're kind of Amish-like folks
that went to South Africa and now they're announcing they're going to kill you. They
are killing you. The second largest party says they're going to start killing you. The
president says, no, we're just going to take their land and just throw you out into the
bushes. And you got really mad earlier. And I wasn't trying to get you riled up. I was
just saying, why not evacuate it? And you got pretty animated there. So tell us who
you are for people out there watching. Quantify that. This is where Simon will come back to
the next. And then talk about why you're so, so, so dedicated.
Well, our organization is called Southlanders, which means Southlanders. We are the largest
non-state-owned civil defense organization in the world, and we're constituted under
international law, particularly protocols one and two additional to the Geneva Conventions,
which makes specific provision for identifiable ethnic groups to group together in conditions
of conflict where they are threatened. And we are preparing for a civil war, the civil
war that is now being promised to us by our former president, by Julius Malema, by the
head of the constitutional court of South Africa. The list just goes on and on and not
least our minister of defense who recently promised a genocide. This was broadcast.
That's right. The communists run the defense department in South Africa now.
Yeah, absolutely. Bear in mind that the African National Congress political party is actually
only one-third of a greater organization. One-third of it is the political party. One-third
of it is a trade union organization. And one-third of it is the South African Communist Party.
Indeed, Nelson Mandela remains. Well, they've always been the heart of it for those that
don't know, but they've been expanding on this. The left always does this everywhere.
They say whether it's just an issue between a communist and capitalist or whether it's
black or white, they say be liberal, let us take over, we'll be sweet. Then they always
enslave and kill. Venezuela, it's not even cultural. It's political. They were as rich
as the U.S. or richer, just like Argentina. Now they're eating out of trash everywhere.
Total collapse. Thousands are dying a week from starvation, but the government passed
a law where you can't call it starvation. I mean, this is what communists do.
This is what they do, Alex. They always do it, and there's never an exception. And you
can see it, and I say this in humility and respect. You can see it in certain United
States cities that I visited for six months last year. The trend is so clear and so consistent
and so reliable and so dependable. There's just no argument to be held about this. Our
goal is to safeguard the welfare of non-competent civilians in a crisis, which we are preparing
for right now, in which we've recently been promised repeatedly, as I say.
I'm going to go to break, but give us a timeline. Ten years ago, people didn't listen to you.
Now, everybody's listening because it's happening.
Yeah, that's right. People are listening, and we are trying desperately last minute
to try and prepare for it, and that's why we are begging the world to support us. We
just started a free starter campaign in the USA with Charles C. Johnson and the support
of some American senators, and we are imploring people, please help us. We desperately need
help. There is big trouble coming here.
And we've got George Soros and the WikiLeaks wants to overthrow Israel. I mean, every
western little enclave is about to be annihilated. Why do you think that is?
It's a thing that goes back thousands and thousands and thousands of years, Alex. This
fight between good and evil is unrelenting. It's nothing special. It's nothing original.
I see that you've just brought up the campaign. It kicked off about half an hour ago, and
yeah, there you've got it there. And we just have to keep up the fight.
We're going to talk about it when we come back. By the way, we're in the same position,
so we need support as well, but who will support you like last time? Because they're
trying to shut us down ahead of persecution.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again. You
can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you
can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWars
Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Climbing Roche runs the biggest civil defense group in the world, basically. Dutch, quasi-Amish,
and a lot of them have been overrun, a lot of them have been killed, just like in five
other African nations in Bobway, the most famous. There were something like a million
white farmers there, then it fell down to less than 20,000. They were still producing
almost all the country's food. Now they're all gone. Just a few years ago, the government
raided the houses and mainly killed a few thousand elderly that just couldn't leave.
They already given the farms over, the tractors, everything. They usually would move them
into like a shed and they just came in and blew their heads off. The national TV celebrated
it because it's liberal. White people must be racist and bad and now the country has
completely collapsed into total hell on earth. I just don't think the average leftist realizes
that this whole communist programming and trying to make blacks racist and turning everybody
against each other here in America is a communist tactic and that Mandela was a communist. His
wife famously would line up children and put tires over their heads, put gasoline in and
burn them up and sit there and go while they did it. This is who we're told to worship.
You'll get rid of one thing apartheid that I think was bad, but you understand it's
a total barbarous state with different groups and the British came in and took control of
it and then exploited it. I'm not bashing Brits. I'm Welsh. The point is the British
empire and then you think about reconners and other groups that were already there in
many cases living in peace with the natives who wanted them to come in and create agriculture
and jobs and then now you've got black racist nationalist communist saying kill the whites.
We just played that last hour. This is a nightmare situation. So you should support them. Their
plight is very, very serious and it's something that our media won't even cover. Remember
all the free South Africa stuff? Well, I was for that, but I knew that it didn't need to
be replaced with communism. It didn't need to be replaced with a more equitable, you
know, free market system. That hasn't been done. The multinationals are being more exploited
than ever. They just get private mercenaries to guard the very mines instead of actually
investing in the country. I've seen numbers that investment from the mines and investment
from the big industrial agriculture is plummeted under black rule. I'm going to say that again.
The black leaders are keeping the money for themselves, not like the white leaders who
were sharing power. We're putting it back in because they live there. Stabilize things.
Let's have a nice life. No. So again, they're replacing one bad thing with something 50
times worse. We'll talk to him in a moment, but listen, folks, a lot of people have called
me friends, family neighbors and they've said, how are you taking thousands of articles
saying that I it's all over TV saying Alex Jones sexually assaulted male and female
employees. And then you actually read the EEOC complaint and it says one time Jones
hugged me and might have touched me a little bit on my butt. Not even true. And that sexual
assault. I mean, it's not true. And then we're doing a bodybuilding shoot for a supplement
ad and I'm in a major editing suite with four different computers. I'm like, he doesn't
look right because later in the thing, you know, he rips his shirt off like Hulk Hogan
at St. Steiner and kind of fast forward because it comes back with him with his shirt off
in the end with with the girls. And this is this is homoerotic. They're claiming and
we were Googling how to light a bodybuilder. He was saying, man, it doesn't show my ripped
chest to that shot right there. And I guess, you know, the light wasn't right, but we just
couldn't figure it out that it says it. He came in, he saw it. He ran over to HR. They
come and they go, Rob, it says how to light bodybuilding and it's bodybuilders. We have
that written up in HR. This is now national news that I was grooming him. He says, I
mean, he says, Jones never asked me to go out with him. Jones never asked me for sex.
Jones never nothing. This is a guy I've had over for Thanksgiving three or four times
because he was a loner and I've got to feel sorry for him. And he was kind of a smart
writer in ways, but he was always too frustrated. And so Rob's a smart guy, but he just went
downhill and I really feel sorry for him. I mean, when you read the complaint, it says
we wear Nazi shoes. It's what what is that somebody mailed in things of Hillary with
the Nazi symbol on her, some Japanese lady that sewed the shoes for us. I'm trying to
find them. So much stuff comes in the mail room, but that matter. The media takes the
EOC complaint that's twisted and weird and deceptive and it takes it and then ups its
game like the Prairie Home Companion guy. The woman hugged him. Her shirt went up and
she said she touched her skin and they fired him. They're just setting a precedent. Meanwhile,
we got all the pedophilia in Hollywood and the rest of it. So financially support us.
We have to have a legal defense fund. This is the best defense is a good offense. I've
already launched stuff major this morning. If we have to do this and don't up the amount
of money coming in, it will cut into production. It'll cut into operations. It'll cut into
our reach and exposing news that they don't want exposed. We can't let them get us in
a shrinking mode. Last year, they banned us off Google advertising. That cost us 5 million.
You came through. You bought. It was just the same time. February, March last year.
You came back and within three months of extra orders and donations, we raised the 5 million
dollars it takes to run this. I'm going up on extra satellites. Affiliates are picking
us up like crazy. The globalists know this. They're scared. This show is exploding, but
it's exploding. The people we reach not in money. Okay. So people on TV, UHF, VHF cable
watching us. They're not really buying stuff. It's talk radio. It's the Christian audience.
It's patriots. It's that dedicated small percentage. I need you. You've done so much to stand
in the way of these. I'm ready to take the next stuff they make up. I'm ready to, if
they kill me, I'm ready. I'm not saying Rob and his lawyers. I'm saying, you know, Hillary
and the globalists because I mean, this is serious. I'm ready and it's not because I'm
a hero. I know I can't give in to them. I know I can't back down. I understand why he
doesn't want to try to evacuate. I was just asking the, you know, devil's advocate question
out of South Africa, even though the president's announcing, we're going to take your land
and the defense minister says we're going to kill you. Okay. Once we put you in, in,
in camps, that's actually the, the, the, the, the communist plan. They always want to put
their opposition in camps. So info or store.com 30 to 80% off. But a lot of these 80% off,
those are clearance items, t-shirts that are great, but some reason nope, never sold or
a lot of other stuff, some brand new best supplements, 50% off, uh, like our new super
fiber, best fiber, a probiotic fiber, it's all there. We need the financing, but when
you go to info wars.com, a pop up pops up, where you go to info wars.com forward slash
show, you'll see a donate button and I need the middle class folks, the wealthy people,
the folks that I've never said, Hey, we need the money. I'm going to call people like Gary
Haven today who's offered me money before and I've said, no, we're doing all right.
I'm selling product. He offered me $50,000 once and I said, no, and then he gave me 20
and then I'm going to call Gary and I'm going to say, Gary, I need the money and Mike Adams
offered money. People don't know Mike Adams is bigger than we are global. He's huge. He
is bigger when it comes to actual numbers than we are. Mike, Mike's called yesterday
before he was coming on. He said, I want to donate. So I'm going to get on the phones.
I'm going to raise a bunch of money, but I need you to load us up with money right now.
I need you to support local affiliates, send them a hundred bucks a month as well. I need
you to put your calendar to tithe the info wars so we can support pastors and groups
all over the world, people defending freedom, defending freedom of speech and exposing all
the evil that's going on, but we're under attack and so far we brought in less money.
We brought in last year at this time, $500,000 less. I met with the accountant yesterday
and I'm looking at a very aggressive program because I've got to, I've got to stop this
now while they're trying to pay people because I talked to Daily Mail. They wouldn't deny
that they were paying. I've got to let folks know that listen, you know, we've got to
have, I'm not going to say what we're going to do. It's all legal and lawful, but it's
very aggressive. And so they want to fight. They better believe they got one and that
includes everybody involved. That includes everybody. So I need a lot of money. I need
it right now and I commit to you a hundred percent of the money that comes in and donations
and product sales this week will go to, I mean, I already, 95% of the money comes in
here goes to this operation. Then I build up money to fight them and do this and that
because you know, we got to have some backup money. I don't give a rat's ass about things.
I care about ideas and defeating the globalists. We're going to come back with our guests,
finish up in the final segment, but I'm just telling you, this is a total war. They're
taking off the gloves. You see it. You saw all the attacks this week. They get more of
our sponsors. That's on the news. They tried to ban us off the internet. They're lying about
who we are. They already tried to take my kids away and I'm not complaining. I'm just saying
this is a war. We're up against authoritarians and they're useful idiots and they're minions
and this is Hillary Clinton's former main lawyer. He brags about it. Is the person running
this suit and the whole EEOC thing and they admit the things political. They say we're
full of crap. We need to be exposed. Yeah, right. We'll be back.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve, life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10
year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes
and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can
alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes
has totally improved. Everyone has told me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract
to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent
should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online
at hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the Info War, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarstore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders of about $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month. Just go to infowarstore.com, select your favorite
product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another
order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with a new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping
on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship.
Info War's Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. We have found extraordinary
new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear
nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing. This
is pollen blood. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs from specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny
nose, itchy watery eyes and excessive mucus production. They began studying the effects
in published trials and they're published trials. Now we are introducing the fruit of
the research of fast acting chewable tablets, just two tablets at the first sign of seasonal
distress and fast acting pollen block starts working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate
seasonal distress. Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast acting pollen block available
now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free. Triple A 253 3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Here's the cut for psychology experiments on why Alex Jones is always taking his shirt
off. Well that violates the Goldwater rule of diagnosing somebody from afar that's a violation
of the code of the American Psychological Association but they don't care. I've taken
my shirt off probably five, six times in 23 years on air and I do it as stunts like Hulk
Hogan. Like where I'm a Hillary supporter that goes crazy and has to be restrained so
I pull my shirt off because it's an anti-Hillary shirt. It's an ad for the shirt. We sold almost
$100,000 of them. It worked. Then I showed how I lost some weight when I was really fat
and then I've had people, listeners take pictures of me like some of those were taken by tabloids
like I'm in Hawaii and they're taking pictures of me or once I went out in the snow and jumped
in water. I mean everybody else does it too. I mean it's just crazy. Everybody else does
it. So if I lose 30 pounds I'm going to show you a picture like everybody else does but
then they go through. It's a show of dominance. It's all this other crap. No it's cold doing
a show and it's cold having some fun. So we've got communists saying murder conservatives,
murder libertarians, murder Trump, murder all the whites of South Africa and their answer
is how bad we are because I take my shirt off. It is simply incredible and they never
let us respond to what they make false charges. All right, Simon Roche of the Southlanders,
civil defense group, he was here with us last year over six months ago and he warned that
the new president was about to get in who said he wanted to take all the land from white
settlers who'd been there 400 years in some cases. He has the emergency plan. The only
one of its kind in the world. Yeah, nobody ever stands up. They just incrementally get
picked off and picked off and picked off. Mainly they got to defend the old folks and
now they have the defense minister who's number two in the government, the communist leader
said we're going to kill the whites. We just played those clips earlier. So please continue
sir and tell folks how they can support your organization.
Well we have a good plan. We have good membership and we have lots of experience, training and
skills. Unfortunately in the New South African rainbow nation as the liberals call it, we
are persona non grata. It's very difficult for us to raise money. People have lost their
jobs for less than supporting an organization like us. So we are asking for people to help
us financially so that we can purchase diesel fuel, medicine, food, tents and clothing for
women, children, the elderly and the disabled. We need support from the whole world. I have
just received a message. I'll quote it to you. Julius Malema who you had on earlier
says the following. We want to teach these white people we mean business about property
expropriation without compensation. He then went on to say in front of a very excited
audience, we are going for your white man to cut the throat.
And we just played him saying you know we're not going to kill you quite yet but now he's
saying that in your country the defense minister you pay taxes to says he's coming to racially
murder you. Yes, that's correct. And except things are reaching a crisis now it has been
building up for a long, long time. Very gradually indeed our new president, Cyril Ramaphosa
who you also had on earlier is famous for having said some years ago, we are going to
treat the whites like a frog in hot water. We're going to boil them so slowly they won't
realize until it's too late and then they'll be dead. That's the situation we're in. It
has been building up to this point and now we're about to hit the wall at a hundred miles
an hour. A big crisis is coming here. Well you can see that he's hyping people up he's
getting them ready to obviously invigorate the Communist Party so it completely takes
over and then has a red terror. Well it's exactly as Dr. Gregory Stanton of Genocide
Watch in Washington DC said. He said this is the path that they follow and right towards
the end they use this traumatic rhetoric to get the blood racing and then they launch
their thing. Well let me say this. When somebody says we're coming to kill you because of your
race and they're a defense minister I'm not calling for this but generally if somebody
ends up taking this guy out he asks for it and everybody around him and when they say
we're coming to kill you and your family because you're white I'm the defense minister he has
that power to do it. He needs to be removed right now because this is unbelievable. Oh
Alex it's not unique it's a she as it happens but it's not unique you know in the middle
of last year. I'm confused and Julius Malema leader of the Marxist opposition we played
the club earlier he said we're gonna you know we're not gonna kill you all yet and you were
just quoting I guess one of his adjuncts because his names escape me go back to and just be
clear who said the latest? Ah the the latest is from Julius Malema our bigger partner I
thought you were talking about the defense minister which is a she. Okay so oh so she's
doing it too Julius Malema is the leader of the Marxist. That's right. So you've got
the defense minister you've got okay okay I thought it was just him doing it so you've
got the defense minister you've got you've got the the number two party you've got the
president saying take your land good god. And and boil them alive like frogs and that
it doesn't end there the head of the constitutional court the brother of one of our former presidents
the the head of the African National Congress's private militia of which Nelson Mandela was
head the very famous terrorist organization in Konto where Seasway which means the spear
of the nation in in the middle of last year said it is time now for blacks to to come
to training camps in the bush to learn to fight whites in a civil war. There are many
people who are talking about this Alex. But again it happens in every African country
where the whites are basically pushed into a minority positions in Bobway you name it
why do you think you're going to be different because you're ready for it you've seen history
it's not that it's going to be different we're going to suffer very very badly but we happen
to be a group of people and there are many of us who are willing to stand for what's
right because it's not acceptable and to leave here and to immigrate to America or Australia
or New Zealand is not the solution for our children to be exposed to the same perversity
and pornography and abortion and drugs that is being implemented in all of the European
derived societies around the world Islamists is being brought in sure so I mean to be clear
you're basically living a very very Amish lifestyle very close to that uh Mennonite
just out there producing food for the rest of the country what what what percentage do
the white farmers produce still in South Africa I know previously it was a tiny minority
produced the majority you know there are only about 40,000 white farms of which 21,000 are
now for sale believe it or not I read the figures so there is a massive evaluation now
taking place well people are terrified but we the whites in South Africa produce I'm
I'm estimating but I'll estimate conservatively very very easily 70% of the food consumed in
this country and that's what's crazy in every country they kick you out and then it collapses
why doesn't why don't they have the Wakandan dream why why why doesn't that happen because
the notion of the goose that lays the golden egg is a fallacy in certain cultures we have
a tendency as white people around the world to say we see things this way so they should
too no it's a different culture different values different norms different more race
and there is a notion in Africa that it is better to have 100% of 10 in other words to
control everything than to have 10% of a million in other words to have more but to be sharing
unbelievable one out of four people listening to my voice right now could die from heart
disease this could be your last year and you don't even know it because you don't know
the early warning signs if you think you're safe because your cholesterol levels are normal
think again because studies show that 75% of heart attack patients also had normal cholesterol
levels let me introduce you to Strauss heart drops a world famous heart and brain formula
made in Canada it's time tested and will give you clinical results in 90 days or your money
back learn more at signs of heart disease dot com they are shipping free this month hear
that that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place
and what they don't steal will be destroyed this year resolve not to be the next victim
of a break in go to fake tv dot com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone
inside is watching tv even when your miles away security is a mindset and fake tv should
be part of your security solution be vigilant but not fearful fake tv dot com let's talk
to Victor in Florida Victor you're calling go ahead yes I Alex first I just want to mention
if people just go and try the products they will be ordering all the time I've ordered
several of the products over and over because it's amazing in particular silver bullet I
don't know as soon as I start to feel like I get a little stick you know maybe like a
little raffiness in my throat I drop some silver bullet and it like I'll still feel
a little stick but it won't last as long and I just ordered the body the alpha power and
the pollen block well let me just say something Victor it's people like you that then fund
the whole operation because a very small percentage of people buy products and a very small percentage
of them buy a lot of the products so thank you but when you mention the the silver bullet
it's got thousands of reviews a 98% review it is our highest reviewed product because
it is from the top lab in the country discounted high quality colloidal silver it's not a silver
bullet but the closest thing you're going to find to a silver bullet over a year in
the making produced by one of the top organic firms in the country that if you want proven
studies and documentation let me speak for hours just on the files I have here of what
this is proven to do the ingredients in this this is the ultimate immune system boost for
this time of year anytime of the year but immune wall is incredible and folks other
formulas that aren't even as good are seventy eighty dollars it's a great deal at thirty
nine immune wall beta-glucans olive leaf and so much more it is concentrated you need
to go read what is in here the mushroom blend of the most expensive highest quality mushrooms
that just incredibly accelerate a citrus peel blend I mean this is the next level it's now
available ladies and gentlemen immune wall I think it's beyond seasonal beta-glucan olive
leaf and more immune wall info or store.com info or slime.com or triple eight two five
three three one three nine I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest
quality info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum
of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and
health and detoxification in the body. Biome defense is an exclusive blend of fifty billion
live and active cultures from over twenty three different probiotic strains that are
known to support digestion and intestinal function. Our researchers are confident that
we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market. Secure
your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life.com today and get
started supporting your digestive system naturally. We've been testing this formula for years
but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage of it today
support your own health and support the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. We are on the march the empire is on the run
Alex Jones and the GCN radio network. There is a global corporate government that's free
market that pays zero taxes and his ultimate capitalist but in a crony fashion. Obama traveled
to Africa he traveled to South America just two years ago. Remember he gave the speeches
saying now now now now to graduate students. Communism is good for you but then capitalism
is good internationally. Now I don't do a good imitation but you're going to be communist
meaning you're a slave you can't have recognition your cars. They actually said that in Africa
in three different speeches but then we're going to be rich and fly around on jet airplanes
but it's for the environment and then you pay your money to us and then we're exempt.
Amazon's owner is worth a hundred and fifteen billion dollars last time I checked he makes
a billion dollars every three days profit. The company separate from him made 5.6 billion
last year and paid zero tax. Now these virtue signalers pay no tax just like Warren Buffett
basically pays none. Google pays almost none because they set it up but then they tell
you the middle class didn't pay enough and it's the same thing. Then they fund the communists
to take over because it'll be one communist king payment of the military and they just
pay off that person maybe a half a billion dollars every decade. A lot of these African
countries they buy them off a couple hundred million and they can exploit everything. As
long as the leaders get tribal and say kill the white man they can stay in power but what's
happening in a bunch of countries as soon as all the whites are dead it doesn't work
because there's I mean they celebrated in Zimbabwe when the last white farmer two years
ago got killed and now the leaders out finally because they're like there is no more white
man we fight where is it we want all this money everything's bankrupt. That is exactly
what happens but I don't want to see the Africaners leave I don't want to see the Southlanders
leave but most of them have already left you heard that half the farms of 40,000 are up
for sale. I don't blame them but I get also sticking to it because when you've been bullied
so much you have nowhere else to go. They have attacked me and I don't usually do this
on the show but I mean look look look what it's like now it's like they said you know
Rush Limbaugh said that they were trying to promote black quarterbacks over white quarterbacks
but that was true or not they tried to boycott him and remove him ten years ago. Now we've
moved on to Alex hugged me once and his hand went down a little far and then that's not
even true and then the news calls it sex assault and then there's bodybuilding on a computer
because we're trying to light a bodybuilding shoot and that becomes gay porn and that becomes
gay what was it called being groomed. I mean can you imagine can you imagine how ridiculous
but they don't care it's the headlines how ridiculous I look right there. The point is
is that is that this is out of control we're gonna go to our next guest who they're attacking
as well and I just thank the listeners in the audience and I'm that we're in the middle
of a 34 hour broadcast we're now I don't know five hours or so into it as it started when
David Knight kicked off I was saying that wrong like we're in hour number one we're
in hour number no no they're like no Alex add three to it David was on oh yeah that's
right we'll be live right through six o'clock tomorrow we're already live ten hours a day
I promise to expand we got the satellite up links all the TV stations trying to pick us
up I'm ready to announce that too I gotta go to our next guest here the guys that gave
me the new satellites satellite galaxy 16 it's on in fours.com forward slash show galaxy
16 at 99.0 W 24 hours a day in HD and that is galaxy 16 in geosynchronous orbit right
over the equator but straight over the earth so it's like this from the building right
there and that baby's right over and then we've got 14 over here we're at this other
one and that's gonna hit Europe and Africa so we're like over the US and then out over
here into Asia and blasting into Europe and then end up most of Africa and I mean it's
on folks we're in a fight here and like industry people go why do you want to be on in Africa
or why do you want to be on in Asia you don't get any orders from there any sponsorship
our sponsorships freedom there's no real voice of America anymore we've got to do it
people and so that's why we're under attack we're the real voice of America from basic
Americana good values free market we're fighting communism and we're under hellish attack but
again I take that as being over the target both my grandfathers from the Army Air Corps
and World War two both almost died wanted to crash landing and then my other grandfather
was out of North Africa bombing the Germans in Italy and he got a heat stroke and he'd
been over 20 missions already and volunteered for more you know catch 22 and then they put
another pilot and he was a pilot and the plane blew up over Sicily bombing German targets
and you always talked about how guilty he was that he had that heat stroke out working
and digging they're actually digging trenches for when the Germans were strafing him in North
Africa and he was out there all day in between missions because they'd have you fly a few
missions have a few days off he had heat stroke it was actually kind of stroke like the sun
in the eyes they said they called it heat stroke he was out for like a week when he
got up from it they also said they were drinking the fuel out of rockets that was that was not
enough liquor so the army was drinking rocket fuel that's a whole nother subject it was
probably the rocket fuel but drinking the rocket fuel while they were digging ditches
and he was the only one doing it that probably saved his life because the B-17 oh he's fine
liberators time that was B-17s after that the liberator they called it the flying coffin
because it blew up so easily because where they held the bombs his whole crew got killed
so the point is I'm I don't know how I went into this whole story but that's what our
forebears did this is 21st century war where they attack your family they attack your name
I mean I went up against Hillary Clinton we really took her down you took her down and
so I expected hit teams to come in here that's why I got guys you know on the roof with guns
and you know all the rest of it because they have sent some people over here but that's
not how they're doing it they're doing it with disinfo and all this stuff so I'm not
happy it's happening I'm sorry they're saying horrible things about the crew that it's true
because they know it's not getting to me so they're gonna start going after you I'm just
warning you and that's why we got any infiltrators or operatives in here now folks you gotta tell
me about it you gotta watch it because it'll try to set you up I mean this is 21st century
war we need your prayers we need your hope we thank you going back to my guest Simon
Roche we're on the 6th page of Southlander with the extermination the president announced
they're taking your land the defense minister announcing they're gonna kill you the number
two minister the communist announcing they're gonna kill you our media total media dead
silence on this that after the apartheid dream is over now the dream of Mandela Mandela like
when he says kill all the whites we're right back to where we were with Mandela bombing white schools
yeah we we're back we've kind of come full circle you know we're in a situation where the
the chickens have come home to roost and we've got to deal with realities of unemployment and
AIDS and massive corruption that with all due respect Alex you couldn't even begin to imagine
that's a a whole different story that would take hours to tell hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of billions being plundered all of the time incessantly and it just kind of pops up in the news
and then it goes away but you know our news are are perverts just like CNN and and BBC and others
are they are you know it's it's a defensible appellation to use they are perverts BBC covered
something this morning on their home page about one of Trump's the main article the lead article
one of Trump's ladies assistance whatever I don't know what her role was is leaving because she's
achieved what she wants to achieve in her words but then tried to make it into a scandal and yet
BBC will not cover that in one of the top 40 countries in the world the world with the largest
by far mineral reserves in the world namely South Africa the country that controls the
southern sea routes should the Suez Canal ever be closed down is now passing a motion
to confiscate all white owned property without compensation it's incredible we're out of time
we're out of time tell folks the website for radio not just TV viewers how they go donate for your
civil defense please donate at Freestarter it's an American organization a crowdfunding organization
owned by Charles Johnson it's Freestarter forward slash South Africa our own website
is and you can donate there too via PayPal is sake londers.org suidlanders.org all right thank
you brother we're out of time we'll talk to you soon incredible you predicted it all last year
it's happening infowarstore.com infowarstore.com we need to really raise massive funds to fight
these allegations or they'll be successful infowarstore.com 30 to 80 percent off store wide
right now it's a total war the second american revolution is global
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract L tryptophan lemon balm
leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and
achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with
the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power
of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take
on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life
dot com electrify your day with secret 12 it's like lightning in a bottle we all have days in
which we just can't seem to perform at the level we'd like to info wars life secret 12 is designed
to naturally energize your body and mind with two great tasting and super high quality forms of
vitamin b12 proper vitamin and nutrient intake is essential to keep your body functioning at
optimum levels the reality is it's hard to take in the proper amount of vitamins we need each day
with our modern diets secret 12 by info wars life is an easy way to naturally upgrade your vitamin b12
intake and support your body's natural systems it pairs two forms of vitamin b12 into one explosive
formula vitamin b12 supports healthy energy levels through red blood cell formation and
aiding in the body's natural processes but it also assists with many other functions of the body
electrify your mind and body and take your health to the next level experience the power of secret 12
at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com introducing floor life the new probiotic
line developed exclusively by info wars life after years of research on the human microbiome not all
probiotics are made the same floor life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses
the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect this is critical
because stomach acid kills most probiotics so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic
then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet floor life supports your body's core
where you need it most including digestion regularity immunity the gut lining and metabolism
did you know that over 80 percent of your immune system is located in your gut that's why increasing
gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic
for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration
program head to info wars life dot com to pick up your bottle of floor life probiotics today
that's info wars life dot com you know i've got some talking points here about caveman from info
wars life dot com but instead of going on those talking points let me just give you what i've
experienced personally from all the wives tales in every culture we know that the bones have the
essence we know chicken noodle soup it's great for people that are sick again in every culture
this has been reported because it works and there's no way to quantify how strong this is but the
amount of bone protein and the amount of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is
in this is incredible ladies and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your arteries
in your veins whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and gentlemen is the
strongest most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing find out for yourself
today at info wars store dot com what it could do for your family and again i want to thank you all
for your support you are funding the information war in 2018 god i hope trump's fountain is trying
us you're listening to the alex jones show i don't care that's lost the truth i didn't know we were
alive sometimes it's good to have an open mic we don't know it's alive i have nothing to hide
of the information war it's alex jones it hurts me so bad what trumps doing that i'm not holding
back to defend him i'm kind of shell shocked right now because it always takes me about
six seven hours of process some big betrayal and then i just connect to god and then it's all okay
and i'm ready to move forward and i don't think trumps betraying us but these clips are sickening
i only played a few of them first hour and i really should have been doing this whole show but
we're under so much attack you've got uh andrew torba of gab that google's called to be shut down
they're not just censoring you off google platforms they're censoring people saying oh this is hate
you'll have isp's block it you know that's in the news and then gab is just a true don't be evil
organization where there's liberal conservative uh you know pagans christians all on there and
and they're nice to us you know they have our stuff on there we're going to start posting some of
our videos the platform they're doing we're doing one mike adams is doing one i'm all about us having
our internet but they're going after our our our our credit card companies are going after our bank
companies they're making an example they think you're cowards and they think that if they can
destroy me or destroy trump and make us give in to them that they're going to win and all i know
is i can't give in to bullies it's just i'm not a pigheaded person i got beat up a lot when i was
you know in the fifth and sixth grade that i hit puberty right about the sixth grade and
a couple years later that changed and you know i'm not a vengeful person few of the guys that
beat me up a few years later you know a couple of them i put one guy was in a coma for two weeks
and i shouldn't have done and i was like 14 and you know slam just had the concrete a few times
after he tried to beat me up again he i remember his mom was so mad and everything else i'm like
he's on record starting to fight with me lady and and you know so all i know is i'm not going to
roll over and we're going to win we're winning but even if trump goes sideways we're not stopping so
andrew torba joins us uh right now with all the censorship he's under everybody else
look at this exclusive trump's facebook engagement declined by 45 percent following algorithm change
no they're you know that's breaking right now i'm i've talked to the president about this
last time like three i'm gonna leave it that they make a big deal about when i talk to him
stones talk to him i know for a fact uh a member of his club good friends with and chris ruddy
talks to him every time about this and the president just doesn't get he goes well i'm still on the
air i'm still they're not going to censor me yes sir they're censoring all the places we
magnify you he thinks the guy with the beard or whatever you know this new that ran the internet
stuff before is the reason he won because because kushner told him and i'm not against kushner but
the guy's the reason you want if you want to pick somebody his name's matt drudge he's not the guy
with the beard you know like an african or outfit but he's not from africa uh so public
wants big tech regulated that's a big axio story facebook keeps creepy secret files on
everybody we already knew that so let's let's let's go to andrew twarble keeping some of the
next hour i apologize i'm ranting we've got 30 to 80 off store why but that isn't enough to fund
us because a lot of that's lost leaders biggest sales ever info or store dot com during the 34
hour paul revere emergency broadcast that we were already doing because of this but now it's
totally an emergency we need you to donate you go to the uh support us link on info or store dot
com on the front page and the bottom thing is donate right there right over the right hand side
says info or his life health and wellness preparedness media gears specials and support us
and when you hit click support us so we can show people and then that goes down to donations
we need people to donate and by the way i've never done this where i actually call rich donors
that i know are out there oh it's happening today because we have to defend the first
amendment we have to get on the offense because i can't just let people say that we're wearing
nazi tennis shoes and that we hate jews and all these other lies and just made up crap we have
to go after this because again the daily mail wouldn't deny wouldn't deny paying money and that
is next level so um we're on it like donkey kong okay gab dot ai andrew twarble joins us andrew
what would you say about the point in life we are right now this is a crazy period
and the assault is just exponential well alex i've been at this for about two years now i used
to live and work with these companies in silicon valley i have many patriot friends that still work
inside of these companies and feed me and us information and i've been predicting this stuff
for about a year now it is only going to get worse they are going to continue to censor and
stop the free flow of information they are going to continue to prevent president trump from getting
his message out to the people you just pulled an article before uh facebook made an algorithm
change earlier this year and they claim that they want to connect you more with your friends and
family for your own well-being and this is the new narrative of silicon valley they're focused on
the well-being and the mental health of their user happiness goodness right apparently these smug
silicon valley elites know what's best for us normal average every day blue collar working
class people um it's really astonishing what's happening you know we see hillary clinton tweet
earlier this week that we should all care about how social media platforms play a part in our
democratic process and she actually makes a veiled threat here she says unless it's addressed it will
happen again and the midterms are in eight months we owe it to our democracy to get this right and
fast that's right fix fix the internet so people can't communicate beside they want free market
they've got to choose us they've got to choose the globalist they they've openly declared war
and made the decision and the corporations have done it as news core said three weeks ago
they're a big part of this their CEO said we met with all the tech heads we decided to censor the
web to make more money so the real reason the companies are doing is knock out all the real
communication have bots go out this is amazing absolutely and you know it's sickening this is
their new narrative just days after hillary tweeted this out you have these silicon valley
elites and these executives at facebook and twitter and google coming out with this shared
similar collective narrative of oh we're going to improve the experience to help with the well-being
of users on our platforms and it's your well-being to merge with the board give up your consciousness
you want hillary you want you want us and then they and then they magnify all the sjw kill the
president kill the white people crap it is crazy absolutely the double standards and the hypocrisy
of big tech are disgusting and of big media for that matter if you are speaking you know hate
speech towards whites or towards males or towards christians it's totally acceptable right that type
of hate speech is allowed across all of these platforms is allowed in our culture is allowed
in the media but the second that you are critical or the second that you have um any any kind of
opinion that goes against the status quo of mainstream progressivism your band your censored
your unperson from the internet we're seeing many youtubers including yourself getting these strikes
and these are really arbitrary processes they're just trying to build their case and say oh look
we gave him three chances it doesn't really matter you know eventually the comedy central
goes how american is three strikes well now censorship is american and then even bloomberg
reports now that they've removed the strikes and admit it's fake so there was such a backlash to me
they've backed off but here's the thing everybody else is still getting banned uh mike adams is
having his youtube band just said he came on yesterday uh dr course he's is all these gun
groups so we made a big deal our audience did so they backed off on us but they're not backing
off and other people that's absolutely right we have you you guys coming on and you're using
gab tv to stream and back up all of your videos over there um you know there are let's announce
that because we're gonna partner with you we're gonna partner with natural news everybody just
has to start doing we did our own platform matt drudge link to it we usually do our own videos
like a hundred thousand hundred thousand it had seven million views the two videos that they banned
last friday and it showed that we didn't say what they said we said real people died they weren't
crisis actors but he was on serotonin reuptake inhibitors and the police stood down and then
and then youtube had to remove the strikes because we were able to show it this stuff is insanity over
the past week i've seen videos and people bans uh videos removed they were factual real videos of
one of the students uh speaking in his own words it wasn't an opinion piece or any of this this nature
it was his own words it was him on camera saying these things and they they just scrubbed it they
completely removed it from the internet i've never seen anything like this and meanwhile
you have students who are also in the school that are pro 2a that are not being verified by twitter
that are not getting any media attention that are being silenced in other way and a three thousand
it's only four and exactly videos of students saying multiple shooters or they saw the police
stand down being banned and then they say jones's video was banned because it said no one died and
then we have the video and it's not that's what i mean the level of lying what is going on here
it's disgusting and people need to wake up your viewers need to wake up conservatives christians
libertarians nationalist populist uh anybody that is not far left to be frank we all need to
wait commonsense libertarians this is a war we have to fight on facebook google twitter everywhere
but we got to drive people to gab dot ai to info wars dot com to drudge report dot com and realize
this is the big fight it's now this is bigger than the election of 2016 that was just a beachhead
that made them cut accelerate their plan right absolutely and this war is only going to escalate
and until we start building something new and supporting alternatives uh it's not going to go
away and you know you can tell us when we come back google has said in the news they want him
shut down they lobby lying about him saying it needs to be shut down there's hate speech on there
so it's not just like it's their own platform they want to shut everything down that's anything to
be busted up i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or
books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean
i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store
dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and
adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and
iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your
personal products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the
globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support top scientists and researchers
agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat sick
and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters don't just sit there and take it fight
back with the all-new supercharged brain force plus and feel the rush without the crash brain force
plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics and now we've added
a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick
other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind it's the real deal
brain force plus secure your bottle right now at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
so
surprise surprise surprise left this one a band free speech like it everywhere else
and surprise surprise surprise tell you about it a second first this message from
a very important rock band to stop tyranny will so does he lie from the info wars dot com studios
it's alex jones and anthony kimi is coming up right in shotgun with us here in just a minute
we'll hear a little bit of this song because metal health would carry a man metal health would
drive you mad metal health what we all need it's better than being a little loveless weenie
oh
i'm insane the teacher says that i'm one big
That means power for humanity, not these globalist control freaks.
Free market will take us to the stars and we all know it.
Socialism will take us to hell.
Look at this latest story on Infowars.com and News Wars.com by Paul Joseph Watson.
You knew it.
Look at this guy.
He's a beta that wants to be an alpha, but then he wants to do it by shutting down the
level playing field.
Man who sent white powder Donald Trump Jr. is a far left gun advocate.
Facebook's page shows support for the resistance, or the real resistance to you, and numerous
other left-wing causes.
Unbelievable.
We'll be talking about that article in a moment.
Going back to gab.ai creator Andrew Torbo created just a few years ago.
He was in Silicon Valley, very successful programmer.
Google and others are calling for his banning.
Who is the worst out of Facebook, Twitter, Google, all the Apple moving to China?
Who is the worst of this combine?
I would say that Twitter is probably one of the worst.
We've had problems with Apple.
We've had problems with Google not allowing us to have apps on their app stores, which
by the way, that's a duopoly.
They control and own.
Oh yeah, $500,000 for not making a cake.
I'd make the cake.
It's free, but you let us have our damn apps.
You don't keep us from the market.
Make the app.
Sorry, go ahead.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Bake the cake.
Well, how about make the app?
Right?
Allow the app on the app store.
So here's the thing, Alex.
I think that these companies, they need some form of regulation.
The government needs to step in, and this is tough for me as a free market conservative,
right?
But that's where government comes in when it's free market, is to protect it.
And by the way, national polls, since you mentioned I'm interrupting, you're just
totally on target, Axios, which is, of course, Politico, since they're just credited as a
new name, public wants big tech regulated.
They are pissed.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
The public sentiment is shifting rapidly, and this is actually something that both
the left and the right agree on.
We are both, on both sides of the political aisle, fed up with big tech and with Silicon
Valley.
Now, it may be for different reasons, and we may have different ideas of how to solve
that problem.
But the honeymoon with big tech is over.
The honeymoon is over.
Right.
Absolutely.
Without a doubt.
Keep going.
Sorry.
So I think that regulation is coming, and the Trump administration needs to do something.
They need to do something before the 2020 campaign kicks off.
And actually, you mentioned Brad Pereskel, Trump's new campaign manager.
He is actually very red-pilled on this problem.
He's tweeted about it several times about the bias and the double standards of big
tech.
And he sees the data firsthand.
He better than anyone else knows what's happening and can see this happening right in the data
right in front of his face.
So we're hoping to get in touch with him to be able to work together and expose what's
going on and hopefully build a new platform for Trump supporters for the 2020 election
because, guess what, they're being no-platformed everywhere else.
And Trump's got such a magnetism, if he just stays true and doesn't become a gun-grabber,
will create the biggest website in the world.
Trump can have that.
And by the way, when I said, Brad, you know, Pascal shouldn't get all the credit, I'm just
saying they say he's why Trump won.
No drudge, the American people, all of us, okay?
It's not about going, oh wait, we get the credit.
It's about don't give credit where it ain't due because then we'll lose.
We need it.
It's all of us.
It's you being active.
I don't like this one person did it.
That's a load of horsemen are.
It isn't Trump.
It isn't drudge.
It isn't me.
It's all of us together.
And that's why all of you were so important to be active and not be passive and just think
somebody else is handling it.
But let's talk with a really smart guy, Andrew Torbov, cap.ai, with our next co-host about
what do we do then?
We know something's about to happen.
What do we do?
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
All right, Andrew Torba of GAB, one of the only big independent social media networks
that isn't censored.
It's libertarian.
They're breathing pagans, Christians, Muslims, agnostics, libertarian, you know, communists,
conservatives, liberals.
It's all there.
He's making some really great points and I'm ranting because I'm under total attack
and I can feel the energy of the enemy intensifying.
I can see it and it just has my will just rising to just uncontrolled levels.
This is the animating contest that Liberty Jefferson talked about.
I don't like the fact they're so evil and so bad but their commitment to destroy us
just absolutely sets my hair on fire.
I mean, I've just got chills all over right now.
I've got so much energy, it's unbelievable and I'm glad they're admitting how evil
they are.
They want censorship net wide.
So we're talking about solutions.
What does Trump do?
Now by the way, when Anthony Cooney is done, I'm going to come back and be on a bunch
for the next 30-something hours, we're doing a 34-hour broadcast, is Trump betraying the
Second Amendment?
And the answer is, I know in my gut and intellectually I've studied it.
No.
He has these free flow listen sessions where he says what they want to hear, he says what
others want to hear and he says, hey, you may not get that Dianne Feinstein but put
it in there and we'll see if it passes.
He's being magnanimous like, oh, let me hear what you want with the dreamers.
Maybe if they have been here 20 years and are not criminals, we'll have them and they
want total legalization even to felons and total chain migration and the end of the border
is completely in UN control and everything, he goes, whoa, they got nothing.
He showed them as unreasonable.
I'm not just defending Trump but you judge a tree by its fruits.
So far we've gotten all this great reasonable stuff and turned things back and they hate
him and were killing TPP and the better jobs, the better stock market.
But I got to tell you, even though I get his tactic, the Second Amendment, he shouldn't
do it.
You can get it with dreamers and other issues but not with this because you can't say, oh,
well, I want to get rid of the due process.
You know, when somebody's a killer, the due process was he was already adjudicated nuts.
It was on government drugs.
He can't buy guns.
Just like the shooter at the Texas church a few months ago, he'd been adjudicated in
a mental institution insane, escaped from it and the Air Force didn't put it at the
database.
So he talks for three, four hours in a meeting.
They take a few clips out of context but still, Dianne Feinstein, Rebiter Hansen rather
like the wicked witch of Satan, you know, and agreeing.
It's just, it's too much.
Anthony Cummings, and we'll go back to Mr. Torben and get his take on what does Trump
need to do.
Internet Bill of Rights, break up these companies, point out what's going on.
What do we do?
Build new platforms like compoundmedia.com because he had the number one show on Threshold
Radio for a while and because it was kind of libertarian, it wasn't liberal conservatives.
They really fear something that unifies and then the number one on XM and that made people
jealous so he's kicked off because he said these people killing cops and our people are
savages.
We don't care if they're water black, they are savages, shoot some random cop.
That's why I'm glad, rising like a Phoenix, he has compoundmedia that became an incubation,
you know, dish for all these other great hosts that go and then come back.
It doesn't matter.
It's that we're fighting and now the web itself they want to get rid of, the playing
field.
The cards are stacked, we have the will, we're still winning so they want to shut him down.
That's why it's great to have him hosting with us, letting us kind of have an emergency
take over here because I'm a sexual assaulter according to Newsweek and I, what was the
other thing?
And I'm grooming men for gay sex because we're in a big editing suite and we're trying to
lie to a guy for a bodybuilding shot.
This is all admitted in HR.
He said it.
Yeah, it says how to lie to a bodybuilder and there's images of men in this editing
bay in speedos and we're like, uh, that's all in HR.
But the point is, is that he says, I went in and saw gay porn and I think that's grooming
for gay sex four years ago.
And then a girl hugs me.
She says, which I didn't even do by the way, I'm in a room with a one, well, I'm like,
pants, I don't get on elevators alone alone.
No, seriously.
One woman getting on.
I don't do it.
And then that is sexually assaulting her.
I mean, that may fly in the fake news media.
It's not flying even in front of a Democrat jury.
My lawyers are good.
And they say, my God, we've never seen something that's ridiculous.
I mean, this is, but let me tell you something.
It doesn't matter.
People walk by and say, you lost your kids, even though I didn't.
People walk by and say, you know, all this stuff cause the leftist takes talking points.
They say that there's Mars basis I reported on that kids live on.
I never said that.
They just say it, but it doesn't matter.
That's the zombies.
Let me ask you Anthony Cumia.
We'll take over a couple of segments.
Appreciate you.
Let me board this operation.
I really appreciate you doing what you do at com.media.com.
What in Hades is going on here?
Because you know, you're now on air with a sexual assault her cause a girl says she hugged
me and I pat it a little far too down, Anthony.
Alex, uh, first of all, damn, I love your show.
I sit here before I get the, the honor of, uh, hosting that last hour and I'm laughing
my ass off.
I'm entertained.
I'm informed.
It's, it's fantastic.
Thanks.
Thanks so much, man.
Uh, you know, they, they have said things like this about me also sexual harassment.
There's, there's a, uh, great, uh, thing going around in some circles that I, uh, have sex
with transsexuals.
It's just an amazing, this is their tactic.
They pull these things out and I think because they see how well it works with the left,
with the degenerates in Hollywood, they actually see that people get, uh, prosecuted.
They get thrown out of their businesses and go, wow, let's just accuse the people we want
out of existence and we want exile to nowhere land.
And we'll say that they're as big a degenerates as we are.
And that's exactly what they're doing with you, with me and with a lot of you.
When they cannot debate and argue a point because they have nothing, they turn to sexual
harassment, you're this, you're a horrible father, we're wearing Nazi tennis shoes.
And I guess his, I guess his writers, that's what they are fiction writers.
They think if you say something really weird, it must be true because it's so weird.
Like, oh, let me put my Hitler shoes on.
I mean, what the hell?
From head to toe, there's Hitler shoes, the Hitler haircut, then everything in between
just to peg you as, which I love literally Hitler, members, members, it was a good looking
teapot, JC Penney, but it had a black top, which is normal, but it did a shadow and somebody
might see Hitler, so they banned the teapot.
It's getting to the point where I go to the onion, which has been a funny satirical news
site for years.
And I don't know if it's the, what's supposed to be the real news or a satire site.
It's insane.
Today, somebody said that in a park, they had to remove a gorilla from a cage that kids
have played on for 15 years because someone found it racially insensitive.
Well, I'm guessing whoever saw that and thought it was racially insensitive is the racist.
And kids love like, they love horses, they love donkeys, they love chickens, they love
pigs, they love gorillas, they love giraffes.
I mean, I've got in my daughter's nursery, my 10, 10 month old daughter, we've got little
paintings of Dr. Seuss and we've got a curious George painting.
We've got a painting of a giraffe.
Anthony, you just, oh my God, that's why it's supremacist.
We've got curious.
They've gotten, yeah.
Yeah, I've never seen people that are more racist than the left.
That's their whole gimmick.
It's like saying, it's like saying info wars is behind you and there's an, oh, Anthony
Cumea put an image of someone's anus on TV subliminally.
It's that delusional like, Anthony, why do you have that image of a man's?
That's gay.
Why are you, Anthony, why are you grooming me for gay sex?
There's an anus clearly right there.
No, I'm, I'm gonna sue you.
I'm gonna sue you.
Why did you put a man's rectum in front of me?
Why are you trying to, are you trying to have sex with me?
The person that sees that has the problem.
The person that actually came up with it is the lunatic.
Exactly.
What are those ink blots?
What are those called?
Oh, a Rorschach test.
Rorschach.
It's like crazy.
Like, like, like, what do you see?
Well, I see info wars in the continents.
No, you see a man's butt.
Hey, there's a gorilla at the zoo.
Oh my God, you're putting black people down.
It's racially insensitive.
I, I, and, and, and I'm so happy that that, those layers are being peeled off and they're
being exposed for the mental patients that they are.
I tell you though, they're teaching people that are like failures or they'll even have
jobs and they just, they decide to go with this and it ruins their lives, but they believe
going SJW is like the way.
And then they just walk around and saying, we're going to come back and get solutions
from Andrew Torba of gab.ai who they're trying to censor about what does Trump need to do?
And I want to ask you that, that I'm going to punch out here and let you take over Anthony
Cumi on fire as usual.
We'll be right back.
We've got 30 to 80% off.
We've never had 8% off.
A lot of these are lost leaders, like everything 80% is, is like stuff that we haven't sold.
Great t-shirts, great books, great films that that's, we're losing money on those.
But so you need to go make donations, buy the stuff at full price, but most of it's discounted.
It's the operation, Paul Revere, infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com or AAA-253-339.
Literally don't let George Soros and Hillary Clinton's lawyer that's suing me for, well,
he didn't say it.
As the media takes it, it says I sexually assaulted a woman.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all natural, earth-friendly, pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk, get a 12, 36 or 48 months to plot, or get items individually and still save
big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and
natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned
real soaps that are triple concentrated, soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life.
NASA PAC technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon.
Or warm and served, life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon, ships
free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Introducing Cell Force by Infowars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much
like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing
reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Infowars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Infowars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory health
and normal breathing.
This is pollen block.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experienced less seasonal distress symptoms like runny nose, itchy watery eyes,
and excessive mucus production.
They began studying the effects in their public trials.
Now we are introducing the fruit of the research of fast-acting chewable tablets, just two tablets
at the first sign of seasonal distress, and fast-acting pollen block starts working in
about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress.
Enjoy the air you breathe naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at
infowarslife.com or by calling toll 3-888-253-3139.
defense of human liberty you're listening to the alex jones rising up out
of play this whole song because we're almost at the final stands here where I totally win
as everybody knows another cheesy line from what is it pat benatar the invincible winner
haha we can all smell it we all know it all of your winners as well andrew torbogab dot
a i under globalist attack massive independent social network and of course and they kill
me a compound media dot com formerly a top he me I remember back here in like 1520 years
ago like you know the ansy kumia show was like number one in the morning all over the
country they got so mad at it he made a fart joke they banned him as they put him on xm
became number one kicked him off there because he wasn't the communist he wasn't an sjw
he's a libertarian so let me ask you both this question going back to andrew torbogab
what does the president need to do because I know we can get any messages I mean we got
people in the white house he is listening like you said his new guy who was the head
of his internet operation Brad Pascal you're saying it is more red pilled and gets this
is the whole fight it's already happening for 2018 2020 so we kind of got a twin problem
now what do you make of the second amendment comments versus also the internet what does
the president need to do sure so I think he needs to take immediate and swift action he
needs to take this seriously and we all as his supporters need to take this seriously
as well when you think about it Alex we're up against unlimited resources both human
and capital total and complete control the internet total and complete control of the
media total and complete control of our culture and entertainment and yet the elite fear us
and they do everything in their power to silence us why well it's because what we have is more
powerful than all of those things combined it's ideas it's passion it's grit it's authentic
community it's a sense of urgency you know these are the things that it empower us against
the globalist and against the elites to get the truth out there and I think in order for
us to succeed in order for us to defend the the rights and the liberties that we all love
including the freedom of speech including the second amendment we need to stand up and
fight back we need to get loud and we need to get the president's attention to take
action on this I agree and it was the great French philosopher that said that no army
can stop a idea whose time has come if you look at Brad Parscale I was pronouncing it
wrong I'm teleprompter free you know if he gets that it's great but this is not a 2020
issue this is happening this is happening right now and so I mean I agree we need to
do something now they're moving against us because they know they're trying to dominate
us and I want to be online that's that's more than 80% of the battle but we should all do
more demonstrations we should more shoot more things outside we should talk to more people
we should get more people involved the answer is more people speaking out with whatever
their information is whatever their worldview is whatever their truth is from their perspective
and not cookie cutter that's what's going to win Anthony Coombs yeah when you when
you see people demonstrating on the left like we saw last week where those kids are demonstrating
against the Second Amendment and they're out there do you see people trying to silence
them do you see protesters inciting violence against them they're able to get up there
speak and say what they want to say and I have no problem with that go ahead I never
want to infringe on anybody's right to free speech but the second a conservative a libertarian
someone with a different viewpoint gets up and tries to talk it's boy have to be met
with bottles fire of flags of clubs being hit over the head they do not want us to even
speak for us to even be heard they call it hate speech it has no place in the First Amendment
so where does it go Anthony coming if we give in we know in every case in history if we
give into this I want to ask Mr. Torber that as well where does it end if we give in we
know where it ends it's a domino we've got to hold the line this is it if you don't want
to be Venezuela or North Korea folks this is it Anthony absolutely well you know people
like Andrew that are that are really gearing up and firing up a different platform for
us because Twitter is ridiculous I don't know who's delusional enough to think this
isn't an agenda driven platform you have people like Sarah Silverman who is just apparently
people thought she was funny years ago she's up there now she could say whatever she wants
in whatever language she wants against somebody that she disagrees with the second you turn
and criticize her using the same language she used mind you you're thrown off of the
platform it is so by the way bringing that up to you and then Torba it's famous with
Roger Stone he was criticizing people that were saying he's a piece of crap he's a communist
he needs to die he just said you're a screwball screw you to Oberman and and one other lady
he got banned and his lawyers even met when they admitted well we're a leftist group we're
a minority group so we're allowed to say those mean things you're a white male you're not
I was talking to a lawyer today high level and he was coming up this other case and he
said well they're claiming they're heterosexual and you discriminate against that that's impossible
because that's a dominant group and I was disagreeing with this high level lawyer even
though their claims BS I was going what a heterosexual can never I mean man I'm to do
this is this is like cuckoo land we've we've entered an amazing world a bizarro world where
you can't criticize or critique a movie because of the subject matter like we saw with Black
Panther there's been zero media as far as what's going on with white farmers being
being having their land taken away in South Africa because they are looked at as privileged
and as people that are incapable of being prejudiced against or or and by the way they
live in cobra infested lion infested areas and produce 7% of the food only 40,000 farms
and half are closing up and South Africa watch in three years South Africa will be starving
we will have all the leftist sending food there but everybody right now is looking like good
they're getting what they deserve and this is amazing because you know they're they're
the privileged class and they're being oppressed right now doesn't matter what color you are
race religion if you're being oppressed you're being oppressed that's it and you know these
people are not you're not going to hear about this Anthony coming up taking over on the
other side we're down on what six hours into the global transmission this can continue
emergency free speech transmission we had to set up for weeks I had no idea that we'd
be under total attack what actually happened we're finishing with Amber Andrew Torbath
special ride the shotgun and co hosting gab dot a i closing comments sir yeah I think where
this ends up is they want us dead or in jail to be very blunt this is a global information
war and if we don't stand up and fight back they're going to win we need to stand up for
our freedom of expression for our individual liberty for the free flow of information these
are the things that made this country great and that is how we're going to make the country
great again so I think that you know what we need to do is continue to build new platforms
continue to support new platforms like gab and like others we can't put all of our eggs
in one basket why are we continuing to support no I agree everyone who has a facebook twitter
or youtube account should go to gab that I yeah right now they should all get a profile
all be there and then use facebook to push to gab but say this for years and everybody
should go to compound media dot com and sign up there and pick a show you want to subscribe
to because this is a war and I'm telling you it's not about me and some damn money I got
a family ranch of a whole nine yards I've spent my own money on this I'm doing this
because we got a there are a lot to cuss on everywhere else but I can't tell you they
are a bunch of effing you know what I'm gonna stop right there we're gonna come back Anthony
Cummy is taking over straight ahead it's up to you America the answer to being in control
of your own health care is freedom from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients
that come together to share in each other's medical expenses individual share amounts
begin at $107 a month and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs
holistic treatment may be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount programs available
for dental vision and pharmacy go to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot
org it's a no brainer a big burky water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN call or click 187799 burky or big
burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y you know I've got some talking points here
about caveman from info wars life dot com but instead of going on those talking points
let me just give you what I've experienced personally from all the wives tales in every
culture we know that the bones have the essence we know chicken noodle soup is great for people
that are sick again in every culture this has been reported because it works and there's
no way to quantify how strong this is but the amount of bone protein and the amount
of marrow and the amount of concentrated life force that is in this is incredible ladies
and gentlemen whether it's for your joints whether it's for your arteries and your veins
whether it's for your brain whether it's for energy this ladies and gentlemen is the strongest
most concentrated bone broth formula out there and it's amazing find out for yourself today
at info wars store dot com what I could do for your family and again I want to thank
you all for your support you are funding the information war in 2018 support good oral
health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a
revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful
clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor
pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients
used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride our super blue line
is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that
have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash
and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients xylitol nano
silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products refresh
your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info war store dot com that's info
war store dot com I'm so excited the new product info wars life dot com in a glass bottle two
month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red bill this is
a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy does it
stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people
a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae working
with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America hundred twenty
capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglinone to it which is the precursor
to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands
it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store dot com and your purchase fuzz
the operation you're listening to the alex jones show
I grew up not liking hype not liking people bragging about stuff so we get up here we
tell you this is the epic fight for free speech the draconian internet takeover is here the
solid war against the second amendment everything it is on the it was almost like a death rattle
or kind of a death battle kind of you gotten stabbed and you kind of fight back hard for
a minute that's what I see trump as is like a breath of air you're been caught in a rip
current I've been caught in a really bad one but one time I got caught in one about eight
or two yards down the Texas coast and hit a river a stream coming out and that kind
of ended it so I was able to get up and I'm not the fighter out of dying I remember it
had been a big storm water was flowing out shouldn't have been swimming I was like 12
that sucked under but I was already a really great swimmer and I relaxed came back up didn't
panic that sucked on a little bit more but only got stuck there for like 10 seconds but
you can panic doing that pop back up another five seconds got over that sucked down you
know half a mile or whatever came back out and that's what this is like ladies and gentlemen
so we can't panic we've been sucked under we kind of came back up with trump for a minute
back under again and we just chill out relax and kind of just kind of we're going to get
back to the surface those currents go up and down but they're all over the news saying
deep platform us ban us from the Internet when you ban us from the Internet it sets the
precedent and three weeks ago the Wall Street Journal said news core that's Fox met with
the big Democrats and Google and Facebook and decided to censor and they said we'll
use info wars is the beginning God we're going to like make a lot of money then Marie
Le Pen criminally charged for anti ISIS tweets that's the day news wars.com China just banned
the letter in from the Internet and when he the poo again as they keep showing the dictator
is that he's already addicted to the Communist Party they're making him permanent and then
Trump take guns first go through the process and I get him an open talk like because they
go surge due process the guy already had due process he was going to kill people he was
mentally ill he was on drugs the gun should already been taken they stood down Trump's
like well if due process got messed up he says going to kill people take it I get an
emergency situation somebody says I'm going to kill people there's no judge there's no
jury witness says it cops grab you Trump just is in there talking for hours and he says
oh yeah do this and hey put in the bill what you want let's work something out he did that
on DACA and they they they brought an unreasonable thing back and fell apart that's what he's
doing I think but still you want to drive your base away Trump I think is making a big
mistake people are going crazy Anthony Cummings of compound media dot com what do you think
about this absolutely I was tweeting about this last night and unfortunately yes tweeting
I wish I could get to everybody through a place like gab but until we really get a lot
of people on on both we got to be on all of you still got to be on both but like you said
drive them toward the alternative to Twitter but I was on the last night talking about
this and a lot of people worry that Donald Trump is going against what he said about
the Second Amendment during his campaign and I said have you read R to the deal the R to
the deal this is how he bargains now I agree with you 100% it's a very risky move to alienate
that base that put you in office but we all have to remember he's done this before this
is how he does it he becomes a sympathetic person to the opposition they're like oh look
he's wants to work with us for me and I can't believe fine-standing them don't get it they
believe the the left the Democrats and unfortunately a lot of his supporters believe what he's saying
and take it at face value this is how he negotiates he gives them what they want and then when
they pour 10 times more on top and it gets shot down he goes well I tried to make the
kids safe and he says that exactly he knows it's I know he's doing that so how do I respond
to my listeners at a rate of tear my head off when I say that because I'm never gonna
steer people wrong I may be wrong but I'm telling you really what I believe and I can't
think I agree with you this is what he does over and over did we get DACA no because it
was no so I mean did they get no or are they trying to kill him are they trying to kill
me yeah they know yeah he was talking about letting twice as many people in or to stay
then then they wanted and everybody lost their minds what where you ran on on a campaign
of building the wall because he tricked them to trick them to be arrogant and say no borders
world government f you you're a Nazi like everybody's legalized f you Nazi he tricked
them exactly I based on his and this isn't just like you said this before it's not just
being always a trump head he's he did it but just backs trump at every turn no I'm basing
it off of what I've already seen him do this is how he operates it's an amazing negotiation
playing them like a Strativarius absolutely and if it turns out to be wrong he'll pay
for it but like it is a risky move but in this situation nothing's gonna be easy you
have the media and the left at the entertainment it is a it is a master master it's a master
move yeah you have all those people and organizations against you you have to take some risky moves
to win in these situations it's called upon he's he's he knows they want he knows fine
sign bills a total assault weapons all semi-autos man so he goes absolutely I'm not saying you're
gonna get it let's go get the clip right I've heard laughing I'm not saying you're gonna
get it but you put it in and then the Republicans are all shaking their heads they've got the
majority it isn't gonna happen that way it's so clear what he's doing cuz I read art of
the deal I had read like two years ago I finally thought this guy's about to win I better read
this book and then I got now you see Trump is following a total formula yeah it's it's
how he operates and the Republicans sat there stone-faced because they're politicians they
never operated like this he's a businessman who's negotiated and made deals his entire
career and that's what he's doing right now right in front of your face and let's be clear
they go always only worth 10 billion others worth 100 billion he didn't do it there's
some combine of some global group he did it always has his own that's why they fear him
that we have that clip of Einstein looking like a witch like when he says it here it
is ladies and gentlemen add that to this bill that would be great and if you could add what
you have also and I think you can into the bill yeah so are you ready can you do that
Joe can you do that back can you add some of the things you're not going to agree just
the Wizard of Oz I mean well no I'll help but can you add what and what Diane have can
we add them in and I know you can add what John I have another domestic violence but
it's very narrow and it's about dating partners and number of states have just you can add
domestic violence paragraphs pages into this bill I'm all for it he's all for it go ahead
we have listened to his language right there added in I'm all for it now those he's all
for gun control he's all but no he's all for adding it in just add it in go ahead notice
he says it may not pass it's taking the taking the piss out of him he knows politicians are
the greediest people you'll ever encounter so you tell him exactly you tell him you're
winning they'll tell you who they really are yes and they'll pile more things on any bill
and it will lose and he looks like the good guy it's so obvious and it's brilliant he's
done it before and not and he's not he's not let us down yet like he's told me personally
I will not let you down but did you see Feinstein still doesn't get it she can't even get the
nomination of her own party yes my pretty you will get all the legislation I'll get
you and your little dog too you know are you gonna be starring in the news wasn't a boss
actually be making it it's it's ridiculous I would look I'm I'm nervous because it is
a big risk and I don't want people that are disillusioned because he's working this tactic
to get too nervous and back away from supporting him but this is what he does have faith in
the guy for for during the campaign and during his presidency hasn't let us down yet he hasn't
let us down yet and but I mean let me tell you know he's not infallible way better than
Hillary we're gonna see what happens we're gonna come back right Anthony I've been taken
over here what you don't mind you like me so I love it Alex what are you gonna hit when
we come back I want to hit about the technology that's coming in and we're putting surveillance
in our own homes and they're going to big corporation exactly the NSA and the issue
it's Apple and Google and all these other pieces of crap who are already like kissing
the communist Chinese I mean if you want to know how authoritarian the left is they love
communist China that kills voters crushes you name it for no reason we'll be back nourish
a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help
the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic
fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps
you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's
cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139 please
listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot
of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one
when you choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10% off on your order at info warshore
dot com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're
giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for
years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month just
go to info warshore dot com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know I coined the term 360 win
and with the new auto ship feature info wars life dot com this is a sure win 10% off on
auto ship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above $50 and
all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship info wars life
is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine we have found extraordinary new natural way
to help alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory health and normal breathing this is pollen blood
in the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs from
specific farms experience less seasonal distress symptoms like running nose itchy watery eyes
and excessive mucus production they began studying the effects in public trials in their public
trials now we are introducing the fruit of the research a fast-acting chewable tablet
just two two tablets at the first sign of seasonal distress and fast-acting pollen block starts
working in about 15 minutes to help alleviate seasonal distress enjoy the air you breathe
naturally with fast-acting pollen block available now at info wars life dot com by calling till
three triple eight two five three three one three nine vitamin mineral fusion visit info
wars life dot com to secure your chemist we have worked for years with our chemist and
scientist to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi-vitamin formula available
vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply
of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history
of info wars life we brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super
male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing
process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi-vitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are
either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means
it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's
info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
you're listening to the alex jones show good old george straight if you leave me i won't
miss you if you leave me i won't miss you by the way george straight's a listener but
he won't come on i don't i don't i don't blame him look at what amazing guy from central
texas more one time i got invited to this birthday party for another musician and they
go yeah he's in the holes playing tonight you ought to hang out george might make it
was in between san Antonio and austin i said at about four hours i said i'm gonna go ten
minutes after i pulled out of there george straight pulled up and played for an hour
in a little honky tonk out on you know some little road in texas that's cool it was it
was a jimmy vaughn party or something i'm not name dropping i'm that's the really cool
stuff right there but anthony kumi is here just briefly i'm not bitching i'm not complaining
but i asked for this they're trying to shut us down everywhere they're saying in newsweek
i assaulted a woman sexually when the eoc complaint says she hugged me and my hand went down
too low and that's not even true sexual assault is not a woman hugging you uh they say me
looking at pictures of bodybuilders for lighting an ad for a video we shot right in the studio
is grooming somebody for gay sex newsweek doesn't show that they just say jones groomed people
for gay sex well nothing against gay sex but i ain't doing it so anthony kumi is right
in shotgun here normally right on show all i'm saying is we got 30 to 80 off all products
at info or store dot com and a lot of those are lost leaders we've got a donate page i
never promoted info wars dot com four slash show now has it info wars dot com you can
also go to info or store dot com there is a link there on the site for support us right
up there on the corner and if you click on that then the bottom link is a donation straight
up donations are great because then you know we sell some bottle of supplements for 30
bucks it's costing us you know 15 because we don't put crap in these that's not a lot
of money with and look i'm not bitching but it's a war it's a fight you want to fight
you want to win this is it we need people to go to info wars store dot com and buy the
products and and to sign up for auto ship get an additional 10% off even on stuff 80%
off then it's a major loss they were losing 30 40% at that we need you to support those
local mnf affiliates we need you to you know support everything because this is the fight
ladies and gentlemen this is the real deal and we've got Owen shroyer come up with the
war room i'll be back tonight right through tomorrow with david night and a bunch of special
gas but we got gerald salenta we got paul watson we got we've got all these folks this is the
fight for people that just want to have a free market level playing field and aren't bullies
even though cnn wants to be banned off google youtube my listeners are like well let's file
complaints on cnn you know when they're bullying some woman in their house in florida since
she's a russian agent for no reason here's the deal they're not going to do it anyways
plus we just don't do that we just adapt we improvise we overcome but i the night trump
won i was like leaned over and roger stone goes right here in the studio he goes what's
wrong i said this is the beach and i wanted this but now they're gonna fight 10 times
harder god they're gonna come after all of us like i'll just celebrate celebrate no this
is it we owe it to our families do the right thing so i want to thank the listeners i want
to commend the listeners but i want to tell you i never and it's not that i'm an arrogant
man it's not that i'm a proud man it's just that i want to do things myself i've never
taken alone for this operation i'm a type of guy that always since even in high school
i bought my first used car when i was 16 with my own money then later my dad bought me a
new truck is i got a piece of crap or a new truck and but but i love that car i bought
myself i built all this because of your support because of you you built in fours you are
in fours but i'm going to get on the phone today i'm going to call some of the folks
that have offered a lot of money and i'm going to just say because i never there's no strings
attached anyways but i'm going to say listen this is about all of us i need a lot of money
and by the way i don't just need that half a million or that 50 000 you offered i need
you to i need you to understand unless you want to evacuate to us i need everything i
need everything you can give us you can you come and see what we're doing with the money
i want to get aggressive i can do some project veritas stuff nobody's seen i can i can break
them with what they did with this hillary lawyer but i need major firepower and i got
an army an army of licensed former military people ready as private investigators and
others and our other forces who are ready to go but they'll do it for free just like
the groups who've got bustin pedophile rings right now they just got to have the funding
for the basic operations and we've busted over 30 pedophiles killing children that were
being held as slaves that's going to come out very very soon i funded a group of law
enforcement just for the basic funding that's going to come out that that's why they're
pissed at me is because we're really putting money where our mouth is and so um that's
what it's all about i'm going to let Anthony comey take over here in the last five minutes
i appreciate it and let me jump in info or store dot com in force live dot com triple
a two five three three one three nine just make the donations whatever you do spread
the link support the local affiliates uh but we are on the field against the main enemy
as you're gladiator in this fight and i never thought i'd be in this position that's why
i'm kendred spirit with anthony comey who's been censored and attacked because he wouldn't
be anti-american when he had the number one show on xm the number one show in terrestrial
that's why he's a rockstar to me because he didn't sell out and everybody else in milo
i don't agree with all this politics but he got destroyed as he wouldn't sell out those
are my heroes so let's go to my hero anthony comey and for the last four minutes thank
you anthony thank you alex unbelievable it's uh it's happening it's right out there in
the open to this isn't some covert thing that the left is trying to pull it's right there
in the open people are absolutely being censored and and they are trying to eliminate people
from having a voice and we see it every day uh and we don't alex is right we don't play
by those those tactics we don't try to shut them down i feel the more they actually talk
uh the more rope you're going to come on the show and they won't do it all the time all
the time and they just will not come on because they never have anything they they have the
ability to call you every type of ist or fobe they have the ability to make false allegations
about sexuality and and uh domestic violence and they but they will not come on and actually
are you a point as far as the gun issue goes i have never in my life seen a group of people
so ignorant about the actual thing they are trying to take away the the the laws the rights
the mechanics of a gun the the the laws to get certain weapons in this country i've never
seen a group of people it's completely ignorant about what they're trying to keep from people
and that's uh but that's the left they they'll call you a gun nut they'll call you you have
the blood of children on your hands yeah like all that stuff instead of just having a logical
reasonable debate back and forth i can't get a volley on social media to go past two exchanges
before it they don't have enough honor an honorable man or woman wants to be real in
debate they because their followers and this society has been so good the west has been
so rich it's created a bunch of beta followers who want to then just shut down debate so
they can claim they get the trophy but never wanted that's that and that's what we were
saying years ago the first articles we read that said can you believe this they're giving
kids participation trophies can you believe this they're not keeping score in the sports
in schools anymore because some people get hurt they're not having valentine's day you
can't have a father daughter dance anymore because some people it it disappointment is
part of life unfair times i've had my ass handed to me when i became a man right that's
that's it you have to know what it's like valentine's day as a kid when when some kids
are getting cards and other kids aren't that's part of what you'll experience in life you're
supposed to learn about how to deal with people in a society you're exactly but you've got
to know what's the song you got to know how to lose it's it's uh it's that erasmus song
from the late 70s you've got to know how to lose and know how to win yeah and and that's
absolutely true and and you're taking that away from kids who at this point have no idea
of how to face-to-face actually talk to someone anyway because of social media so you're taking
away when they are in school and they are uh together in a group you're taking away
all types of education that they would get on how to deal with people you're teaching
them as long as you're in a leftist globalist cult and follow that will let you spread your
news and feel important but you're a slave it's not real anthony cumming at compound
media dot com amazing i want to get you on as a guest in the near future not just in
the fourth hour i appreciate you great lineup of hosts at compound media dot com everybody
should go there and check it out everybody should donate info or store dot com or buy
the products it does as well but they're so discount doesn't we need to flood our operation
with money or we're going to be destroyed and be defeated it's up to you if you're going
to save us help us listeners you're our only hope princess leo begs i'll be one kinobe
help me i'll be one kinobe general kinobe you're only hope you're only hope and i know you'll
come through i love you it's the animating contest of liberty war room coming up let's
go out to break with deos rendition uh of dream on here it is thank you anthony
if you are receiving house transmission you are the resistance live from the info wars
dot com studios it's alex jones every time that i look in the mirror all these lines
in my face get clearer the past is gone the past is gone i don't know if i'll get to the
part where he explains to know how to win you gotta lose dust to dawn isn't that the
way everybody's got their tools in life we'll be back stay with us 34 out maximize your
potential and take your body back with super male vitality we're breaking the conditioning
and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality our ultimate non-gmo formula
is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world and
then concentrated for maximum potency super male vitality was developed to activate your
body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals info wars life wants to
bring you the highest quality products our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level boost your vitality and energize
your life take control of your body grab a bottle of super male vitality today at info
wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com over a year in the making produced by one
of the top organic firms in the country that if you want proven studies and documentation
i'm going to speak for hours on the files i have here of what this is proven to do the
ingredients in this this is the ultimate immune system boost for this time of year anytime
of the year but immune wall is incredible and folks other formulas that aren't even
as good are seventy eighty dollars it's a great deal at thirty nine immune wall beta
glucans olive leaf and so much more it is concentrated you need to go read what is in
here the mushroom blend of the most expensive highest quality mushrooms that just incredibly
accelerate a citrus peel blend i mean this is the next level it's now available ladies
and gentlemen immune wall i think it's beyond season beta glucan olive leaf and more immune
wall info wars store dot com info wars life dot com or triple eight two five three three
one three nine you're listening to the alex jones show
