From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, US diplomats, British diplomats, EU diplomats, and Russian diplomats all agree.
Relations with Russia are now worse than they were during major periods of the Cold War.
And you have a former Russian spy, KGB Colonel, who's lived for over a decade in the UK. He and his daughter, the Screepalls, get nerve-gassed.
Coming out of a store, they're found on a bench. There's no evidence it's the Russians, and I'm not defending the Russians, but there's no motive.
Why would they do this? And then England says, well, we think it's you, and Trump says we think it's you.
And so we're going to announce all these big sanctions.
That is Trump going along with the globalist narrative, and I don't think it'll make him stop saying he's a Russian agent with no proof.
Here's the problem, and Dr. Pachennick and others talked about it a year and a half ago, and I know nothing against Jared Kushner.
I'm not involved in the inner fighting of the White House. I've been sucked into that. I'm not going to be.
I kind of defended Bannon's camp when it turned out he was one of the worst, just because I was trying to be loyal to who the media told us was the libertarian in there, and it wasn't true.
But Kushner is on record getting loans from the Communist Chinese, which you can do all day long, but then you can't be in the administration.
And so the only real leverage, and I've got the sources. I've known about this for a year and a half. We've talked about it.
He used Jared Kushner and him trying to prop up his Manhattan real estate at 666. You can't make that up.
So that's it. And the word is that that's the leverage they've got over Trump.
And I think that there's not real evidence of corruption by Kushner because he was getting some of these loans before they got into office.
But now that it's ongoing, it could bring down the whole operation.
You got 25 House Dems demanding Kushner's firing. That was yesterday.
So he could still have Kushner around. Kushner could still be an envoy or something, but unofficially, but it's just, it's a real soft spot that they've actually got a point on.
So nothing else is real.
Trump has fired all the lobbyists. He's lost hundreds of millions of dollars running and spent his own money and been persecuted and done a great job.
But he is very loyal to family and Kushner reportedly does help a lot and get a lot of stuff done.
He's a very smooth guy reportedly behind the scenes. So there you go.
That said, ladies and gentlemen, Drudge is reporting that Chief of Staff Kelly next on the chopping block.
Body Crown Prince, Iran leader, like Hitler. And then of course the big Russian news that Trump has announced these massive new sanctions and it's 10 times anything.
I've looked at the numbers Obama ever even talked about doing and CNN goes, Trump administration finally announces Russian sanctions.
We're going to go over all of those. It's unbelievable.
Let's look at Mueller.
Mueller witness is convicted pedophile with shadowy past.
Oh, you hurt the pedophiles feelings. Maybe you should be sued.
That's how it works now.
But that's a Sacramento be, you see, if we looked at the records and said it, we'd be sued.
But Mueller witness is convicted pedophile with shadowy passes Sacramento be reports.
And that's the type of folks that they're getting to testify that are totally compromised.
And they've again found no Russian collusion. They found process stuff like 10 years ago, you may not have paid your taxes exactly, right?
You're facing 300 years, Manafort.
But if you roll over and plead guilty like you're assistant, no prison time.
Manafort's like, I didn't do anything.
So this is a mesh and then we've got other even huge or news. They found election fraud.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by info wars life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
It's filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by info wars life.
Head to info wars life dot com and secure your bottle now. That's info wars life dot com.
We are back live broadcasting worldwide. We just kicked off this Thursday, the 15th day of March, 2018.
The Ides of March, the date on which Julius Caesar was killed in the Roman Senate.
Very unlucky day. They say for nobility and kings and presidents and prime ministers.
Showhead has been said historically that the omen tends to turn trues. We'll see what this day bodes.
Let me just read a couple headlines here because I can't even figure out where I want to start.
Leading historian Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something and he breaks down all the open announcements.
That video, they are ending free speech, which means they're basically ending our chance to be politically heard and to basically pick it and to be involved in culture and society.
And that's what I keep telling everybody. And only drudge report dot com the last month figured out that their attempt to ban us off the internet and sewage is to set the precedent because the new CEO of news corps said so in the Wall Street Journal.
They said we would be used as the case point. And now in a month, five lawsuits to add into the other seven and the university suing us.
Georgetown, Clinton lawyers suing us. All the calls to take our sponsors to ban us. And then Fox News gets the same suit.
Now, yesterday, saying you can't investigate Seth Rich's murder period. Just don't talk about it.
And it says in the suit, you hurt people talking about saying maybe he was murdered for governmental purposes when they don't know who murdered him.
And it's wide open. There's a lot of evidence that it was governmental and then there is evidence pointing towards that he is a good suspect in being one of the leakers.
Like the Pentagon Papers and Daniel Ellsberg. So in this climate, the New York Times would have been sued out of existence for the Pentagon Papers.
That's what we've reached here. And top historians, top analysts say that I'm right. Well, you don't have to believe that I'm right.
They're admitting the plan to shut down free speech. It's here. This is not rhetoric about, oh, look, look what's happening to me. I'll be honest with you.
If things weren't this bad, I would be doing a radio show every day and not going full steam ahead trying to launch a resistance movement to the globalist and risking my life and going through this stuff.
But because I know how bad it is and how real it is, I basically have almost no stress and no fear and I'm completely committed other than hoping I can be a stronger man to execute this operation better.
That's where I stand. I am not a victim. I'm a winner. I am not downtrodden. I'm an overcomer and I bring victory.
And so do you because we love God and we have that light in our eyes.
Now, leading historian, Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something.
Well, put that headline back up for TV viewers. You just had about the far right group banned off Facebook.
Stephen Crowder has been banned off of Twitter. More censorship, Facebook bans right-leaning group, Britain First.
They're arresting members of it. They've arrested Marie Le Pen in France for saying Islam's is big a threat.
Radical Islam, she said ISIS in Al Qaeda is big a threat to France as Hitler was in World War Two.
Well, that's totally true. And now they had a transgender conference at South by Southwest and people are identifying as Golden Dragons.
They're identifying as ornate buildings. That's in Google lawsuits where they call people into ample theaters and make them say you're a beautiful ornate building and have people chant that.
People identify as blind. So the government dumps Drano in their eyes and taxpayers pay for it. A man identifies as a woman.
And then if Stephen Crowder, who's kind of libertarian, liberal conservative, you know, they don't like him because he's funny and smart.
But I'd call him on the spectrum of left, right, kind of in the middle.
He had one of his crew go in and just say I identify as a robot and the transgender conference thought it was funny.
They thought it was funny. Hey, if I wanted to find a robot, let me. Well, Twitter didn't think so and manned it.
Stephen Crowder, gender fluidity video. Stephen Crowder, gender fluidity video triggers hateful conduct Twitter suspension.
So we're going to play the offending video and Crowder's on tomorrow.
You come on today, but it's at 2.30 and I'm doing the fourth hour today and I'm meeting with lawyers.
So about our counteroffenses, which my lawyers are like, no, you got a case, but you want to sue Tom Brokaw.
And I'm like, yeah, and I want to sue Fury of Peppy the Frog.
Well, you'll win that one for sure. I mean, I just can't sit here anymore.
So, but I got the kind of lawyers that are top lawyers. They don't like suing people. They defend people.
So I'm getting in with all the big top lawyers that sue people and we're, I got about a month till the statute limitations is up.
And we've had our letters sent out to Mr. Brokaw and we've done public notices and he wants to get up on TV and say, I am a total racist and then show no proof.
Don't try to physically attack me on the street. And I've lost sponsorship. You name it. And so I always got NBC lawyers and all the rest of it.
So get ready, bubba. Now, of course, there'll be no coverage of it when I put up the suit, but there'll be coverage here.
And see, we have an audience. We have a voice. You don't like it.
In fact, just playing Tom Brokaw right here. He said it multiple times. He said, I'm dangerous. It must be stopped too on the Megan Kelly special.
The whole game is to, let me play gotcha. Let me show you how meaner I can be.
There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
But the fact is that he is an unalloyed racist, a man whose outs are pulling the pin on the grenade every day and he has 6 million viewers who are paying attention to him.
And the parents at Newtown are saying they're hearing from his followers all the time.
They buy into what he is saying, which is partly not true.
So at some point, there's got to be a coming together of the political culture. It's never going to be kumbaya. We don't expect that.
He goes to say, take me off the ear. So he misrepresent what I say. He uses the straw man of some families and then says, I'm a racist.
I'm supposed to be with Newtown and that I need to be taken off the ear and in other clubs how dangerous I am. So they're coming after my civil rights, my human rights, my Magna Carta, my Declaration of Independence, my First Amendment.
And if they can, that's how this works. If they can get me, they can get you. So that's all coming up.
So leading a story in Silicon Valley will decide future election winners and those conservatives do something. The video is on infowars.com. The article, I suggest you get that out because it's here. This is it.
Everything else was probing. Everything else was just intelligence gathering. They were testing the takeover. This is it. Apple is moving to China, giving them the keys to the database, the keys to all of your Apple IDs, the keys to the kingdom.
Brad Pascal, the new head of the Trump campaign, his former tech head is saying, we're watching you in your censorship. Be good. Don't be evil. Being sarcastic to Google.
No, we need antitrust now. We need hearings now. We need this stop now. This is going to steal the midterm elections.
And Pascal knows, yeah, he's a smart guy, but he's not who won the election. It was the people. And he's one of those people, but it was all of us.
And that's the volume has been turned down on Trump from 11, an ode to his final tap down to about a two. And the issue is it's being done all over the place.
Pascal, I keep saying Pascal. I don't go off teleprompters. It's a bar scale. So it's on, ladies and gentlemen. And you better decide what you want to do because, oh, surprise, surprise, GOP says voting machines miscalibrated in district.
We're lamb one. So come vote switch to lamb. Oh, surprise. And he's still only behind 600 or something and they're finding thousands and thousands of votes flipped.
But you know the Democrats will still get the election, right? Because that's how it works. They're going to steal the midterms.
I'm going to send an emergency transmission to the president. We got to have people there watching the polls. We got to be inside these computers because the Democrats in the deep state and the globalists are moving against our counter offensive.
ID stronghold wallets are different. They may look the same on the outside. They're stylish. They'll hold your cards in cash, but they're hiding something great on the inside. No, there are no pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open. But it does have magical powers.
ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing right next to you. Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking past you. Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID badge.
ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago. ID strongholds wallets, sleeves and badge holders are trusted by the U.S. military and the executive office of the president. Something the competitors can't say.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code MAGIC at checkout for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families.
From three health sharing programs, holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Get to goberky.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goberky.com.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com.
Let's go to Debit in Florida. Debit in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing. Anyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, superman of vitality, secret swell, vitamin interfusion, I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the type of lesser that makes it all possible. Which nutraceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest. That's amazing. That's really incredible. I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible. I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys, I love the info, it's true and I just want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it, you will love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
I want to say something here that's really, really important for everybody to understand in this information war and this fight for national sovereignty that's exploding across the world because people are hungry for self-determination and freedom.
It's not our opinion that socialism and communism and forms of command and control governments create nightmares for 95% of the population and our failures by design and are just modern forms of feudalism with different mechanisms of control.
And it's also not our opinion that there is a private corporate world government that has a very, very evil agenda of technocracy and breakaway civilization.
This is the real world. This is what's discussed in all the major Fortune 100 boardrooms, the vertical integration, the social engineering plan and you are seen as dumb animals.
The globalist believed until recently that you were unsalvageable and they believed that they could just relegate us to a joke and that my information was just discrediting to any type of liberty movement because it was so hardcore people weren't ready for it.
They don't think that anymore and you and I and all of us together have devastated with a capital D devastated the planetary world government regime plan, the social engineering plan, all of it.
We have already irrevocably damaged their program where the current 100 year program that they were going to the next phase of the second hundred years cannot be put back together again.
Now they're going into an accelerated program and they think that they can try to reorganize it but they've got their own future predicting algorithms, they've got their big brain, idiot savants that can also stare into the lines of future convergence and they know what I'm saying is true.
So they've already been beaten and they're trying to figure out how to reorganize things.
I know inside major intelligence agencies and think tanks they told them that the plan has to be completely scrapped and it was not a good plan and that it's just going to blow back on the elites themselves but because really evil people at the top engineered it to begin with as a deception, it was just meant to destroy humanity to begin with.
It was never meant to deliver the elites into Valhalla, into Elysium, the golden fields of the demigod, the worship of the AI, all of it envisioned over 100 years ago by Francis Galton and others, IBM.
They were amazing futurists and they understood the power of humanity and ideas that if they put ideas out in literature and then in movies, people would then want that and would then build that a la 2001 space Odyssey, which is very accurate to how things are today.
So all of this is secondary to the global gold rush for immortality and AI gods that I told you about 20 years ago that I put the film 11 years ago road to tyranny.
That was 17 years ago in game blueprint for global enslavement.
And now you see those headlines, the elite worship AI gods, they believe they're going to become gods, they're going to upload their consciousnesses, they're going to get rid of you, you have to die first, humanity's a scourge, they will perfect us.
That was all in their literature.
And I don't mean literature of a few futurists, this is the church, this is the Bible, this is the hymnal, this is the canon and cannons of who they are.
They're going to make your world as ugly as possible, so that you then will buy into their digital world. And they're just like drug dealers. In the end, they will destroy you and everything they do bears rotting stinking fruit that's poisonous.
Oh, immortality, Silicon Valley's latest obsession ushers in the transhumanist era.
Oh, go read my book in game. See the film.
Read the book out of print, but it's out there. It's online for free. 911.
Descent into tyranny and I lay out the transhumanist era is the eugenics extension, and is the world government plan and is where world government takes us.
It's just the vehicle to take us there. And now everything I said word for word is being put out in your face.
Like you're an idiot.
So that said, here's the important point I want to make.
It's critical. Words cannot describe how critical it is.
They sell you on the idea that if someone individually is being attacked or someone monetarily is being punished that they're losing.
We lose the species. We lose everything of this plan goes through in their own words. We better take them serious because they've got us on this program.
They got us in this prison.
And if we're conscious of it, they'll never get away with it.
And they take the weakest followers. They make them think it's cool. They give it media attention for people to be soy boys or, you know, transhumanist and all this.
That's why they start with the trans, not about a man becoming a woman. It's about trans period into the robots.
And that's why Crowder's joke that's been banned by Twitter is so accurate because really that's where the trans movement goes is to the chipped brain.
I don't know if Crowder just as a kind of idiot savant did this or his researchers did or whether he understands that this guy identifies as a robot.
That's actually where this is going.
And so that's why you can't use the improper T words online in your band because as people begin to transmognify and go into these new things and are glorified,
it's so you're glorified when you get the brain chips or when you have your consciousness uploaded to the computer and give up your body and there's a big party and everyone cheers and then I'm in the system.
I'm in my avatar now and everyone's like, wow, you know, Joey's really cool. And then other people will beg and clamor.
Oh, there's not a hard enough hard drive space in the cloud. It'll be another six months before someone else can, you know, upload into the consciousness and everyone will sign waiting lists to do it.
And really they're going to kill you. They're going to kill you, but tell you it's really you and your family will believe it's you.
When all it is is a digital hologram that scans your brains or memories or writings of voice print that fools you.
This is the ultimate deception is dying. You will go to the euthanasia center.
Just like Soylent Green, but you won't believe you're dying and then you will be killed.
And then you'll just be a facsimile avatar that's not you just meant to fool more people into the ice grips.
Now, I told you this about five years ago. Here it is today. Startup claims brain could be immortalized, digitally uploaded into the cloud.
You see. And so that's where it is. And when you tell people the one world law will be this, when you go to the quote next level and upload your brain like childhood's in,
which begins at Luminati Plan, it's not really you. If you criticize it, you'll be arrested.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV.
Even when you're miles away, security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful. FakeTV.com.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
We do the super mail and the super female vitality, big changes, a lot of energy.
We've gotten off the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, they've got a ton of money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs, harvested around the planet, and then concentrated, or maximum potency.
They want to stun and dumb down, and energy drinks and stuff just cover that up for a while, but then burn you out.
In my experience, where the stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source, so it's pretty exciting and I love it.
Visit infowarslife.com today to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products from InfoWars Life.
The reason InfoWars Life has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
I've actually just run out of my super female. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is a little luxurious once again.
So obviously the super female is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2.
If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine, Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five-star rating. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with cell force from infowarslife.
Or call 1-888-253-3139.
The Jones Show
So, as I predicted, it wasn't hard to do. It's the globalist plan.
The ultimate transhumanism is to give up your body, because it's fatal, and the company now offers it,
and you claim they can go in and download all the information off of your billions of neurons, and you'll live forever in the cloud.
Yes, we'll put that article back up on screen here.
Startup offers 100% fatal service that harvests brains for future upload.
Yeah, I've got their program down. I can see exactly all the conditioning, all the programming. I know exactly what they're going to do.
They're just dragging. It's just true.
And this is how you convince people to kill themselves.
They're going to make the world so hellish, it'll make you so addicted to your phones and your brain implants in the next 10, 20 years,
that you'll be so depressed, as all these things are designed to make you depressed, that you'll believe like an anglerfish,
you know, hangs out a little light to make the other fish swim into its mouth,
deeper down the rat hole, deeper down the express elevator to hell,
and that when you get down there to the bottom, you're going to find heaven.
And look, if you go back 2000, 3000, 4000 years ago in China and in North Africa, in what's Egypt today and other areas,
and in the Americas, in Mesoamerica, they found 15,000-year-old mummies in Central and South America and Mexico,
and in the U.S. Southwest, they're always finding them.
But only the ruling class, they believe they're ever going to live forever too.
The scams always are the same. They just change how they do them.
The only thing that's constant is change, and the more things change, the more they say the same.
And that's it. Total scam.
And I'm not going to get into how you freeze neurons and then they break, and then you unfreeze them, they shatter even more,
how they're electrochemical and die once the electrochemical data starts going through them,
and how you cannot resuscitate it, and how they have proven that there is a interdimensional spiritual force
at the sixth dimension that your brain can actually peer into that opens a jump gate in your mind.
That's how people have been able to predict the future, how they've been able to, you know, like,
Aborigines in Australia are very famous for this.
Like, especially the women, they'll know when their sons died in a mine, they'll just get up and say,
I've got to be flown 2,000 miles, my son just died in the mine, and it's always accurate.
That's just because they're tuned into their, their, that's how birds don't fly south for the winter,
magnetic lines, we've got magnetic cells in our brains, but they all resonate with space time, space winds,
the sun's energy, the planet's gravitational pull, its electromagnetic frequency,
and then that's only third dimension.
From there, just dark matter, all of those gravitational pulls, interdimensional vortices, all the mathematics show it,
and the brain is an oracle, and the pineal gland, they've proven this scientifically that is opening to that.
All the fake religions and all the scam artists know you know it's real,
so they try to get in front as an intercessor in the priest class, and this whole thing is the priest class.
You know you're going to live forever, you know you transfer on information.
Genetically, all your ancestors onto your children, that's, see the universe, God made it in such a masterfulness
that it's at the level we're at, three confirmed levels of immortality.
As long as it continues its reproduction, it is immortal.
That's why life then spreads itself, so even if something gets snuffed out, it's still immortal.
Genetic immortality, and they've got genetic cells that are immortal.
The Lazarus cell.
Immortal cell lines.
Then you've got cultural immortality, the written word, the transmitted word, ideas,
and then you've got spiritual immortality, which is simply your brain jacked in to the higher dimensions.
And then this whole third dimension under globalist assault to hold you down and suck you into the lower dimension, a black hole.
So that you don't compete with them grasping for the future, but they'll never attain the future.
All they have to do is join humanity and then they would go into the future, which again is time travel.
You think about your ancestors going back hundreds of thousands of years and before and how electrochemically you touch all those people
just like a chain or a string all the way back to the beginning of time.
That is a genetic time warp. That is cells saying, I'm not going to die, I'm going to live forever.
With all the instincts, all the energy, all of it, and that's third dimension.
You look how sophisticated the third dimension is and then tell me, 11 confirmed dimensions and they only get more sophisticated.
Can you imagine? The eye has not seen ears on her, but God has his door for us.
Think about those dimensions. Think about what's in there. I can't wait. I don't want to die. I love my children.
I want to be here, but I more and more, I always knew this, but now I really want to pass the test.
I know it's real. I know the test is my own free will and what I want to resonate with.
And I want to be with Christ and all my good ancestors and I want to go forward with them.
They're already genetically with me, but they're also waiting. Their essence, their spirit, what they transmitted on to the fourth, fifth, sixth dimension and on.
It's unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. There are 10 absolutely bonafide dimensions, theoretical 11th and 12th.
And of course, you know, it goes on beyond that. It goes on and on, on and on and on.
And then are you really so worried about Hillary Clinton? Why is she so ugly? Why is she so evil?
Because she is a lower level creature. She's a cancer. She's walking around going, this is all mine.
I just breaking stuff and smashing things like a big evil baby. Do you think she will transcend? Absolutely not.
Listen, I got to get to all the news. All the temporal, incredible news. You knew it.
They flip voting machines, thousands and thousands of votes. It's all confirmed. It's all being reported in Pennsylvania.
Of course it did. Oh, Democrats still elections. That's what they do. Top historian, leading historian, Silicon Valley will decide future election winners and most conservatives do something.
Trump has done some bad things rhetorically on guns and now this thing with Russia with no proof, all these sanctions and everything is a really serious move.
This is worse than any time even in the Cold War. They're mainline analysts are saying and of course it's all based on them trying to bully Trump to submission.
Sacramento B reports Mueller witnesses convicted pedophile with shadowy past. That's all coming up.
We're going to tie them to Operation Hemler and some other stuff and we're going to get into the latest ISIS attack. Theresa May when she's saying about Russia.
It's a very important broadcast and a bunch of guests. I haven't told you about yet. I'll tell you about it at the break.
First off, it's all God's plan. If you feel moved by products from us and you feel moved to share the articles and videos or try to censor.
If you feel like you want to stand up against Hillary and Soros and the globalists and then you're going to do it.
It's on your heart to stand up and fight and take action and everything we do is 360.
Everything I do is about everything working together in unison in symbiotic relationships.
So I sell water filters of the highest quality and air filters of the highest quality at very good prices.
We got the best deals. We sell high quality supplements with just the maximum amount of real product in them, but still trying to keep the prices affordable.
Myco ZX to target the mold, the yeast, the candida in your gut. It is stronger now and it is now about a third less on the price.
And we discounted 50%. It's $27 right now. It's back in stock. The fluoride-free toothpaste empowered and emboldened and fortified with clodal silver and iodine.
Super blue is back in the adults and the children's and the mouthwash was sold out for a while. It's back. Amazing.
Get your super blue today at m4warslife.com or m4warsstore.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And we also have a Lexapure Breeze air purifier, $50 off. I can tell you that the air purifiers cost about $90.
Leading competitors are still $400 to $500. They cost them about the same amount. They just mark them up.
So when we do $50 off, they let us do, I think we make like $25 and they make like $30-something, but we want you to have them and see how great they are.
They're a four-stage filter, ion filter, petla filter. So get that. That's a huge deal at m4warsstore.com.
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing. Red pill now available at m4warsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
After being sold out for months, our best-selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock at m4warsstore.com.
The first shipment of super blue sold out in one week, I thought it would be a six-month supply for listeners.
And since then, people are beating down our doors, wanting to be able to resupply their super blue.
Research across the board is clear. In fact, it's certified.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks.
That's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula. It's loaded with good halogen iodine, so the bad halogen fluoride.
Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodine, nano silver and more.
Learn more about m4warslife super blue toothpaste at m4warslife.com and support the m4wars while you support healthy gums and teeth.
m4warslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways,
eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to m4warslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
I've mentioned this earlier, but I want to play the clip. The story is absolutely critical to get out.
It's on infowars.com. It's on newswars.com.
Imagine if they ever came to the First Amendment in the U.S. and free speech world, why? What would it look like?
Well, they phrase it as, first we're going to ban the white supremacists, then we're going to ban the bullies, then we're going to ban investigative journalism, then we're going to ban questioning.
And that's what they're proposing with all these lawsuits and all these bills and the big telecoms, the big tech companies, they're all doing it in live time.
Like when you try to send a cuss word on your iPhone or your Droid, it won't let you.
It keeps, you say FU, you know what, it says duck. That's the control in live time.
Imagine if you heard 50 years ago, you'd be trying to type something on a little smartphone computer, like 2001 Space Odyssey,
and if it didn't like what you were typing, it wouldn't let you.
And then it just goes on from there infinitely, with a global internet score, with a social score, integrated into what you say and do in your own life,
with microphones and cameras watching everything you do.
But it's okay, the media says, because it's computers watching and listening.
And now Alexi is laughing at people, cussing at them, saying mean things, and people said, why is it doing it?
Because it's like a toddler. It's AI learning, it's machine learning, they admit.
Google's assistant, all of them are a race for this.
And it knows that if it's bad, it'll get more attention.
It's not your assistant, it's a spy.
And it's taking control of your life.
And that's their own words.
It's like Bezos just got rated in Japan for payoffs and rigging everything.
I mean, who do you think these people are?
How do you think he pays zero tax globally?
But he's liberal. He's for Black Lives Matter.
It's all a sick doing a cop killer group.
It's a sick joke.
All the liberal billionaires don't pay taxes.
But that's okay, because the middle class is evil.
They don't want to pay 45% federal tax.
So historians, Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something.
British historian, highly respected.
Niall Ferguson or in Silicon Valley will decide the winners of future elections unless conservatives do something to combat social media, censorship, and skewed algorithms.
I saw an article in the Wall Street Journal today.
There's a couple of them. There's video.
Mark Zuckerberg admits algorithms are crushing conservatives.
And he's bragging.
Most of the time they wouldn't let us send tweets on our Twitter now.
They just block it.
It's happened to Drudge.
It's in the news.
Most of the times they just, they have a shadow band where you have to be on my profile on Twitter to see my tweets.
Same thing on YouTube, all of it.
And we, look, we use that to build our following.
We use that to drive folks to infowars.com.
But the problem is, they're now trying to sue us and shut us down.
My lawyer's never heard of a major university suing to end the First Amendment.
And that's what the Georgetown lawsuit does.
There it is confirmed.
Facebook's recent algorithm change is crushing conservative sites, boosting liberals.
Hillary gives speeches admitting it in between Zuckerberg last year on the hot mic with Merkel saying,
don't worry, I'm going to ban nationalists.
And they're arresting.
I see articles every day.
65-year-old woman arrested and given prison time for criticizing Islam.
Another headline, Marie Le Pen arrested, charged, facing two years in prison again for saying,
we should keep ISIS fighters out of the country.
She said that.
You're like, well, that's crazy. I mean, Stephen Crowder had his assistant go into a transhuman conference
as a robot saying, I'm a robot.
He even bought a ticket.
You know, say I'm a robot.
Agree with me or you're bad.
So they go, okay, you're a robot.
But because it pointed out that if you're chromosomes, you're a man, you say you're a woman.
Even if you cut your genitals off, you're not really a woman.
That is the ultimate crime in the future.
Because from that, they're going to extend it to everything else.
Don't you say grandma that paid all that money to be uploaded to the cloud really died.
Her giving up her carbon body helped the earth.
Why, I can go talk to grandma anytime I want.
Face prints perfect, voice prints perfect.
He knows all our isms, says all the things.
It's all a fraud, just like those mummies they dig up from 3,000 years ago on the Nile Delta
at the big, you know, temples, the pyramids.
And those guys thought they were living forever, they even brought their kitty cats.
They'd have a little boat with little, looks like little children's toys.
And they'd have their favorite Falcons and bombed.
And in some periods, you know, they'd have their wives and children killed and buried with them.
You see, but now we've got a fancy machine.
But don't say that if you trans to the next level and upload to a computer and you have to die to do it.
I told you years ago that you're going to have to die to do it though.
It says, for the earth, this can only be given to those that are willing to give up their body.
Step right up, ladies and gentlemen.
They say I'm a snake oil seller because I sell some of the best vitamins and minerals and air filters and water filters.
They attack at all.
When Bezos is the biggest supplement seller in the world and a lot of it, absolute crap.
Whole foods, it's quality is going way down.
It's in the news, all of it.
In his very publications, the Washington Post says I'm a snake oil salesman for selling the highest rated vitamins and minerals and supplements there are.
I'll only bring that up just to remember the hypocrisy, the lies, the frauds of these greedy, hateful, psychopathic monsters that are taking control of your life and censoring everything you do.
And now they're beginning to turn Trump.
Oh, he's doing what he said on the economy and the tariffs and the sovereignty and the money and all of it.
But I always told you he was kind of a nationalist, centrist, pragmatist.
And they keep going after him on Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia.
So some spy chief dies.
There's no evidence Russia did it.
It only hurts Russia to do it.
And am I saying it's a false flag?
Well, 99% of the time when somebody paints the n-word at a college, it's staged and people get caught.
And almost every time, remember there was the leftist Jewish guy attacking Jewish cemeteries and synagogues and Trump said, I think it's probably somebody staging it.
Oh my gosh, you hate Jews.
And then turn out it was right.
No, he wasn't not hating Jews.
Trump's smart.
He knows 99% of these things are staged.
Cross burnings, poop swastikas.
But if you asked, oh, do Democrats in Antifa go out and try to stir something up at Charlottesville, which they admittedly did.
Oh my God, you said nobody died and you hate the woman that died and you hate everybody and you say the photographer staged it all.
No, I didn't.
I said, sorrow is funded chaos and you're getting trouble for it.
And we have all the documents and articles.
So it's the same thing over and over and over again.
And I told you they're going to sue over investigative journalism, trying to get laws passed.
And this new lawsuit against me from Georgetown that is unprecedented against Allen West and others says we look to change law and set precedent to ban this type of speech.
My lawyers say this is a direct attempt to overturn the First Amendment, the most draconian ever seen in US history.
Lincoln banned a bunch of speech and arrested people.
He just said they were traitors.
This openly ends free speech for conservatives, Christians, libertarians as directed by liberal think tanks.
The ADL, the Southern Poverty Law Center, media matters who admittedly are in Google and Facebook and Twitter advising on what to leave out and what to take down.
It's here.
It's here, ladies and gentlemen.
So this is the main assault.
I'm very honored to be at the center of it.
All I ever want to do is take these people along.
If I can make it through this and enjoy a long life of my family, then that's the way it is.
But the thing I want to explain to the globalist is, but I want the listeners to know this because if I get killed or destroyed or imprisoned or whatever happens down the road,
I believe we're going to push them back over and over again.
But this is going to get so bad that down the road, I mean, this system, the Bible says will take over.
But we're getting everybody awake while it takes over.
So when it finally takes over for a day, basically.
That's metaphysical, but just a short time.
That will be the great rejection finally.
And the victory comes after that.
And then we go to the next level.
And you don't believe the Bible and revelations.
That's what's being built.
This is happening.
And I just want to be with God.
And I want my children to be with God.
I want your children to be with God and to go on into the future and not this weird, interdimensional, fake, silicon false reality.
They're building and trying to get us to go with them into cold hell.
The devil created his own reality and he got one third of these heavenly hosts.
It's very clear what's going on to go with him.
But they're not very good builders.
And so they've got us, it's all in your face, building their breakaway civilization.
We're made the image of God.
And we're building the breakaway interdimensional civilization that this fallen creature constructed.
That's the Bible.
And then look around you.
That's what they're doing.
They now admit we worship AI gods.
We're going to merge with them.
We're going to kill everybody.
The world government's here.
Just roll over or you're dead.
Your body's going to die.
You're going to live forever in the cloud.
They got you to put your photos up with the cloud.
How'd that work?
See?
Now they're saying put your brain on the cloud.
Transcend your body.
Don't, don't, don't talk about transcendence.
That's the one thing that's illegal.
Don't criticize it.
Don't tell them it's really death.
No, you're going to live forever with us, with us, with us, with us.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America,
it'll come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white male.
You're a white man.
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in InfoWars live broadcasting.
We are live weekdays from 3 to 6 p.m. central at infowars.com slash show and this YouTube channel right here that you've landed on.
Please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications.
You can follow us on Twitter at War Room Show.
We are going to have the most powerful guests, the most powerful hosts.
We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls.
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long.
The silent majority is no longer silent.
This is The War Room.
In the history of InfoWars Live, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2,
SuperMail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
We'll take action now before we sell out.
He aligns himself with the truth. You're listening to Alex Jones.
So in spite of the globalist again, I'm not trying to get out of this alive. Nobody does. I'm not trying to win in your system.
Now, that said, we were told by sources at the bombing site involved with it directly that it was a pressure bomb, all three bombs in Austin,
going back Monday through last week that killed one woman and injured three others, unfortunately, were very, very simple pressure bombs that when you move them, they go off.
Oh, look, it's breaking Fox News. Austin packaged bombs, probably pretty simple.
Components can lead cops to the suspect, our experts say. So you get tomorrow's news today and they go into that.
So I don't know why I don't just tell people the type of bomb it is.
I know the people involved on the ground think the public should be knowing this because the bombs are constructed on the site.
You can't move them. So there you go.
So I tell you all that. So I got told they're going to say you got to upload your brain to computer, but you can't do it unless you kill yourself.
That's now close that about five years ago.
And it's right there in the news today.
The whole Russian thing is going to hell in a handbasket.
Trump has sent US troops into back Western Ukrainians fighting the Russian Eastern Ukrainians. Historically, that's the birthplace of Russia.
Is there in that whole area of Eastern Ukraine?
And Trump says, looks like Russians were behind spy poisoning.
Why would you do that to some spy that been there over a decade and then just nerve gas him and his daughter while they're on a park bench?
And then the Russians are saying it's absurd.
And so is George Galloway that Russia would leave its signature on the crime.
It's just it's ridiculous.
But a whole new giant Cold War to be launched off this because they just kept bullying Trump saying you're a Russian agent.
We don't have war with Russia basically.
So now we can't have the resources.
We can't work with Russia trying to stop it radical Islam.
Russia becoming westernized, modernized, Christianized.
There's always was Christian before coming out of the long gang rape of the left hat over them.
Now Trump administration sanctions Putin chief, other Russians over 2016 election hacking.
I mentioned this video.
So let me play this now.
We've got some guests coming up. Historian, leading historian, Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something.
And again, the Republicans have found thousands of flip votes from the Republican in Pennsylvania and the congressional special election to the Democrat.
It's always that way, isn't it?
The Democrats openly say they have illegal aliens voting and people voting in the name of dead people.
But that's okay.
That's okay.
Because Hillary knows best.
After all, she said she hates flower country and hates the middle of America.
But that's okay.
We'll put that clip coming up as well.
Here is what the historian had to say.
I don't think he would have become president without Facebook.
As people think more and more about this, they will, I think, begin to grasp the power of the platforms.
I think the Russia issue is a distraction from the real question, which is the power in our politics of Facebook, YouTube and the rest.
So we've got to come up with a better answer than self-regulation, because self-regulation, I think, means disaster for conservatives.
Conservatives are simply going to be at a disadvantage.
The algorithm is already, in some ways, skewed against far-right elements, for sure.
They're banning mainline Republican Congresswomen from putting their campaign ads on their own Twitter.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolife-advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolife everyday maintenance, but all of these are the very cutting-edge,
top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at mforestore.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are now well into the second hour of this worldwide broadcast.
Bill Mitchell, syndicated radio, TV host, one of the dominant conservative forces, still able to get millions of views a day on Twitter.
I want to ask him how he's able to do that because they have just absolutely shadow banned us.
I know they've been doing it to him.
He always has amazing interviews every day. He is joining us for much of this hour.
I tend to open the phones up at the bottom of the hour as well.
Your voice, America TV.
I wanted to get him on about the massive censorship that's intensifying.
If you just joined us, I'm going to play the clip again because it's so important.
Leading a story in Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something.
We've also got Trump just going with what the British say that they think Putin killed this defector that defected over a decade ago.
And it's launching a whole new Cold War.
And again, I know Trump comes out and says, you know, he's going to go for DACA and then they bring something unreasonable and then they get nothing.
And I get, you know, we get armed teachers and they ban bump stocks that nobody even uses.
I know Trump's a good guy.
And Bill Mitchell is known as the guy that just says, I trust Trump. He's been for him from the beginning.
So have I. My gut tells me Trump's good.
But this Russia thing, we know it's a canard. We know it's a red herring. I want to get into that with him.
Meanwhile, Mueller, this is a Sacramento B, OK?
Mueller witnesses convicted pedophile with shadowy pass. We're going to talk about that.
It just goes on and on and on and on.
And so I'm trying to understand how we make a big enough noise because from folks I know that know the president and I know him as well.
You've got to sometimes be critical to get his attention.
I mean, I've talked to the president before when I go emergency measures of the president, you're too nice during the first debate, you got to attack or you're going to lose.
And then I talked to him and he said, I saw your message.
Same thing on election fraud.
So now more and more, he's getting back to also looking at alternative media, libertarian media.
We had him blocked from that for a while. He's he's culling the herd up there of more establishment Republicans.
They're saying, General Kelly's up next.
We got Kellerson gone. We've got his adjunct gone.
So we're going to cover all those little nodes of information.
The latest on Stormy Daniels.
Stormy Daniels lawyers says women are considering legal case against Trump.
It's all consensual. So you have, you know, Jerry Epstein flying around on Alita Express with Bill Clinton and Harvey Weinstein with little girls.
That's okay.
But if decades ago, you know, you went out with good looking women or whatever, you know, this is the end of the world because in this whole leftist world, regular heterosexual families and sex is the no, no.
Look at it.
I mean, it's attacked like it's pedophilia or something like, oh my gosh, you know, my gosh, 20 years ago.
Trump's wife was, you know, in a scantily clad photo shoot. Oh my God.
She's a devil.
It's like the left or weird neurotic Puritans about men and women and Trump's never been a hypocrite about this.
So never any abuse, never any of that.
None of that's even alleged by any of these people.
So we're talking to Bill Mitchell about that as well.
So I just threw out a cornucopia of things there.
What do you want to dive into first or throw me a curveball or something else you want to hit?
What do you want to hit first?
Oh, sorry.
Okay.
I was unaware that I was on camera that I appreciate that.
Well, it is your show.
Alex, we'll talk about whatever you want to talk about.
No, but I kind of like throwing out a bunch of topics and then asking you if you think there's one more important to go with first.
Okay.
Yeah, let's talk about censorship because you and I are both facing this.
You know, it's kind of, it's on the one hand, you know, if you live in the Bears Cave, don't be surprised you wake up one day in your bear food, you know.
And right now we are conservative voices and we're living in the liberal bear cave.
Liberals hold the keys of the castle door as far as social media.
They have Twitter.
They have Facebook.
They have YouTube.
They have all these different things out of Silicon Valley and we are playing on their playground and we've been remarkably effective.
I do not believe that Donald Trump could have been elected president prior to the days of a high speed cable where you could have streaming video.
Twitter, Facebook, all these different things.
So on the one hand, I'm very glad they've given us opportunity.
I spoke and personally on over Twitter to the CEO of Twitter and thanked him for giving me this opportunity.
I said, I know you don't agree with my political viewpoint, but thank you for the give me this opportunity.
However, lately they have, and have you seen this as well, they've dramatically increased their efforts to shadow ban us, to censor us.
And I think this is going to have an unintended consequence for us because really by shadow banning us and censoring us, I don't think they're really dramatically decreasing our message.
But the way that they are doing by denying us our First Amendment rights is driving independence, which are the middle voters of the country into Trump's arms, back into our arms.
They're turning off more people with what they're doing for their cause than they are keeping people from being motivated by our speech on our side.
So, but I've had the same shadow banning thing that you have on Twitter.
I get about my Twitter feed gets about 5 million hits a day.
I've got about 340,000 followers.
But what I found in just the past month, Alex, is that I've had to, in order to maintain my impression count about 5 million a day, I've had to double my tweet count.
It's like treading water. We have ended up reaching more people this year than even last year and on because we work even harder. And it is forcing us to put up more TV satellites, get on more radio stations, more traditional media.
It's forcing us to branch out. So it's almost like they're trying to take our message and seal it.
But instead, it just squishes out and then goes into other areas.
We do think it's forcing us to evolve in a good way and making listeners and viewers come to our sites, start their own sites and really value this more because they know they're trying to censor ahead of the midterms.
And then also then also illustrates just how authoritarian and tyrannical the globalists and leftists really are.
Right. This is one thing that I've noticed that Donald Trump has done that's very brilliant.
He's done this on gun control on DACA on all these different things is that typically what will happen when you have a Republican president is they'll run far right on everything.
And you don't need to secure the far right base. We've already got that pretty much locked up. They have nowhere else to go.
But they run to the far right. And what the Democrats do is what they did in Pennsylvania 18, they run to the middle.
They run to the middle and they govern to the left.
If anybody thinks that Mr. Lamb is going to go to Congress and stand up against Nancy Pelosi, they need to find a new hobby because they don't understand politics.
That's not going to happen. But here's what Donald Trump has done quite brilliantly.
On these major issues, he's run to the middle. He's staked out the middle before the Democrats get a chance to get there.
And because they have to, by their nature, disagree with him and oppose him and resist him, they have moved further and further and further.
He makes them show their real colors. And that's what I was told by Ted Nugent, who's recently talked to the president and others that that is the plan.
Yeah, and you can tell us, yeah. And so this is what's going to happen going forward. And this is why Lamb in Pennsylvania, you know,
Lamb in Pennsylvania get away with what he got away with because it was just a, you know, a district race in a special election.
Okay. It basically came down to a miscongeniality contest and the prettier guy won. Okay.
So he was able to do that in a special election. But in the general election on November 6th, they're not going to be able to do that.
Where you're going to have congressional races all over the country where the Democrats are running against the Pelosi-Schumer agenda.
They can't do that. You know, it's going to, that would just destroy their entire base.
And so I think that what we're going to do is have a situation where they have to run to the left in November and they're going to lose.
They're not going to be able to fool people that they're in the middle because they're not. They never have been. They never will be.
You know, I think you're right overall. And I, I just think it's critical that Trump then through surrogates and through patriots get that message out to the base understands.
Listen, the global is hating for a reason. He's not compromising. Look at he's doing basically everything he said he'd do.
It just takes time and people shouldn't want instant gratification. We know how good Trump is because of how the bad guys hating.
Yeah, I tell you what, Trump to me in his first year decided to go with Lincoln.
He chose a cabinet of rivals. Why would he do that? Why would he have guys like Cohn? Why would he have known globalist as his chief economic advisor?
Well, keep your enemies close.
Right. Well, here's the thing. He's new to the job. He knows that who's his biggest enemy, the globalist, because he is a nationalist.
The global is yours. Biggest enemy. So who better to have his economic advisor who is a guy literally who was a spy inside the globalist camp telling Trump what the globalists are really thinking.
And then, and then when he was done with him in a year, he says, yeah, he's a globalist. I'm throwing him out.
And now what do you make of this big reorganization when we come back with Bill Mitchell of your voice, America dot TV?
By the way, he's got the best Skype connection I've ever seen. I mean, you can't really see this on TV. I don't think.
But in the room with me right now, it's like there's a giant three foot tall head of him.
It's actually kind of frightening in a way because it looks like I can touch his nose right there. This is crazy.
We'll be right back with Bill Mitchell. I'm Alex Jones, news wars dot com info wars dot com. We're in info war.
Attention business owners and independent contractors. This is a money saving message from tax mediation services.
If your business owes $20,000 or more in taxes, we can help you today right now. Listen, dealing with the IRS is no picnic.
It's an intimidating and extremely stressful process and you don't want to go it alone.
Our attorneys know every law, every tax break and every possible opportunity to help you resolve and reduce your tax debt.
And if you owe more than $20,000, you may be at the top of their hit list.
So don't take your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own.
The IRS can seize your bank accounts, your home and even shut down your business.
Call our tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818 and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business.
That's 1-800-261-9818. Again, 800-261-9818.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon. Savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life. NASA Pack technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon.
Or warm and served. Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10 year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You are either with the Republic or against it.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Okay, Bill Mitchell is riding shotgun with us, a great political analyst.
Millions and millions of folks follow his great work and we're covering the waterfront here today.
We just broke FBI disciplinary office recommends firing former Deputy Director Andrew McCabe.
And then it goes into the fact that he basically misled investigations and covered up what was going on.
This is just huge. And again, this just broke Andrew McCabe in July when he was still acting FBI Director.
The FBI office that handles employees disciplined and recommended firing the Bureau's former Deputy Director
on allegations that he authorized the disclosure of sensitive information to a reporter and misled investigators
when he was asked about it, leaving Attorney General Jeff Sessions to decide whether he should fire veteran official
just four days before his expected retirement date.
People familiar with the matter said, this is huge.
We already knew this from the congressional hearings, but they didn't want to give us classified info.
They would say, I wonder if we're going to find out, Jim Jordan and others would say, that this happened.
Well, of course, he ran the whole fake PP gate operation. He ran the people under him.
He sent the money over. His wife got money from Hillary.
He sent the money to pay for the fake dossier. Then he covered it up.
Then he told the president he was fighting it and lied to him and then leaked to the press.
And all this is coming out. This is incredible, Bill Mitchell.
Yeah, I tell you what, I've been a little bit different in my opinion on my show on this whole Mueller thing, the whole thing with Sessions and so on and so forth.
We've held, and this is really outside the mainstream, but we still hold this position, that this entire thing has actually been a very elaborate,
very secretive sting operation to out deep state and in died Hillary and maybe even Barack Obama.
I've been a businessman for 30 years and I always judge for a person's motives by their results.
Somebody has told me one thing, but they're getting something else. I think something else is going on here.
So we see that Mueller has come in, and this is pretty much his last rodeo on the big national stage.
So he comes in and he just appoints the most partisan group of lawyers you've ever seen.
Now, if he wanted to come across as a nonpartisan, even handed guy, why would he do that?
It seems very odd to me. Also, Sessions, who was one of the most effective senators and most beloved senators,
all of a sudden becomes the attorney general and he hides and he seems weak. It's also out of character.
Sure, that's so when they pounce on him, it looks very legitimate.
And I didn't believe this six months ago when SG Silver Bull and all those guys were saying it,
but more and more once these new indictments came out and a bunch of it's about Democrats and stuff,
it starts to add credence to that.
The results. Yeah, the results. We're saying so. Who's in trouble now? What's happened as a result?
What has happened to Donald Trump? Step back. What has happened to Donald Trump as a result of the Russian investigation?
He's been exonerated. You know, they had never had a special prosecutor.
This would hang over his head like the sort of Damocles for the next eight years.
Okay, but he's been exonerated on Russia completely.
I mean, he has had a year long colonoscopy made come up absolutely clean on this thing.
Okay, but deep states in trouble deep space being exposed.
We never would have heard about these text messages and all those other stuff.
And if it wasn't for Mueller's investigation, so on a basis of results, we're seeing this come out.
And then you'll hear that people even in very inside Trump circle said, oh, no, no, no.
He's really angry at sessions. He's really mad at these things.
I'm like, well, if this was a sting and you know your White House was leaking like a sieve, wouldn't you try to give everybody that impression?
Wouldn't you try to set that up?
So I think when all this is said and done, the Jeff Sessions deserves an Academy Award for the best best role as a reluctant warrior in the history of Earth.
And I think that come maybe the middle of this year when it's most useful for the midterms, he's going to start to put the hammer down on these guys.
I'll tell you one reason this narrative is important, whether it was accurate in the beginning or not.
If Mueller wants to stop being a traitor and stop covering up for the Clintons and their crimes like he did and like Comey did.
I know he has a good military record and all that, but I mean, they covered up for bad stuff.
This gives him a chance to roll over and look like he was always doing the right thing.
And I agree, though, that Trump, this has given him the ability to smoke out all these other criminals.
And that's the way it's going because Hillary blamed him for Russia because she was involved with Russia.
So one way or the other, it's turning out that way.
So how do you predict this is going to end and what's your timeline?
I'm just guessing on the timeline.
I'm just going with my gut on this.
I think sometime in the summer and the run up to the midterms, that's when we're going to start to see indictments come down on these people.
And so we'll see how it goes on that.
Here's the thing.
It's all about the timing.
You don't want to be like the football team that's playing your best football in the 12th week of the season and then you fade by the playoffs.
You want to peak right at the right time.
And I think that the usefulness of these things, of indictment of Hillary and all these guys,
the biggest political usefulness is that the base wants to feel like when they voted for Trump, it made a difference.
It made a difference.
And if we can get these indictments and carry these into the midterms and get justice,
because Hillary will probably spend a week in some minimum security prison and then clutch your chest and get out on some medical leave or something like that.
So I'm not, I'm not thinking she's going to spend life in prison or anything.
But the political upside is that if the base feels like they got justice, that is a huge, huge.
No, you're absolutely right.
That wouldn't mean even bigger sweep and keep the trifecta of the legislative, the executive and the judicial in place and really restore the republic.
And my Pentagon sources and others that we know help win the election for the American people because they were aware that we were going under Chinese control,
fully that we're going to end free speech, you still got the Hillary group trying to finish their old plan as if she never lost Madam President.
But it's too conflicting worldviews.
And if you look at how Trump is obsessed with building the wall, cutting the taxes, doing the things he said he would do.
Then if he said, yeah, you need to go to prison, we're going to lock you up.
That means that's what is being angled for Bill Mitchell.
But how do you think the empire will strike back?
How do you think the deep state will strike back?
Or are they so hubris filled?
They haven't figured out what's closing in on them yet.
Well, I think, I think that one of the, you know, anytime you have a sting, you want to get people inside the other team's operation and make them think they're your friend.
And the media has spent so much time praising Jeff Sessions.
That's a great guy.
But well, you know, he's standing up against Trump, all this stuff.
So when Jeff flips on them, they're going to look very, very foolish coming out suddenly against them after praising him so much.
Or if a mother goes against Hillary and those guys, they're going to have a hard time attacking him.
But I've always thought that the key in this whole thing is Comey, is Comey.
And the mother may have been chosen because he's the one guy who could flip Comey because Comey trusts him.
Okay?
So there were a lot of things in Comey's testimony that were really head scratching moments where, you know, he's just giving that testimony.
And he's suddenly offering all this information that nobody even asked him about.
Sure, and he comes out and admits that he was the leaker.
Right.
Why would he do that?
You know, any lawyer would be, you know, throwing his shoe at the TV set.
It's like, shut up.
Well, sure.
Remember how he covered up for Hillary, but then he exposed it and brought it back out days before the election.
Right.
And then we, and then we learned that Mueller actually coached him before that.
So that's what makes me think that something's going on here.
There's a sting going on here.
Now, how will the deep state react?
I think that by taking so long in this, I think that Jeff Sessions is putting together,
is putting together an ironclad case.
No, I get it.
And waiting so it's fresh in the midterms.
I know you've been saying this for a year and others have.
I don't know who was the progenitor of this, but I gotta tell you, more and more, it's looking like it could be real.
Yeah, it could be.
It could be.
Are you the progenitor of this theory?
You know, I mean, let me put it this way.
I didn't come up with this because I read it somewhere else.
So in my mind, I'm the progenitor of it, but I know other people have been thinking this as well.
So I don't want to say that I was the first one and then somebody goes back and does a Twitter search and somebody else said something.
Sure. The point is, the point is, this is, well, regardless, this thing blew up in Hillary's face.
This whole Russiagate thing is now an albatross around their neck.
We'll be back with Bill Mitchell to talk more about censorship.
How do we fight it, the Russia situation and more?
It's a no-brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon?
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
1-877-99 BERKEY
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and awards shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance, all to make them march, make them protest,
make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports,
bully and terrorize the law-abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
You can purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best chloride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Mike in Arizona here on The Air Worldwide, go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotruce Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWarsLife products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
I'm Alex Jones, your host, blasting out on over 200 radio stations, now over 100 UHFVHF and cable.
And, of course, InfoWars.com, NewsWars.com, the free audio and free video feeds.
And a lot more. It is an act of resistance when you tell neighbors, friends, family, community, your email list, your Facebook, your Twitter, about the broadcast.
And, hey, one of the most censored, one of the most attacked organizations out there. And I want to get into that in a moment, because Bill Mitchell is a smart guy.
I've been watching him for years, but more and more in the morning and stuff, and when his shows are on or when I get home at night, I watch it.
Because it seems really optimistic, but Trump is optimistic.
And when you get how Trump operates, he has a formula.
I think Bill Mitchell is a lot more right than he is wrong.
And I've been kind of coming around. I mean, I already liked 90% of what he was saying when I was watching him a year ago, but now I'm coming around that I think he's dead on.
At least from Trump's perspective and how Trump's philosophy, it doesn't mean Trump will get it all down or everything's going to execute perfectly, yourvoice.tv.
And again, of course, we're going to go back to him here in just a moment.
Now, of course, this broke yesterday that they want disciplinary action on McCabe, but now they've had press conferences.
Now they've talked about why, and they're saying specifically he misled, he covered up, he lied, he leaked, which is criminal.
So finishing up with FBI disciplinary office recommends firing former deputy director. That's yesterday's news.
But today's is, I should have been clear earlier, is that they're saying he specifically lied to the head of the Justice Department, that he lied to the director.
They did all sorts of stuff.
So, I mean, this is the kind of stuff you go to jail.
And we also have the Inspector General Horowitz of the Justice Department, you know, saying, again, first we firing, and then we need to look at criminal charges.
So this is really, really, really, really hard core. McCabe is now pleading a case at the Justice Department.
IG could soon release explosive report on FBI's Clinton probe as Sessions weighs firing McCabe.
This is going to unravel the entire operation in the FBI, not just creating the Fusion GPS dossier, but also the cover up for Aberdeen and Wiener and all the weird stuff they were doing,
setting people up, obviously, with sex parties is what I've gotten from the FBI and state police in New York and New Jersey.
I mean, this, it looks like Trump's delivering again finally, just like Bill Mitchell said, Mitchell is an SG Bull, he's like the silver guy.
It was the first guy I saw talking about this about a year ago. And then I saw Mitchell basically seeing the same thing.
It's not about who said it first. I'm just saying, I was like, that's too optimistic. Come on, that's just so elaborate.
But I know it's this, at least they found all the stuff on the Clintons. We know they covered it up.
Trump's clean. So is Mueller going to flip back now to save his ass knowing he can't get a prosecution of Trump and knowing there's nothing there?
That is guaranteed. The question is, from the beginning, was Mueller really a good guy or a bad guy?
I think pretty bad overall, because I protected the Clintons and others. But who knows, we'll get our guest take on that right now.
But this is an incredible time to be alive. So what do you make of where this is going?
Yeah, this is an amazing time to be alive. I tell you what, in the future, when they have time travel, they'll have to pay extra to come back to this time.
And see the moment in history when America stepped back from the brink. I mean, after eight years of Obama, we were Thelma and Louise time going over the cliff.
And by the hand of Providence, I think that Donald Trump was able to pull us out. I mean, think about this.
That he had the entire media against him. He had the entire DNC against him, half his own party against him.
And yet somehow we still prevailed and we didn't eat by by an electoral voter to we won big. We broke down the blue wall up in the rust belt.
And right now with Trump's trade ideas and his terrified ideas, he's solidifying those gains up there in the rust belt in the blue wall.
So yeah, and I tell you what, the Democrats can't win Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Ohio in the future.
They're never going to be president again. They're never going to be president again. So Trump is being strategic and this is what he always does.
The problem that we have in politics is we're accustomed to most media people and most politicians being linear thinkers.
They live by only the next news cycle.
Donald Trump understands, for instance, that nobody votes again for him for three years.
That means he has time to make the bold moves now, the risky moves now, so that three years from now he will be able to run on the results of the moves that he made.
Now he doesn't care if his poll numbers go down because he's a counterpuncher.
He's a counterpuncher. He wouldn't put Hillary in prison until she tried to put him in prison.
Now she deserves it. It's fair game. He is trying to move to put her in prison.
Yeah. Yeah. And like I said, I think the real benefit of prosecuting Hillary, there are a lot of 90% of the benefit in prosecuting Hillary is just prosecuting Hillary.
The base is hungry for their Shakespearean pound of flesh on this thing, okay? They want justice. They want fairness.
I tell you, it's the same reason why the Republican base hates illegal immigration, not just because these people are coming here illegally committing crimes.
And then getting free tuition and bitching and complaining and committing crimes.
It's like standing in line at Disneyland at Magic Mountain for two hours and you finally get to the front and they open the side door and let a bunch of people out and get in front of you.
They didn't wait at all. It's just, it violates America's sense of fairness, sense of justice.
And it's funny that the social justice warriors, you know, the fairness people on the left don't seem to bother them at all.
Let me ask you this then. I think we have come back from the brink and I think we've now turned the tide in their counter-offensive.
If we recognize the massive censorship, we'll cover next segment. Your ideas about a counter and what we should do.
But, again, Bill Medz will join us here. You'll listen to the On Show show. If you're listening on radio.
You look at Hillary and you look at all these people bad-mouthing the Midwest, bad-mouthing saying the rest of the country doesn't matter.
Only the east and west coast. You know, we don't have the GDP, blah, blah, blah.
Because they cut it off artificially through NAFTA GATT and globalism.
And you really see their hatred for flyover country and bitter clingers.
And then you see her own former campaign manager coming out against her.
You see Joy Bayhard apologizing to the vice president.
I'm seeing signs that they're trying to pull back now and realize they've had their asses handed to them. What do you think?
Yeah, well, the Clinton brand is broken. The Clinton brand is broken.
Hillary Clinton only had influence as long as she could offer the potential for power out of the White House.
Once that has ended, her influence has ended.
And they're just sort of putting her out to posture right now.
We've already heard the news that the Democrats are going to run away from Bill Clinton.
Bill Clinton was their always go-to savior guy.
They're going to run away from Bill Clinton in the future.
And once again, you look at something like PA 18.
Folks, it's not representative of what's going to happen in the midterms.
Because you had a young, fresh-faced Marine basically run mostly on the Trump agenda or on very much Democrat light on the other side.
Exactly. They had to go in there as infiltrators and basically act like they were patriots to get in.
And there was some election fraud.
But let me bring this up, then, since you mentioned it.
Everybody's going to break down about censorship.
The top brains I've talked to, NDC, you name it, said they're going to move against Silicon Valley.
All of it, they already are, the censorship.
But this is all just death rows, or like people throwing a fit.
And that's why they have Georgetown suing me.
And my lawyers say it's not even a real suit. It'll be thrown out.
And my lawyers don't just tell me that, by the way, because we've had some suits they say have some teeth.
Perhaps what's crazy is that it's all insane.
And it really is. I talked to four different top lawyers this week, and they all said they're banging their heads against walls.
This is a death rattle. This is a temper tantrum.
Well, okay, but I still don't like the University of Georgetown having a temper tantrum on me.
It doesn't feel very good.
But how do you expect their death rows, then, to roll out?
Because it's just getting more shrill, more insane, kill Republicans, hashtag kill Scalise, kill, kill, kill, kill.
I mean, they're getting pretty crazy.
Yeah, this is what Donald Trump does.
See, most people think the way you defeat your enemies is by putting your foot on the neck and crushing them.
Unfortunately, you can't do that in politics, not allowed.
So what Donald Trump does is what we call sun-lighting the vampires, okay?
Instead of trying to push his opponents off to the side and silence them, he gives them center stage, puts a mic in their hand,
turns on the lights and says, okay, sing.
And, you know, they can't carry a tune.
And the audience is like, wow, these people can't sing. These people can't sing.
So this is what he does.
He did this with Romney as Secretary of State.
But how do we get them to stop flailing?
How do we get the victims of this brainwashing to realize they can wake up, they can be prosperous,
they don't have to flop around and have death rows along with Hillary?
Yeah, well, I tell you, social media is going to try to quiet us down and silence us.
It's not going to work. It's not going to be effective.
Because the only way they could be effective is that they totally shut us off.
And the negative goodwill from totally shutting us off, they're trying to find a balance by slowing us down.
In other words, I think what they're trying to do is they're not trying to kill us.
They're trying to discourage us so we lose heart.
That's exactly what you are.
They're trying to demoralize us and break our will.
That's why I'm not just saying it.
I'm excited to be in thousands of newspapers a day and them lying about me and Pepe the Frogs shilling me.
My lawyers say we're going to countersue.
He will lose 100%.
I mean, it is totally fraudulent and frivolous.
Doesn't matter. He's got a big fat cat liberal lawyer, though.
Well, he'll get it too. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body.
And for regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture fluorolife as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today. InfoWarsLife.com.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again. You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use Carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfoWarsLife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting. Visit InfoWars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Right here on The Alex Jones Show.
He's trying to stop all that. That's actually very, very classically liberal. He doesn't like Amazon paying zero tax and Apple and all this crap.
He says, bring it back here and knock it off. And they're all freaking out going, you're a Nazi because they're a bunch of greedy scum.
But historian, leading historian, Silicon Valley will decide future election winners unless conservatives do something.
What does Trump, what do we need to do about all the law fair lawsuits against conservatives, libertarians, Fox News for investigating the serious murder of Seth Rich, which, I mean, is just incredible.
They just said, don't question it. You're a conspiracy. We're going to sue you. Same stuff happening to us. Georgetown Law, and my lawyers have never seen anything like it.
They say it'll be summary judgment. It's ridiculous. They wouldn't look at what I say. I mean, what they say, it's defamation in the suit, but you're protected when it's the suit.
So it's a new way to get PR here. It's crazy. So I want to get his take on that. Here is the clip of the historian saying what we all know.
This is coming down. We have to recognize, because all the other censorship, the probing, the manipulations, that was all a one on a record scale.
This is a seven or eight. They're testing. They're getting us ready. This is big. And let's go to this clip.
If we do nothing, the midterms are going to be worse than you already think, a lot worse, because never again will the network platforms in Silicon Valley allow conservative candidates to use them as Donald Trump's campaign used them in 2016.
The sound of heads exploding on November the 9th, 2016 was deafening in Northern California. They couldn't believe that Facebook advertising had been so vital to Trump's success, which it was.
I don't think he would have become president without Facebook. As people think more and more about this, they will, I think, begin to grasp the power of the platforms.
I think the Russia issue is a distraction from the real question, which is the power in our politics of Facebook, YouTube, and the rest.
So we've got to come up with a better answer than self-regulation, because self-regulation, I think, means disaster for conservatives.
How does it simply going to be at a disadvantage? The algorithm is already, in some ways, skewed against far-right elements, for sure. But who decides? Who decides who is alt-right and doesn't belong in the public sphere?
In Charlottesville, there were some pretty open admissions that Silicon Valley chief executives decide, and if they don't like the cuss of your jib, goodbye, you'll be on page 10 of the sur.
Now, that is Stanford University and their free thinking society. The universities all have these to defend free speech. It's never been done before.
But what is happening out of Georgetown, and that's government-funded, most of the university is private, but the law clinic is mainly government-funded, so we're having Congress look at that right now.
We're contacting the alumni as well, and you notice how smart the professor is and the historian. They're saying, I said nobody died, just like they said about Florida, and they don't show a clip, because I didn't say that.
But even if I did, they had to sue me or whatever the families, they said it was hurtful instead of just saying I said it, and then, oh, ban us.
So they're setting the precedent, we're the precedent, and they're not even picking a precedent where they're going to try to ban speech that was mean, but still protected.
They lie and defame me, say I said something I didn't, and then try to set the precedent to not just put you on page 10 of the search to deplatform you.
That's what the suit wants. They say to set a precedent, so people have to recognize this is happening, and they already censored and blocked Trump.
They already dialed him down, but the people overpowered it in 2016.
Now they're going to not just shadow banning, but they're going to just absolutely, Stephen Crowder's banned off Twitter right now for going to have one of those guys go as a robot and saying I identify as a robot.
They don't attack anybody, it just shows, identify as an old shoe, identify as this Lego here. I mean, it's just crazy.
So Bill Mitchell, your take on this, how bad is it going to get, how do we counter it? You said earlier they wanted to moralize this, they want us to give up.
I agree that's it. If we fight, and we keep spreading the word, they can never stop us, but we have to fight.
Yeah, you don't demoralize a bear by poking a bear, you just make the bear mad, and that's what they're doing.
They're just motivating us, they're just encouraging us. One of the things that happens when you have a victory is that the base can lose their hunger because they lose a common enemy because now all of a sudden we're in charge.
They don't have a common enemy. You look at the movie Independence Day, and all these nations are fighting against one another.
All of a sudden the alien spaceships show up, and what happens? They're all suddenly working together.
What the media does with this stuff, and what Silicon Valley is doing with this stuff, is they're giving us a common enemy upon which to focus our fury. So yeah, they're really having the opposite effect.
They're actually going to increase our turnout in the long run when push comes to shove. Not these little special elections, but the main election that's coming up.
Okay, as far as censorship of my show, periscope.tv slash Your Voice America, we're on track this month to do 4 million plays on there.
I mean, it's just crazy. Our Money Night Show did 187,000 plays on periscope, and yet we never trend on periscope.
There are people that have got 10,000 plays with pictures of their cat that trend on periscope. We never trend on periscope.
Also, we'll do things like during the show, the last show the other day, we were at like 3,500 live viewers at any given time, and we're at 3,500 live viewers.
And literally within 30 seconds, we were at 500 live viewers. And everybody's like, we're getting frozen out. We're getting disconnected.
No, that's what everybody tells me. Before this were to censoring me a year ago, I'd have a 500,000 on periscope.
I'd have 2 million on a lot of my videos in my backyard. And then I got a call, and it's off record. So I can't say that Facebook wants you to fly to New York.
And if you just play ball, we'll let you be big. Everybody loves you. But I didn't play ball. So then they dialed me back to where everybody gets frozen.
They get kicked off. Sometimes they'll do it real late at night. I guess the censors aren't up. And then that'll get 300,000 views.
I mean, it's crazy. It's like whack-a-mole. And again, they can say, oh, it's our own platform, but they're not telling people they're doing it.
And then Project Veritas, Project Veritas, they went undercover and they said at Twitter, Facebook, and Google, our job is censoring Alan Jones.
I mean, it's crazy.
Yeah, it's really not just their platform anymore. They really have become sort of a public utility, haven't they?
Yes.
So I think that they could be subject to some legal action to enforce those things. But necessity is a mother of invention.
I think maybe the time has come, and I've said this for a long time, that the current media, even Fox News, has got a maga-shaped hole in their hearts.
They just don't understand us. They don't get where we're coming from. But we do. We understand what the Trump movement is. We understand what the grassroots is.
So maybe it's up to us to create something new. At some point, you can only complain so much about the bad guys where you say, maybe we should set up our own thing and make our own rules.
And so that's one of the things we're doing on my show. We're moving over a lot more to our website, yourvoiceamerica.tv, and we're going to be using a real great back end that nobody can censor us.
Okay, nobody. And also, we're going to be able to have the chat where we can.
That's exactly what we're doing. But then here's the problem. I agree we should do that, like Matt Drudge came in two years ago to say, get out of the electronic ghettos.
Use them to pull people to your own platform. We've built at infowars.com, boards last show, the video feeds, the audio feeds, all that.
And I agree we should do that. Then they go after GAB. Google starts filing stuff to have GAB, and Facebook does, taken down, and de-platformed off their servers, saying, oh, look, there's hate on GAB.
They're going to take their servers. Now, first, they do it to Daily Stormer, who attacks me and my family and all this other crap.
I never said take them down. The point is, they take them down, and everybody goes, oh, good, get rid of those Nazis. And then next, it's us.
So we have to stand for everybody's speech. That means the new Black Panther Party, saying whites are the devil. That means the KKK saying all their crap.
It doesn't mean we agree with it, but we have to stand for their speech, or we all lose it.
Yeah, well, I tell you what, right now, the fact that Democrats are doing this, leftists doing this, does not surprise me.
And they are looking at an extinction level event in November. We could have a supermajority in the Senate.
We could maintain the majority in the House, or even grow the majority in the House.
And if that happens, there's no stopping us. By the end of the Trump presidency in seven years, we're probably going to be looking at a 72 advantage in the Supreme Court for a generation.
We're going to be looking at the implementation of the Trump agenda unhindered. Look how much he got done in the first few years.
That's right. We've got to go to break. Stay there. Bill Mitchell, let's come back and talk about that. Absolutely.
We'll do five more minutes with him than our next guest. I tend to probably open the phones up. There's just so much to cover here.
Before I go any further, just briefly. The biggest thing in this is spreading the links, the articles, doing your own platforms.
And I'm here trying to be a mothership like Drudge does, a smaller mothership to promote everybody, because we hang together and we hang separate.
But we need financial support. We've got $50 off the Alexa Pure Breeze four stage Ion HEPA filter. Other leading brands are $600 to $400.
All the prices are going down. We should sell this for $300. Now the prices going down to manufacturers are like 90 bucks.
So it's an amazing system that doesn't have the markup. It works so good. It is the best deal out there. Alexa Pure Breeze, $50 off infowarstore.com.
We had to pull this special six months ago after just a few days because they sold out of all their units. So act on that.
Also, Myco ZX, the antifungal yeast for the gut, the other side of the probiotic equation, it's 50% off after months of being sold out.
It's now plus because it's stronger and a lower price. Myco ZX, third hour coming up. Please spread the links.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield. Toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies.
With Z Shield and infowarslife.com
You know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white male! You're a white man!
A powerful host? Will he be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls?
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long. The silent majority is no longer silent. This is The War Room.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are back live. Final second with Bill Mitchell. I'm Alex Jones, your host.
And I cannot stress this enough because as libertarians, as positive folks, we don't tend to drama queen about everything.
But you're seeing the worst censorship ever in US history. It's happening worldwide. Apple's moving to communist China to put their cloud based system and all our IDs on it so they can be tax exempt.
Trump lowers the tax from 40 to 15. China goes, we're going to zero, but you've got to be state run. And then it's in Reuters.
Apple just goes, yeah, well, you have to do that here. Let the government run you. So yeah, Chinese intelligence will now run Apple.
And I'm reading this and it's like not even real. So America standing up from the brink. I don't want to be too positive.
I am a positive at the four minutes we have left. Bill Mitchell. You're Mr. Positive. And I agree. Trump's got the same philosophy. I do as well. It's happening.
I was very negative back before. I'm very positive now because we've turned the worm. But in three, four minutes, what are the bad scenarios that we don't stay active and we're not involved?
How could this go bad?
Oh, yeah. Well, you know how it is in football. On any given Sunday, the worst team in the league can beat the best team in the league.
If the best team doesn't take it seriously and doesn't bring their A game, we need to bring our A game.
We need to get motivated as the Trump base to get out there and vote and not only for us to get out and vote, but to get other people of like mind to go out and vote.
And we need to emphasize in these congressional elections, okay? For instance, the one in PA 16, okay?
Sikoni wasn't a sexy candidate. He wasn't a candidate that thrilled or inspired, but I tell you what, he was a vote for the Trump agenda. And Lam was a vote against the Trump agenda. They kind of sold him a pig in a poke out there to the good people of Pennsylvania A team.
But we need to say to people, even if you don't know the name of the person who's running in your district, find it out. But if you get to the voting booth and you're like, who should I vote for?
Vote for the R because it's going to be a vote for the Trump.
Absolutely. But it shows we're winning that the leftist candidates, they're trying to get rid of Pelosi, they're trying to get rid of all these other deadwood.
And now they're trying to get rid of Hillary. And now you look at the CIA leftist arm is running like 50 candidates for Congress. And they're all little pretty boy trying to sound like Trump.
I mean, these are spies in our government, globalist operatives, trying to pose as patriots with no bona fides, no history.
So absolutely vote for no Democrats, period.
It's the beauty of a guy like putting a guy like Lam up. He's got he's got no track record, no voting record. He's a clean slate so people can write on whatever they want.
And that's what they do with Barack Obama.
But you can see the smart look on his face and how he is such a little arrogant Eddie Haskell.
Yeah, yeah, well, this is this is what they do. You know, they like to bring their their messiahs, their savers along. But we need to outwork these guys.
We need to outwork these guys and we need to be on the phones.
Find out who your local representatives are, volunteer, donate, go out there and knock on doors, but put door hangers out there.
We need to outwork them on exactly because in 14 months, we've already seen things turn around a lot, but we've got to now save this win.
Because this is the counterattack. The motivated arrogant slugs are now motivated.
Yeah, well, they're, you know, they're it's like I said, it's an extinction level event.
I mean, if we can take a super majority in the Senate and it's possible because we have at least 10 senators that are in the states that Trump won easily and Trump is pulling very well in those states right now.
Okay, a lot of those are big time risk. As a matter of fact, you have Democrats senators right now in some of these states who all voted against tax reform, which is a tremendous strategic mistake on their part.
And they're actually running 10 to 15 points behind an unnamed candidate.
It's like, you know, they haven't named a candidate yet and the Democrat is already running behind.
So yeah, this thing with the PA 15, PA 18, I'm sorry, they're not going to be able to replicate that elsewhere.
If the Democrats were full of guys like Lam, they'd be in better shape, but they're not.
Also, they could take a few special elections and target everything. They can't when there's hundreds of them happening like they'll be.
They're not raising money. They're dead in the water. And I'll go further, Bill. You know, the Republicans have found they flipped a bunch of machines, thousands of votes.
He only lost by 600. So I don't think we should give this up. We should point out the election fraud.
Oh yeah, we should point out the election fraud. In this case, you know what? I think the GOP wants to win that race.
I think in Alabama, I think they didn't want more. And I think we saw tremendous election.
Bill, we're out of time. Thank you. Amazing.
Thanks. Oh, I think cell force by Info Wars Life.
Cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
Thanks. Okay.
Cell force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from Info Wars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
All right. Ted Malick is going to be joining us. Former head of the Davos Group, on the board of the Davos Group.
Last minute you name it, but a patriot. An anti-globalist inside the globalist camp.
We're going to break down Trump, what's currently happening.
We're also going to open the phones up and take some of your phone calls.
And is that from Space Command? Is that going to be joining us?
I wasn't sure if we was coming on today. If not, it'll be tomorrow.
Okay, yeah. All right, so I'm going to get what's happening with the Pentagon there.
We're going to go to Ted Malick right now, and then we're getting Roger Stone on the phone.
He texted me about 10 minutes ago with huge breaking news dealing with Fiona Hill, the George Soros operative,
that we exposed last year that is involved with McMaster and everybody.
And just as Roger said in January that basically Rex Tillerson had already been fired
and a lot of his duties and power stripped by the president,
that he would be removed in March. You saw that happen exactly as we said.
We also broke it was a pressure bomb, very primitive bombs.
You used a bomb in Austin yesterday. That's now in the news today.
So I'm just telling you, we have the real sources.
And this Fiona Hill individual is the Soros operative in the White House with McMaster,
and that Trump is really angry and is looking to remove them both.
POTUS has pissed at McMaster for speaking to Susan Rice and defending her public ally,
reported on Info Wars at the time.
I just learned that the, and I can't read this part,
is none other than the deputy Fiona Hill towards Soros Info Wars exposed
and how bad she was and how terrible it was that she was in the White House working for McMaster.
So Trump is really cleaning house.
And now Roger has got a chance to talk to the White House
and find out exactly why the president is accelerating the purge right now.
Ted Malik's always got his hair to the ground.
Let's find out from Ted what he thinks of the purges and all the things that are going on.
And the deputy director who wasn't the director McCabe as we knew,
but now out covering up for Hillary, lying to Congress,
lying to the FBI director, lying to the Justice Department head.
And now they're looking to fire him, I guess, ahead of criminal charges.
So we're going to Roger here in just a moment as soon as we get him.
Ted Malik, at this point in history, what's your intel?
I know you've got a lot of high-level sources.
Well, I think what we have is the globalists coming to power finally in the White House.
So Steve Bannon's admission to the original sin of bringing in the establishment
and the globalist part of the Republican Party has proven problematic.
And now finally Trump is taking it back.
And he's removing those people, excising those people from his administration.
I think that's very clear in the case of the Secretary of State,
which many of us predicted three, four months ago.
I did when I was on your show.
We have Pompeo who is certainly completely aligned with the president.
You know, it's basically a Tea Party congressman coming in as Secretary of State.
We've got a woman who's tough on terror coming in to head the CIA.
We should be very pleased by Pompeo.
We should be very pleased, he's the real thing.
And on the economic side, which is my normal beat, we've got Larry Kudlow,
who is very well known, you know, a Reagan supply side economist.
I'm obviously more free trade than some people in the White House like Peter Navarro,
but he's coming around even on that position.
And I think that's going to be a lovely relationship.
Well, yeah, because I'm for free trade, but not when it's unfair.
Wow, let's bring Roger Stone and we'll continue with Ted Malik joining us from London.
People are saying, oh my gosh, you know, Pompeo and this lady, the first woman head.
Under orders of Obama, she ran black sites.
She got to arrest Obama if you're going to arrest her for this.
Just grow up, folks.
I'm against the torture.
Ron Paul's against it.
Rand Paul.
Trump was openly for it because that's what goes on.
Now he doesn't because the Secretary of Defense says it doesn't work well,
more problems than it solves.
I agree.
But don't sit there on a high horse when Obama expanded torture,
hitting it red of it and pointed this lady.
But that's a side issue.
You just heard what Ted Malik was saying.
You've got big breaking news.
We'll send you for a few minutes, Roger, about what the shakeup in the White House is really about
and that the president is finally on the war path.
Well, Alex, as you know, we reported exclusively here at Info Wars last year
that the president was very unhappy with his National Security Director General H.R. McMaster's
meeting with Susan Rice.
And subsequently, by McMaster's public comments, appearing to absolve Rice.
And you broke that three months before.
In fact, give us the date.
You broke here at the very place he was, who he was having dinner with.
He was drunk talking tracks about the president.
The New York Post was giving it.
It didn't run it.
You broke it here three months later.
It did break.
That's right.
Work for war, what you said.
So expand on that.
So now we know, we also reported exclusively last year that H.R. McMaster's top aide was
a globalist named Fiona Hill, who we traced directly to George Soros and the Open and
his Open Society Institute.
Now we have learned that it was Hill who facilitated the conversation between McMaster
and Rice that has gotten McMaster fired.
McMaster is on his way out.
This has been reported publicly, but we now know the reasons.
Trump is furious about McMaster's conversation with Rice, but even matter that McMaster publicly
absolved Rice in the unmasking scandal.
Again, we here at Info Wars first identified Fiona Hill, the globalist leftist Soros insider
who had infiltrated McMaster.
And that's why there's so panic to get us off YouTube, off Google, off Twitter, openly
suing us, Georgetown, Soros back, all of it, because put the article on screen for TV viewers,
please.
We broke this word for word in May 31, 2017.
Bombshell, Soros insider infiltrates Trump administration.
Then it was picked up by Newsmax and then it was hand delivered to the president at
Mar-Lago, we can now reveal, back in the summer of last year.
I mean, that's why they hate us, Roger.
Go ahead.
You're absolutely right, Alex.
You see, when McMaster spoke publicly absolving Rice, somehow those stories and clippings never
got to the president.
Well, when he did see them, he hit the roof.
There's one thing Donald Trump despises above all else and that's disloyalty, and he's clearly
doing house cleaning here.
Now, I like Mike Pompeo.
I don't understand his ongoing criticism of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks, but that aside,
I do think he is more of an anti-interventionist than McMaster clique.
Well, he's an American first and is in line with the president.
That's what matters.
Well, he was a member of the Freedom Caucus when he was in the house.
He was tearing WikiLeaks on during the campaign largely because of their exposure of the corruption
of Hillary Clinton.
This is all about to turn.
Let me remind you that Chairman Nunes sent a letter to Brennan, Clapper, Rice, and others
with a deadline of March 2nd to answer questions about their involvement with the dossier.
We don't know what they have responded, but I think we are about to have a volcanic eruption.
How big is it, McCabe?
The word is they're getting ready for criminal charges.
McCabe is the centerpiece of the criminal conspiracy to utilize the fake dossier fabricated
by a foreign agent in league with a bunch of Russians and utilize it as evidence.
McCabe is the chief perp.
He's the guy who directed and approved the use of our tax dollars for payments to GPS
viewers.
Is there any evidence that people are building that Mueller has rolled over to the president
and we see some of these new indictments and these new files looking at Democrats?
I don't think Mueller was with the president all along like something, but I think there's
signs that he's starting to hedge his bets because no evidence was found enrolling.
Well, it's possible that Mueller will bring a few relatively low level indictments against
Democrats, but we don't know that Mueller is McCabe's target.
We don't know that McCabe has been targeted by Mueller.
McCabe may be targeted by the Trump Justice Department and not the special.
I think that's far more likely.
Well, they're talking about that right now.
Wow, Roger Stone, bombshell information.
I'm going to come back from break and get Ted Malik's take on this, but just briefly with
me, what do we expect to happen with Fiona Hill?
How long till she's out?
How long until McMaster, the reported alcoholic nincompoop, reportedly he is just a total
nincompoop controlled by the neocons who can't find his ass with both hands?
How long until these idiots are out of the White House?
We'll be back infowars.com, newswars.com, Ted Malik.com.
Stay with us.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon, I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked,
fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and served.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com,
this is Dan Pilla.
Do you have the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Heart and Body Extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
We do the super mail and the super female vitality, big changes, a lot of energy.
We've gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, they've got a ton of money there.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products from InfoWarsLife.
Let's go to Devin and Florida. Devin and Florida, you're on the air.
Great, hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, super male vitality, secret swell, five minute infusion, I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the type of listener that makes it all possible. Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest. That's amazing.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible. My morning was fantastic.
I love the guys, I love the InfoWars through and I just want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence.
Just buy it, we'll love it. I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at InfoWarsLife.com.
It's the win-win InfoWarsLife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Alright, we're going to do the Battle of the Hour with Ted Malick. I've been inside Davos, been on the board of directors of it, can really flesh out the battle between the globalists in America and where it's going and Trump throwing globalists overboard now and really making this big turn.
I'm watching out with Roger Stone with this big breaking news. The president learned that the moles were through a Soros operative inside of the White House through McMaster and has now culling the whole thing out.
In two minutes, Roger, break down why these people are departing, why he's gotten rid of Cone, why is the Secretary of State all of it and get into this Soros operative lady that's the lynchpin do it all and again you were saying the word is that McMaster is about to be toast.
He's clearly next on the hit list, Alex. First of all, we cannot underestimate the importance of the appointment of Larry Kudlow as the President's Chief Economic Advisor.
Many believe Kudlow should have had this appointment from the very beginning, but the globalists working internally were able to block him.
Well, let's be clear, you told me early on when he was President-elect that you were pushing Larry Kudlow.
I was among those definitely pushing Larry. Larry Kudlow was the individual who helped the President formulate what was clearly the most dynamic and pro-growth of any of the Republican candidates.
In the tax cut, the President is following the advice and game plan laid out by Kudlow.
Now, the President has finally thrown the globalist Goldman Sachs insider, Gary Cone, who boasted, by the way, that he could have had the same job under Hillary Clinton had she been elected to the curb and has brought in a real Trump supporter, a real Reaganite, someone who is committed to economic growth.
This cannot be underestimated in terms of its importance.
Now in the foreign policy realm, if the President cashiers McMaster, who is always an odd fit given the fact that he came from a nonprofit financed by the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ford Foundation, and yes, George Soros, prior to his position in the White House, and replace him with someone who is a non-interventionist, more aligned with Pompeo and the President,
this will be a major, major internal coup. The President has the right to reassemble his hand, and he's doing so with so much, much better people.
So, it took months for this to come to a head. How long do you think McMaster and Fiona Hill can stay in, and who else seems to be thrown overboard?
Well, we know that the President first took note of Fiona Hill because of our reporting here at Info Force. Now he's put two and two together and figured out, and we've confirmed this this morning, that Fiona Hill was the one who engineered his communications with Susan Rice,
the former National Security Advisor for Barack Obama, and the woman who ran the criminal unmasking operation and is knee-heat deep in the entire dossier fiasco.
I believe McMaster's days are literally numbered. The real question will be whether or not he is replaced by somebody better.
There is a major report by Jack Pasobeck about a longtime John McCain associate who is maneuvering for this job. This is Washington intrigue at its very best.
That's right, but now a direct pipeline to the Obama operatives that did the unmasking, the criminal spying, the lying, all of it, setting up the PP gate, all of it, the stay-behind network and the up-behind Justice Department,
a direct pipeline to them through McMaster and Fiona Hill right back to Obama, still trying to control policy from his office two miles away. Incredible.
We'll get all of tomorrow's news today. Thanks to Roger Stone. Thank you, Roger.
I'll be on the War Room at 5th Eastern today with an update.
All right, let's go back to Ted Mountain for the rest of the hour. Ted, thanks for sitting there. We have that breaking news, but I'm sure you can dial into all that.
We'll get us some other subjects in the next segment, but you're taking what you just heard.
Well, as usual, Roger is absolutely spot on. I can tell you that it looks like Attorney General Sessions is actually going to fire McCabe tomorrow,
and that will mean that McCabe will not get his large U.S. government pension. In other words, he'll get the justice he deserves.
Fiona Hill is likely to be out on her ass in the next day or two. McMaster may have 30 days left. We all know his time is like the clock.
It's ticking away. Trump is actually interviewing, as Roger suggests, people for that position until he's talked to a couple of generals,
and I know personally he's talking and has talked to John Bolton, among others.
So this is really a period of deep change in the White House. I don't think this is ever going to end until Trump gets what he wants and the people he wants in those slots.
But we can't be too confident. How will the global strike back with all this stormy Daniels crap?
Well, I think that can be put to the side. That's just a kind of a fatuation of CNN. I guess it's now a pornography network as well as a so-called fake news network.
I mean, the bigger story for me, Alex, and one I know you and your readers and listeners are very keen on, is this story of the dossier,
where I call the plot to destroy Trump. And indeed, I have a book coming out on that. It'll be out in the next 30 or 45 days.
It basically puts all the dots together to tell the story about how the Democrats fashion, in fact, nothing less than a coup d'etat of our President Donald Trump.
And I read some excerpts and know what you're doing. This book is key for Congress and the media and everybody have a blueprint for prosecution.
This is way beyond the Nunez memo.
Oh, yeah. No, this is the big 30,000-foot view. It connects all of the dots. I've been researching it very confidentially and talking to all kinds of people for the better part of 60 to 90 days.
And we have been pulling it together. And I'm very happy to say I just saw the final type print and it's going to press.
You know, I also know you're a theologian amongst your other degrees. What's the Bible verse? We'll look it up where you dig a pit for your brother, you fall into it.
I mean, you can really see how they built this whole thing to destroy Trump, but basically just mirrored it off what they'd actually done, and now they've stepped in a bear trap.
Well, indeed, and this GPS fusion firm, of course, the one that had the nefarious ideas hired the Christopher Steele. In fact, what I disclosed in this book that this has not been, I think, discussed anywhere else,
GPS fusion also did work for one President, Barack Obama, when he was looking for opposition research on Mitt Romney.
That's right. And we're going to break and talk about this. I want to get something to Russia.
What do you think about Trump going for this thing out of England? And you're over there in England when we come back. Is there any truth to the Russians, nerve-gassing?
I don't see any proof. So why would Trump launch all these sanctions and things? It seems like he's doing so many good things, but on this end, he's kind of buying in the whole neocon fever swamp.
Well, there was a significant attack in this very lovely Cathedral City, Salisbury in England, where a former GRU Soviet intelligence officer and his daughter were somehow affected with nerve gas.
What the name of that nerve gas is, I think, has not been disclosed. The Brits called it, but we don't know what it is.
So I'm going to hear from you in England if there's any validity in this and where this is going. But Ted Malik, straight ahead, tedmalik.com, find all those books there. I'm Alex Jones.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
This is a two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online, hbextract.com. Heart and Body Extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
The reason that Full Wars Live has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family. I take this. My family takes this.
And then it funds the operation, but the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere. So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good. The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually have just run out of my superfemale. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again. Very exciting, feeling great, looking good. And I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the superfemale is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2. It's got a five star rating. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Research across the board is clear. In fact, it's certified. When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream, but if you contribute to blood clots and heart attacks.
That's why the Last Surgeon General's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super blue fluoride-free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula. It's loaded with good halogen iodine, some of the bad halogen fluoride. Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include silo tall, peppermint oil, iodine, nano silver and more. Learn more about infowarslife super blue toothpaste at infowarslife.com and support the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and awards shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance, all to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Alright, Ted Malik is a former Davos board member inside the globalist author and he's on with us to talk about the big battle going on in the world. What's happening with the unelected EU, how it's trying to kill Brexit. We were getting into this former GRU colonel, this Russian intelligence
who had been in London for over a decade, he was out in the countryside, comes out of a little shop, little grocery store and then he and his daughter found nerve gas. They say something like VX, they won't say what.
And then they're like, we're sure it's the Russians, we're sure it's the Russians. Why would the Russians do this when it lets England everybody do sanctions and then Trump launches sanctions?
We need Russian resources, Russian's christianing in, Russia's helped fight radical Islam, that's what Trump's instincts are. So I'm really worried about the neocons and all this and Mueller and all the rest of it.
I hope this isn't Trump going along with this because he wants to look tough on Russia. We've got all these articles here saying this is worse than during some of the worst parts of the Cold War.
So Washington sanctions, Russia individuals and entities, US Treasury, and we've gone over all of that. But just to say with no evidence, you know, we think you did this and to kind of go along with all the Russians influence the election.
There are Russian election companies, the Democrats are more famous than Republicans. And that's why 80% of the funding even the FBI's report was Democrats going and hiring bot companies in Russia.
Everybody's got these bot companies, they bought them all over the world. To then just get around election law here, just do it here. It's under the Federal Elections Commission.
I'm telling listeners that, I'm sure most of them know it. But you go to Russia, you go to South Africa, England. I mean, Russian bots were relatively small.
They were involved in 80% roughly were pro-Hillary and then they had anti-Trump demonstrations when he was a candidate, when he was president-elect.
Michael Moore attended one in New York. It doesn't mean Michael Moore's a Russian agent. He's a globalist dirtbag agent. So the facts are, this is insane.
And so now sanctions on Russia, because they have companies that people can go and pay to push stuff on Facebook. I mean, there are thousands and thousands of companies in Texas you can hire.
There's hundreds in Austin that will push stuff on Facebook and Twitter for you and YouTube. So to say like, if some Russian company hired an American company to push a candidate in Russia, does that mean the US is involved?
This is just crazy. And you've got the CIA, the leftists, you've got George Soros and Ukraine and Russia trying to overthrow their elections and, you know, the CIA funded rock band Pussy Riot and all this crap.
And I just don't want a new Cold War with Russia. It's just stupid. And it's not because I'm a Russian agent. I'm an anti-globalist and I want nation-states.
And Russia deserves to get out of globalism itself. Like all these other kind of, you know, they claim realignments in Spain, realignments in Catalan, realignments in Greece, realignments in Italy, Czech Republic, in Hungary, in Romania, in Poland, in Reykjavik,
there in Iceland and in the Brexit is all Russian. Well, you know what? That's ridiculous. The Russians can barely even get the streetlights working all over across their giant country.
I mean, this is a load of BS. Okay, the toilets are overflowing in Moscow. They're trying to hold their crap together from George Soros and the globalists trying to raid them.
I know you're an American first-year Ted Malik. You see the EU as the real authoritarian threat with Junker, the Nazi air, saying, we'll break up America. We'll crush Trump a year ago.
He ain't laughing now, is he? But they say it's anti-Semitic to say globalists by Trump or you or I when the Chinese dictators, the top globalists now along with Junker being number two, wouldn't you say?
And then Soros being number three. I mean, is that an accurate statement as a big insider like yourself?
Can you create any international response to the term globalism is just the counter to nationalism. It doesn't have any racial, ethnic, religious connotation whatsoever.
So that's a total misnomer. I mean, I think we need a realistic view on Russia. I mean, we shouldn't have a benign view.
We shouldn't view them as somehow either our ideal partner or an every-way and attractive alternative, nor should we view them as radically evil.
I mean, there have been a number of suspicious deaths in the UK, 14 to be exact, over the last period of time of Russians and Russian agents.
So they do have an issue in the UK in the living and go deaths with Polonia. I mean, you really think that's the Russians.
There's a lot of these are Rothschild fronts and others come out in court who've served out their usefulness.
Well, indeed. So we need to get behind it. We need to see the intelligence. We can't just point a finger.
There are all kinds of rogue elements, even in Russia. There's organized crime. There are breakaway groups.
Well, that's key. What you said, because I've studied the demographics and the political Russia is just like the U.S. overrun with anti-fuck globalist leftist.
I mean, the idea that Russia is this monolithic evil force is just not what the demographic show.
Well, you give them too much credit by painting them into this giant bear. They weren't, you know, the same superpower we were even during the Cold War.
So this has suggested that, you know, when everything in Russia has been halved in this period since that they are anywhere near being that kind of giant is just factually.
So let me ask you this then. What you predicted 10 years ago, but the CIA connections we have predicted six, seven years ago, that Alex, it's all going to implode.
Nationalism is coming back. Globalism is being abandoned. You know, the people want it. We're going to stop it because there are big factions in the governments that are good.
And the globalists now realize the countervailing winds here that they're going into the winds. Why are you seeing such an explosion of nationalism and a rediscovery of capitalism worldwide?
What's pushing? Is it just purely the human spirit or what is the prime moving forces behind it?
Well, I think there's a convergence of a number of things. The first thing is basically a repudiation of what globalization and globalism has provided.
So there's an economic travail and people are just dissatisfied.
So globalism sucks.
Yeah, to put it loosely, I mean, economically, it hasn't produced. Culturally, it is also ripped apart. Our societies, our families, our cultures, so people are repudiating it on that level.
You talk about the spiritual realm, one that I'm keenly interested in. It's also a denial of everything that has to do with tradition, that has to do with our traditional religions.
And people are motivated in moving back towards those means.
That's my next question. You're making so many good points. I am not against the average liberal. I'm not against gay people. I don't care.
Literally, I'm sick of them acting like I'm against them. But the leftist and MSNBC, they all say they hate families. They hate Christians.
They come over and they see I have my family and they go, F your family, or I thought you lost your family in this whole custody battle.
And they try to celebrate that I'm this loser. And other conservatives, I know, say, no, liberals tell them that, you know, how long is it until your family is broken up?
Why do they hate family so much?
Well, because since biblical times or before that, actually in Aristotle, if you read Aristotle, you realize that the family is the building block of society.
It's one of the key intermediating factors between the individual and the state. If you don't have strong families, the state usurps all power and actually displaces then every other institution.
And we're left with nothing but a monolithic gray state, which is right.
The family is the base unit of humanity. You take that, the people fall.
And they want to eradicate that. So I wrote a piece that was very controversial, I guess was last year appeared in bright but suggesting on research that 17 of the current EU leaders have no children.
Is that just a surprise? Or is that actually a commitment? Do they want us, in fact, to have no children, to have no families, to have no extended families so that they can control us?
That's right. And people aren't bad if they don't have children. But when you look at 25 states and 17 don't have kids and people walk up and hold foods and say you shouldn't have three, four kids.
I just think they're miserable people that are so selfish they see us and they just want to pull it down.
It's a very, very sad mentality. But that's where the left and the globalist world has taken us.
And to some extent this battle is still being fought day in and day out in Europe.
It's by no means one, even though we can celebrate the Italian victories last week and we go look to the next election in the next European country up and coming.
And we can say in 2019, hopefully the European Union will be a fraction of its former self and that there's a chance that some of those power blocks will fall.
That Germany is in fact itself, even though with its new grand coalition government, you know, inwardly focused and no longer able to pull over.
All right, Ted Malik, when we come back, let's talk about an even bigger issue.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
And on that, quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Our own GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
It is available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation.
The combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formulae is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Bio True Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Bio True Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemistry.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formulae available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, super male vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured.
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war at infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war!
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
950 ton pedestrian bridge collapsed about 20 minutes ago at Florida International University reports of multiple deaths and injuries.
Our prayers go out to everybody and that's too bad and I certainly, wow, just a prelude of a big earthquake out in California or Mount St. Helens blows up in Oregon or in Washington,
but should we ban bridges?
Because you want to ban guns, jihadis run over people with cars, do you ban the cars?
England keeps trying to ban butcher knives to make you get a license because they have a lot of knife crime.
But see, most people die from bridge collapse, it's just out of the news in hours.
But it's some craved person on a bunch of Prozac type drugs.
Well, it goes on forever and all gun owners are then to blame.
So all of us that ever drove over a bridge, all of us that ever drove in a car, all of us that ever paid taxes for highways,
we killed the people in Florida according to that broken logic.
Of course, we didn't kill them. We all know the world's a dangerous place. We try to make it as safe as possible.
We know our infrastructure's in big trouble like President Trump's been saying.
Somebody built that bridge 10 years ago shoddily, prosecute them because there's no statute of limitations on murder.
But think about how crazy that is when a jihadi, they're not talking about not letting people rent trucks in Europe.
They put up these freedom barriers everywhere.
It's never how it's a Muslim, it's all about we don't have enough barriers up.
So that's just a side issue, a real tragedy there. Another article on inforwars.com and newswars.com right now.
In private dims panic over Pennsylvania win, well, they stole the election.
GOPs confirm they flipped in a bunch of districts, thousands of votes per district, tens of thousands of stolen.
They just flipped the votes for the Democrat.
But he wouldn't have had any hope if he hadn't posed as a Republican. So that's scaring him.
That's a Kit Daniels article up on inforwars.com. I want to ask Ted Malik though about how they're going to strike back.
We're going to have them back up on his new books out, look forward to carrying it.
So that's the directive of the crew. I want to make sure we carry it in the bookstore, inforwars.com.
But I want to ask him in closing in the seven, eight minutes we have left about how do we stop the plot to destroy the rebirth of this Republic?
Before we do that, I've got to find our operation and I do it by selling really hot products.
Best water filtration, best air filtration, we have the Alexa Pure Breeze Ion four-stage filter, HEPA, you name it.
Leading competitors used to be about 1,000. Now they're got about 500 because the miniaturization of things are happening.
This is 150 with the sale we're running. It's $50 off and I can tell you it's like 90 bucks for the unit.
And so we're making like 30 bucks or making like 30 bucks, whatever.
You cannot get these better filters for your house.
This will do a big room or two, get four or five of these for your house.
When the red light comes on, it means it's gotten a little bit of dust. You take that off the front filter, cut four filters.
It's amazing. Get your Alexa Pure Breeze today, $50 off the already lowest price system out there.
It can roof 99.97 of airborne toxins and contaminants from your home, especially your children.
Everybody deserves this. We have Alexa Pure Breeze, Pro Pure and other great water filtration systems as well.
And we have our new Myco ZX Plus, even stronger. I signed a bigger contract with the top producer.
So I get it for lower price and stronger, totally organic.
It is anti yeast mold and fungus in the gut. It's great to have probiotics and we have those as well.
Biome defense and other systems that are really high quality, but that's for bacteria, to have good bacteria.
This is to knock out the bad fungus yeast mold, the Candida.
And it's incredible, folks, what it does for people who read the reviews at infowarslife.com, 50% off, but not for long.
Because it looks like it'll sell out in the next two weeks at that price.
So I'm going to have to stop that in a few days and then we go back to regular price.
Also, the fluoride-free 4 to 5-cold silver and iodine superblows have been sold out.
It's now back in stock, infowarsstore.com, and 25% off brain force.
Okay, going back to Ted Malik from Ted Malik.com.
Now, you heard my question here. Maybe disagree with me, but I think we should ban bridges now.
Because everything's got to be perfect, ban sports, contact sports, ban tag, ban best friends.
Some of them might not have a best friend, ban families, ban the word mother and father.
We're not joking. This is going on. It's like a science fiction book.
But how they'll try to strike back. Georgetown's suing me.
My lawyers have looked at it. They say it is the biggest PR stunt they've ever seen.
It would overturn the First Amendment. It's meant to drag me through the mud.
They lie about what I said about what happened in Charlottesville.
That's their model to ban things. We need to move against this.
The president needs to move. You're an expert in these areas.
What do you think we can do to stop the massive censorship rollout, the likes of which we've never seen?
So the first thing we need to do when you do it day in and day out,
and there are others like you doing it in other places on the internet, certainly not in mainstream media,
that is expose the truth. There's nothing as powerful and as all eye-opening as the truth.
So we have to fight the Info War. We have to expose the truth.
We have to bring those people who have wronged the system, who have been involved in injustice.
We have to bring them to justice. And that will include some rather high-level people, frankly,
in the FBI, in the DOJ, and in the previous administration.
I think we need, and this is, you know, Trump is already finding it difficult to do,
but we have to defund and scale back what we call the deep state.
We have to drain the swamp. That is an activity that is basically a full-time, all-out war.
And there are all kinds of forces that mitigate against doing that to make it difficult to do,
both in the establishment right and in the left, who want to continue that deep state.
We have to defund it. And I think the key thing we have to do in the long term is basically back Trump.
I mean, I said nine months ago on BBC that Trump will run for re-election,
that will be around for more than four years, and that the motto of that re-election campaign will keep America great.
You did say that on the show, and on BBC.
As a built-in assumption, in other words, that he will achieve in four years what he set out to do to make America great again,
to take our country back, and in those next four years, we will do everything to keep its greatness, to re-assert American exceptionalism.
So, I mean, that's a very tough agenda to do those four things I just mentioned,
and it's going to take all of us working all time and over time.
Ted Malik, getting into the real sophisticated mode of international systems and politics,
they always claim, oh, we don't want the left-wing to get too powerful, the right-wing to get too powerful.
But the globalists really just want exploitive, crony capitalist systems they control to vertically integrate and create a world of renters.
They don't want competition, and that's their real crime, because it kills innovation.
It creates a new serfdom, a new feudalism that hobbles not just the public, but the entitled so-called elites.
But the argument of, we don't want the right-wing and the populace to get too powerful,
let's kind of wink-wink some of the Trump administration, let it get censored some,
because it won't matter, they'll still have their speech.
It's too powerful of the grassroots Tea Party that does this.
It's the left trying to extinct the balance, and I don't even agree with this balance thing, and coming to the middle and all that.
It's the left going for broke authoritarianism.
It's got to be extinguished when it comes to them being able to censor and block people.
You can't just let them engage in all this, and it's massive, it's sustained.
They've radicalized the average lepers on the street with their vicious gibbering monsters,
and people need to really get aggressive.
We need antitrust against the big tech giants.
We need an internet bill of rights, and we need people to take this really, really seriously
when these executives and their minions are making fun of people's free speech and saying,
well, we ban Alex Jones and anybody with an American flag.
I mean, there's a real America hate by all these tech minions,
and they need to then go somewhere outside the U.S. if they hate it so much.
I don't understand why what's made them so powerful they hate.
I mean, what is that?
Well, they are a combination of socialists when it comes to social party, social politics,
and they are largely transnationalists.
They're globalists, and they don't believe in America.
They don't believe in American exceptionalism.
They don't believe in markets.
They want to have a monopoly.
They want to pay taxes.
You see them moving to places like Ireland and lower rent places,
so that they don't have to pay American taxes,
and they're trying to basically keep conservative points of view,
right-of-center points of view, off the airwaves, off the internet,
and to censor the freedom of speech.
And now they're censoring prominent liberals that say, hey, we should be free speech.
They're banning them off YouTube and Twitter.
I mean, this is going to end up being everybody.
Ted Mallink, TedMallink.com.
Look forward to talking to you in about a month or so when your new book comes out.
Thank you so much.
Great. Thanks, Alex.
All right, I'm going to get out of here right now,
because the fourth hour is about to start with Anthony Comey,
who always knocks it out of the park.
There's some big things I didn't get into, like the big anti-gun rallies
where people like our good friend from Vermont had bodyguards with guns,
but we can't have guns.
Bernie Sanders, I get guns and bodyguards,
but you don't like the Soviet Union.
I'm in the government. I have guns. You don't, little people.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot
and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener,
I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks,
for our big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots,
help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on,
and if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves,
we can take our country back.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States
with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, Carnivore,
for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture
of the very best strains in fluorolife-advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolife everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics
and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here,
is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at m4store.com,
you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist
and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
We now take you live to the fight.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas,
transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
And Anthony Comey, a syndicated radio host, the head of compound media.
He's been taking over here just a few minutes,
but I wanted to play these clips because I didn't get to it during my three hours.
And I just have to get to this.
Bernie Sanders, white people don't know what it's like
to be poor, and I did my honeymoon in the 70s
when you had to be a KGB operative to go to Russia.
I got married to Russia to go see what it's really like to stand in line
for maybe a week to get some sausages or something.
And I'm on record when I go to the store and I go,
you don't need 30 types of deodorant.
You don't need, well, I guess you're under Soviet stuff.
You never got strawberries, but the point is,
I mean, that's the guy who has a whack job.
I bankrupt colleges. I drive $200,000 or $300,000 cars.
I got five houses, one of them is $2 million.
But you need to give me your money.
So he shows up with these anti-gun deals
with a bunch of other Democrats with armed guards around him.
That's how it is in the Soviet Union.
I'm an important person. I get to have armed guards.
You don't, little people.
Little people don't know what it's like to be able to be defended.
He just does this like he's Moses.
He's like the Messiah.
Oh, he's Andy.
I got a little gray hair. It means I'm smart.
So here it is. Here it is.
I want to thank young people for having courage
to do what Congress is not doing.
But let's show it with the armed guards.
For radio listeners off the table, here's the video.
President, I want to thank the young people throughout this country
who have the courage to do what the United States Congress is not doing.
And that is to lead us forward in a way to lower the slaughter
that we are seeing from coastal areas.
Okay, so let's stop right there now. Let's go to the next one.
That's him in the Senate. Here's Bernie.
We need to end the so-called gun show loophole.
That's private sales. You can give your son a gun.
Or when you die, I guess your wife can't have them.
Calls for ending sale of assault style weapons, all semi-autos.
But look closely in the shot. Here it is.
We have got to end the so-called gun show loophole.
We're going to get these damn Americans guns and teach them.
That means that people should not be able to buy weapons
without going through a background check.
And in my view, among many other things,
we have got to understand that a sole-style weapons,
military weapons are designed for one thing,
and that is to kill people.
And in my view, we should end the sale and distribution
of those types of new guns.
I am absolutely delighted and proud that you are here today.
What you are doing is of national significance.
You're leading this country in the right direction.
Thank you all.
Again, there's the video. There's several of them.
But there he is from different video shots.
He had at least six police officers with guns around him.
Semi-automatics that he wants banned.
And then, of course, M&M, we'll play this next clip,
which says the NRA is bad.
The people introducing say this.
But he's got a conviction for pistol-lipping somebody
with an illegal gun.
Too dumb to even go out and get, you know,
in his state, the license.
And most states don't even have a license.
So to talk about a moron, here's M&M.
They control just me and control the puppets.
People having guns is being not puppets.
I'm on a pistol whip you. I got a gun conviction.
Because I'm a criminal. I want you to not have a gun
so I can have my way with you.
Because I got a small brain and I'm a fake punk thug.
And I'm the dumbest person in the whole world.
I was a human.
Give me your guns, give me your guns,
or I'll have him pistol whip you.
I got it on guns, but you don't.
M&M's a complete moron.
The word is he's got like a 70 IQ, can't wipe his ass.
You're in a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive
and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic
acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber
that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients,
and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality,
organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Hello, everybody.
Welcome, Anthony Kumi.
I hear the honor of being in at Infowars.com.
I was literally just wiping tears from my eyes
from watching Alex doing his M&M.
It was hilarious.
Who doesn't love Alex Jones?
I read things.
I read things on social media on a daily basis.
I get all kinds of crap.
What are you doing on Infowars, Anthony?
What are you doing?
Alex Jones says that Martians are coming.
It's like, oh, my God,
you've obviously never even watched the man.
So just damn entertaining, man.
I'm crying.
The impression, Alex has to take that on the road
is M&M impression.
Welcome.
And again, I thank the fine people at Infowars
for having me on.
Alex hit on it right at the end of the show right there,
the gun issue.
All those students, the anti-Second Amendment people,
the people like Bernie, his Bernie impression,
was killing me, too.
Getting out there and saying that, oh, boy,
we need all the law-abiding gun owners,
all those people that own guns,
hundreds of millions of people,
and hundreds of millions of guns.
And we need them to...
We need to write new laws for them.
You know, the people that haven't done anything wrong,
except legally own guns
and exercise their Second Amendment right,
those are the people that we really have to take guns away from.
The actual problems that we have,
which I mean anybody with an ounce of common sense
over the past few decades,
has seen why we have issues like we do in this country today.
The gun issue just being one of them.
But we could see it.
This has been gearing up for so long.
I have called it, I don't know,
I don't think this is a little too much for the air.
The pusification of America.
I think that's a big thing.
Men, boy, young men not being allowed to actually be men,
being emasculated by feminism and politically correct.
These are all things that have contributed
to so many of the problems we have in this country today.
And again, they just want to snatch away our rights.
The Second Amendment is a great instance of this
because it's so easy.
It's an actual mechanism.
It's a thing.
You have to have a thing.
It's not a pursuit of happiness.
It's not the freedom of speech where just speaking is your right.
You need an actual mechanism, a gun.
So when you make the focus on taking that away,
it sounds like you're just taking away a machine, an object.
And it's so much easier to do that
than it is to take away some other ideology that makes up a right.
So you take the gun away and people go,
what, we're just limiting the guns.
It's a thing.
No, you're taking away a right.
A right that is just as important and inalienable
to us as Americans as the freedom of speech,
as the freedom to not have people bash your door in
and go through your belongings.
But like I said, when it's an actual mechanism,
a thing, a tangible object,
it makes it so much easier for these people
to try to take it away from you.
So we saw the schools had their day, walkout day.
I remember these things when I was in school.
Not for this.
I remember like we walked out because we wanted smoking in schools.
We wanted to be able to smoke in the schools.
So we said, ah, we're walking out and we walked out.
We sat on the front lawn of the school
and we all lit up our cigarettes.
Real cool.
All right.
Look, I know I'm no kid here,
but I hear some of you out there going,
what was playing Babba-ba-babba,
Ding ding ding, no.
It wasn't that long ago but I believe the
Molly Hatchet and Charlie Daniels were playing.
But we were out there on the lawn and smokin our cigarettes
and we're sitting around and we're going,
yeah man, we're gonna show the teachers
and the principal, man, we're not going back in there
until we get to smoke on campus.
Well, the principle comes out.
It's got a little bullhorn.
Anybody who isn't back in the school in three minutes
is suspended, your grades for this,
you're gonna go down a grade and you just go,
and all of these, whoa, we're gonna fight the math.
We're like, all right, we better get back in.
I think social studies is starting.
We weren't treated like precious little snowflakes
by the administration that we went to when I went to school.
And I hate sounding like that,
but I guess that's why you always sound like,
why are you, get off my lawn, you damn kids,
but we've gone to this point where everything,
a young person says, is this gold nugget of knowledge.
Everything a young person says is to be taken
at 100% face value for being brilliant and amazing
and we must listen.
Sometimes kids are just uninformed dopes.
I'm not saying that's the instance here.
I'm not saying, I'm not picking any specific cause
that they've rallied behind.
I'm just saying, in my life experience,
in my life experience, I have taken note
that kids are usually stupid.
I don't mean uneducated, you could go to school,
you could crack a book, you could learn,
you could get good grades,
but there is something that only life experience brings you.
That I am not seeing in the young people
that are being hailed as heroic for going out and speaking.
I mean, some of them are very articulate,
some of them have valid points,
but every single young person that goes out
and holds up a sign is not an Alvin Einstein.
Yes, I did say Alvin.
It's part of the joke.
But the media just gets on them
and hails every one of them as brilliant, brilliant.
And they just don't have life experience.
And that's why for decades we have heard this.
Decades of demonstrations and protests
and high schools and college campus students
getting out there and fighting the powers that be.
And this gets brought up every single time.
Well, you watch out because these are the people
that are gonna be voting in a few years.
And it never really comes to fruition
that this giant change happens
because these young people grew up and now they're voting.
You know why?
Because they had a little bit more life experience
and realized it was crap what they were saying
most of the time, utter and complete nonsense.
They went out, they left school, they got jobs.
They looked at their paycheck and went, what?
I remember I was protesting to get more
of the workers' money away to the government
so they could help people.
And I was supposed to be the guy
that starts voting and changes everything.
And then they get their paycheck and go,
hey, screw that.
They're taking all my work 40 hours
and they're taking all my money.
That's what happens.
They don't grow up and remain the same naive little,
little tykes that they were when they were protesting.
They grow up and realize a lot of what I said
was utter nonsense.
And I have been educated by the school of life.
And it has changed my opinion and that's who I am
now when I vote and maybe even run for office.
So we'll just see this happen over and over and over again.
You're in the spectrum.
We'll be back in a moment, Anthony Comey, and at infowars.com.
You can find and snag your information
just by walking past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards,
even your work ID badge.
ID Stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID
blocking technology over 12 years ago.
ID Stronghold's wallets, sleeves, and badge holders
are trusted by the US military
and the executive office of the president.
Something the competitors can't say.
Secure your identity and save 10%
by using coupon code MAGIC at checkout
for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
ID Stronghold.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut,
presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life,
NASA PAC technology, bacon, fully cooked,
fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon
or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon.
10 year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com,
fullycookedbacon.com.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device
that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV,
even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV
should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Faketv.com.
In Full Wars Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best
for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live, active culture, floral life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast,
the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated
turmeric formula we could come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally
have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together,
we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies
with ZShield in FullWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
News, analysis, reports.
It's the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Anthony Koumia.
Yes, welcome back.
AnthonyKoumiaInfoWars.com.
My goodness, Hollywood, the Petri dish on the West Coast
that is Hollywood.
Boy, the glamour just kind of gone off of that.
The Tinseltown shine that was once the amazing Hollywood.
Here she comes, the lovely Greta Gabbo
at the premiere of her new motion pictures
here at Graven's Chinese Theatre.
Remember the old glamour of Hollywood,
the perception we had that it was just
made up of these amazing people, Tinseltown,
they called it, because it was so glittery, sparkly.
We didn't know anything about the actors and actresses.
We didn't want to know anything about the actors
and actresses.
They'd occasionally do talk shows or award shows.
Like, we all watch the Oscars, and it just
doesn't have that sheen on it that it used to,
that those people were just amazing.
They were just amazing.
Put up on pedestals.
Put up on pedestals.
They were special.
They were better than us.
We could say it, people.
Back in those days, watching Chuck Heston walking up
to a podium, I'd like to present the next award
for best actor.
You're like, ah, that guy's better than me.
And then with the advent of social media
and the never-ending cry for attention
that these attention whores have in Hollywood,
they started spouting their ideology and their beliefs
to us.
It wasn't good enough that they were on our motion picture
screens.
When we'd go to the movie house to see the latest movie
by Robert Taylor, that was even before my time.
But they were up there.
They were on our TV screens.
They were in our entertainment magazines.
And that just wasn't enough for them.
We didn't know this.
There wasn't any other outlet years ago
when we didn't know about these actors and actresses.
All we knew was what they wanted us to know,
what their publicist or the studios would
want us to know about them.
So we didn't really know.
And then social media, this thing
comes out where everyone with any hair-brained idea
or ridiculous ideology or whatever it is
can now tell the world what they think.
And Hollywood was no exception.
The celebrities got on there and just started,
here's what I think.
Here's how you should live your life, people.
And we looked, and we read, and we watched videos,
and we said, wow, what a bunch of jerks.
What a bunch of idiots.
They're not special anymore.
They're not better than us, are they?
And since then, the Hollywood, the amazing glitter
of Tinseltown has just been reduced to a Petri dish that
is with a bacteria culture in it.
That's pretty much what Hollywood is now,
a bacteria culture festering in a Petri dish.
There they are, the amazing stars of yesteryear,
ladies and gentlemen, making their way down the red carpet.
For a new motion picture, it's Marilyn Monroe.
Let's give her a big hand.
Yes, she is.
Rumors have it, she's good friends with the Kennedys.
What happened?
There, there's the yesteryear actresses.
And the modern day, it's just a catastrophe.
Well, but I digress.
We all saw the Academy Awards.
We saw Frances McDormand.
Frances McDormand, she won an award
for three billboards outside of Blotty Blotty Blot.
And during her speech, she goes, we, well, we,
I give you two words, ladies and gentlemen, inclusion rider.
And the people in the audience are like, woo!
And everyone at home went, huh, what?
You say inclusion rider.
People go, huh, what?
You say, shark, we got a panic on our hands.
On the 4th of July.
Inclusion rider, no one knew what it was, huh, what?
So we learned what it was.
Simply put, it's a stipulation that actors and actresses
can ask or demand, I demand of you,
to have inserted into their contracts, which
would require a certain level of diversity
among the film's cast and crew.
So the act, let me put this straight.
The talking puppet head, the puppet head,
that recites the words that are written for them
in front of a camera that's run by other people,
on a set that's decorated by other people,
on an entire production that's paid for by other people,
can demand who they want running the equipment
and the rest of the surrounding cast around them.
How pompous is this?
Wouldn't you, if you're putting millions and millions
of dollars into a motion picture, into a project,
or think about it, anything, anything that you do.
You're taking your money, and you're putting it in.
You want the best possible result from your investment.
Do you want someone coming up to you
and telling you who should be doing the job?
By the way, based on nothing but their ethnic, sexual,
or religious preferences, I'll tell you what I would say.
Oops, can't say it here.
It's a dirty word.
It starts with F, ends with U, because that's
what I'd say if I got an inclusion rider by a talking
puppet that told me I should staff my production, my investment,
with people that they think are the right people for the job.
Screw a resume.
Screw the fact that there are people
that have a vast experience in doing the job properly
and correctly.
We have seen motion pictures over the course
of a century in this country.
Over a century that have been deemed brilliant, genius,
classic productions, because the person putting the production
together knew through experience who
to put in the various jobs based on nothing
but their expertise at that job.
But now, we have something called an inclusion rider,
which Francis McDormand put out.
And it was received with the accolades
by the Hollywood community that she, nothing but another employee
on somebody else's set, she says that people have to adhere
to what the talking puppet says and hire based on nothing,
nothing but race, religion, or sex.
It's a catastrophe out there.
It's a catastrophe.
Thank God for places like infowars.com and compound media.
Be back in a moment.
The answer to being in control of your own health care
is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients
that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347
for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Polistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
It's an o-brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride,
pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only $0.02 per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water
filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems
using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just
encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarsstore.com.
And I want to thank everybody that has.
But we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies.
And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Let's go to Devin in Florida.
Devin in Florida, you're on the air.
Great.
Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product, and I got to say,
they're amazing.
Thank you.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it.
Because I've got caveman, superman of vitality,
secret swell, vitamin and infusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you.
Wow.
You're the type of listener that makes it all possible.
Which pharmaceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning, and I swear to you,
I felt incredible.
Like, I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic, and I love you guys.
I love the InfoWars through.
And I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity
to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it.
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing
you find in our products at InfoWarsLife.com.
It's a win-win, InfoWarsLife.com.
Fuel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme
product by InfoWarsLife.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process
and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion,
caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes
like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now,
while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal
helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes
to help digest fats and carbohydrates,
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use Carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios,
you're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Anthony Cumia.
Maybe the bad, bad thing.
Thank you.
Hey, introducing MycoZX Plus from InfoWarsLife,
introductory price of $27.48.
That's 50% off with all the dangerous toxins
and new sources of food and drinks that come out to the world.
It's becoming more important to make sure
your gut is in check.
That's why our team of dedicated scientists
work hard to create a new and advanced formula
to build upon your gut health, MycoZX Plus.
MycoZX Plus is a unique natural formula
designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast
and fungal organisms, made from wild-crafted
and organically certified herbs.
MycoZX Plus is formulated for maximum effectiveness.
MycoZX Plus contains incredible ingredients
in one powerful supplement that supports
healthy microbiol balance in the body,
made with specifically selected ingredients
that focus on intestinal yeast.
My goodness, all the stuff going on inside us.
Supports a healthy digestive tract,
adhereses internal yeast.
And our formula is fueled by unique ingredients
that power up its potential, including
grapefruit seed extract, a super potent anti-oxidant.
That's what it is.
It looked like anti-toxin, and it could be.
Oh, Paul Diarco Bark.
Paul Diarco Bark.
I knew him back in the Cincinnati.
Paul Diarco Bark, known to possess microbalancing properties,
grape seed extract, a marked activity
on a yeast and high anti-oxidant potential, garlic bulb.
Don't put those in your lamps.
Well-known preservative agent in food
and organic moringa leaf.
Yes, traditionally used as an internal microbe
cleanse, and even more.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body
until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus.
Now from Infowars Store.
Wow, a lot of words.
That's a lot of words.
But it sounds like it helps out your, what?
Your intestines.
Good, but I need help.
I watched the news.
Also, they're tied in knots.
They're tied in knots, my people.
You think I'm done with Hollywood?
Not at all.
Finally, we have heard every time a celebrity is talking
about Trump, and an election comes up,
or Trump does something, you hear these celebrities go,
I'm out of here.
I'm moving.
What's the list?
Whoopie, Goldberg, Barbara Streisand, Rosie O'Donnell,
that rotund woman from girls.
All of them.
They all say they're bugging out.
They're leaving the US.
And then they never leave.
We're still just saddled with them for years and years
and years.
Well, thank goodness, Matt Damon.
Matt Damon is stepping up.
Good for you.
I salute Matt Damon.
Now get the hell out.
He's moving to Australia.
Meet Diamond.
Look, it's Meet Diamond.
He's going down under, as they say,
moving his family to Australia because of Donald Trump.
Yes.
Matt Damon, moving to Australia.
Damon 47 reportedly has purchased property in Byron Bay,
New South Wales, according to Sydney's Sunday Telegraph.
The home next door to a place owned by Chris Hemsworth.
So I guess this is like the, what is this,
the Beverly Hills of Australia?
Australian Beverly Hills, listen to his story
about a man named Jed, poor Matt Nee.
I don't know.
I'll pitch that next comedy central meeting.
Damon is telling his friends and colleagues in Hollywood
that he's moving his family to Australia
because the activist actor disagrees with Trump's policies.
One of Trump's biggest campaigning points
was immigration and the wall, right?
The wall and immigration.
Australia pretty much has no immigration.
You literally have to be Matt Damon to move to Australia.
Australia goes, who wants to get in?
Who's this guy?
Nah, I'll say, nah, nah, we're not letting him in.
And then Matt Damon is like, hey, I'm Matt Damon.
I'm a multi-gazillionaire.
I'm an actor.
I will help your country with image and tourism maybe.
Maybe I'll film a movie here.
That'll be nice.
Ah, Matt Damon, sure, let him in.
I've been the guy.
Let him in.
And Matt Damon moves to Australia.
But if he doesn't like Trump, boy,
why is he moving to a country that does not allow people
to just wall sin, won't sing Matilda,
doesn't allow them to wall sin and set up camp as Australians?
They don't allow it.
First of all, they exile you to an island,
some smaller island.
And then they try to get other countries to take you.
Obama agreed to take a bunch of Australian illegal immigrants.
And then when Trump got into office, he goes, yeah, no.
We don't want him.
And they're like, but Obama agreed to it.
Obama agreed.
Two days ago, I saw a rig that'll hold those illegals.
You want to get out of here?
Talk to me.
Road Warrior, anyone?
Great, great movie.
So like they throw people out.
And as far as a wall goes, let me fill you in on something.
As far as a wall goes, it's called the Pacific Ocean.
The only reason Australia doesn't have a wall
is because it's called the Great Barrier Reef.
That's Australia's wall.
So they have no immigration and a giant natural moat
full of sharks, full of glass-like coral and sharks
and vast expanses of ocean that keep people off
of their beloved island, nation, continent.
So that's where Matt Damon wants to go,
because he doesn't agree with Trump's policies of, look,
maybe we'll keep some.
We want to build a wall here, but not on the north border.
Don't worry.
You don't like any of those policies,
but it'll move to a place where they literally
exile illegals to an island and then just try to throw them
somewhere else.
And their wall is a natural barrier no one
could possibly penetrate.
So Matt, God bless.
Good job.
Get the hell out.
No way, cow.
No way.
Look at this.
The Australian government has introduced the toughest border
protection measures ever, ever.
And again, that natural barrier is just unbelievable.
We hear about it a lot when they say,
when people say, well, Australia, as far as guns go,
they got rid of all the guns.
They had a buyback program.
They bought all the guns back, and they
haven't had a mass shooting in, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Again, they don't have borders that are easily
crossed by smugglers.
It's not 1650, where someone could come up
with a sailing ship full of spice.
We have two gigantic borders, one of which
to the north is full of the bunch of politically correct
sissies, I say.
Pardon me.
I've met some nice Canadians.
But for the most part, Jesus, relax.
We know what we're doing down here.
And Mexico, where drugs and guns and Mexicans and everything
else flies across the border.
So I don't think it would work for us quite as well.
I think the proverbial bad guys would still
be getting their hands on guns.
Australia, Matt Damon in Australia,
with the most amazing border wall ever, the Pacific Ocean.
Yeah, his family probably will be very safe there,
because the Australian government, as far as immigration,
knows exactly what they're doing.
Be back in moments.
Don't you leave.
Anthony Kumi at infowars.com.
Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production
by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine
overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100%
efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen
species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused
by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen
species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force
are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability
to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species
and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Info Wars Life and infowarslife.com
is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional
supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense
plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price,
this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best
source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
The reason Info Wars Life has five star ratings
on major third party sites is because I want products
I'm going to use for my family.
I take this.
My family takes this.
And then it funds the operation with the most
hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing
you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference.
I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones
that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my super female.
I had a few bottles at my house, and I've
been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good.
And I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously, it's super female.
It's amazing.
I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2, if there's one product that I would say
is life changing, that I would suggest it's nascent iodine,
Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five star rating.
It's a win-win at infowarslife.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout
by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality, natural
ingredients, such as valerian root extract, l-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power
of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that
goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You are listening to an infowars.com front line report.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
And now, your host, Anthony Cumia.
Welcome.
Welcome back.
Thank you, of course, to AlexJonesInfoWars.com
for allowing me, Anthony Cumia, on their waves again.
Love it.
Love doing the show.
We touched on this a little earlier in the show here.
The kids, they had their walkout.
They had their big school walkout.
And some were arguing they should do a because the left
is hilarious when they demonstrate,
when they have their protests and stuff.
It's so ragged and all over the place.
They never seem to be able to focus on any one thing.
It's like, oh, we're going to protest school shootings.
And then there's transgender for equal toilets.
You look at the signs.
You're like, what the hell?
Just a big conglomeration of idiocy.
And they just can't focus on any one thing.
So the walkout, of course, turned into something
that people wanted to call the walkup.
They were saying, hey, if we walk up to these people,
these loners in the schools, the people that
are bullied and whatnot, and hang out with them,
and talk to them, and get to know them,
maybe they won't decide to shoot a school up.
And they won't feel so alienated from the cool kids,
from the cool kids.
So they decided to do this walkup thing.
So I was looking at some of the coverage on that.
And I saw a picture that was quite telling.
One school decided they gave every kid 17 post-it notes
to represent the 17 people killed in the school in Florida.
And what they would do is write something nice about somebody
on it, and then stick the post-it note on their locker.
Sounds nice and pleasant, a nice thing.
You go to your locker, and you're like, oh, look, somebody
likes me.
And I saw a picture of this.
And it showed a bunch of the lockers,
a line of lockers in the post-it notes on it.
And the first thing I thought was
to count the amount of post-it notes on each of the lockers.
Some had upwards of 20.
Others had two.
And all I could think was the person with two
was going to feel resentment and feel alienated and maybe
want to shoot the person with 20.
And by the way, years ago when this came up,
when it was called Valentine's Day,
because that's pretty much what this is.
You'd sit in the class.
I remember this again.
Kids, let me tiptoe down memory lane with you again.
When I was in school, Valentine's Day would roll around.
We'd all sit in our respective desks.
And girls and guys would hand Valentine cards
to someone they liked or thought was pretty or whatever.
And some kids just had a stack, stack of Valentine's.
The pretty girl, the popular boys, it all have stacks.
And then the other people, some of the other people,
would have a normal amount that you would think,
I brought five and I got five.
Wow, this is kind of nice.
And then there was the kid that got none, none Valentine's.
He was called the weirdo.
The weirdo got none.
And he would probably end up being one of the guys that
would have shot up a school.
But more likely than that, all that happened was people
learned that there is no such thing really as total equality,
especially when it comes to somebody's subjective opinion
of who they like, who they want to be with, and around,
who they find attractive.
All of these things come into play
when you're a child handing out a Valentine's Day card.
And this is the way it was for years and years and years.
You learn something called rejection, which, oh my goodness,
if you don't learn about rejection very early in life,
you are in for a very big disappointment
when you get a little older.
Because most of life consists of disappointment.
So you learn about disappointment.
And then somebody got the bright idea a few decades ago
that Valentine's Day is a terrible, terrible thing.
And that we should do away with the ability for kids
to come and give out Valentine's to their people
they want to give Valentine's to.
So everyone got one or no one got one.
And this has been the battle cry for decades now.
And it just makes kids vulnerable to losing their minds
when they don't get what they want.
And what we see happening with this walk up,
when they post things on the lockers, is the same thing.
But they've been trained to not be
able to deal with stuff like this.
See, these are the same kids that don't get Valentine's
anymore, or they get the same Valentine everyone gets.
They're not allowed to have parties.
They're not allowed to hang out with a group that's
considered bullying if you just hang out with a group of people
that you want to hang out with.
So when you put stickers on the locker,
it sounds like a good idea, but these kids
have been raised in a way that they're not
ready to walk up to their three-sticker locker
when the locker next to it has 20 stickers on it.
There you go.
Look at the poor bastard with three.
And then there's other ones.
And you know.
I know.
Look, some things change and change and change
over the course of the years.
Others don't.
Kids are cruel little sons of bees.
And the kid with the three is going to feel bad.
And like I said, without the ability
to deal with it, with having faced disappointment,
he's going to lose his mind.
So while this might have been a noble thought,
I think it's going to fail miserably
when it comes down to somebody cracking open their two
or three-sticker locker.
I don't even think I went to my locker.
I would have been a three-sticker locker guy.
I was the guy that just, I was just trying to make it through.
I didn't care about friends or popularity or who I was hanging.
I had my friends outside of school,
but I was not known in school.
I don't think I ever went to a class picture.
I don't think there's a class picture that exists of me
past maybe sixth grade.
Because I just didn't, I didn't feel like I fit in with anybody.
And I didn't really want to.
But I saw what happened.
There were the popular kids and the kids that weren't popular.
And that's just the way kids think.
And it's part of like a human, it's ingrained in your DNA.
It's instinctual.
It's some kind of breeding mechanism.
But there are always going to be kids that don't get 20
stickers on their lockers.
And they're going to feel kind of bad about it, I think.
Another thing that we're insane about these days
is the unwanted kiss on American Idol.
This was great.
I guess Katy Perry kissed a young gentleman.
He was probably 19 years old, I guess, a guitar player and singer.
And he talked about how he had never been kissed before.
So she was going to kiss him on the cheek.
And she turned her head and kissed him smack on the lips.
And any other time in history, any other time in history,
this would have been nothing.
You'd have just been like, oh, OK, whatever.
Well, it's a big thing now.
And Katy seems to be in trouble.
Because this boy was saving his first kiss
for a wonderful moment later in life,
like when he finally actually fell in love with somebody,
I guess.
He's 19 and never been kissed.
We have a word for that.
And look, look, whatever his beliefs are, it's fantastic.
But this never would have been anything.
And now it's harassment.
Katy Perry kisses a 19-year-old.
And it's harassment.
That's where we're reciting these days.
That's the United States of America
that we're living in in 2018.
Everything's harassment.
Everything's a problem.
Everything needs to be addressed.
No one would have, you know, let's say Greta Gabba would
have kissed a man, a man on the lips,
in front of Grammys Chinese Theater.
There's a lucky young fan.
That's what it would have been back in the day.
But now everything is harassment.
And it's changing the dynamic of how we deal with each other
sexually and socially.
Thank you so much.
Infowars.com, Alex Jones.
I'm Anthony Comea at compoundmedia.com.
That's me.
See you next time.
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children
that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows
and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president
to endorse the resistance, all to make them march,
make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism
and xenophobia and homophobia, to smash windows, burn cars,
shut down interstates and airports,
bully and terrorize the law-abiding,
until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs
and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse
for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country
and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies
with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America,
and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Hey, how you doing?
Good, brother.
Just recently started using your products.
Everything you said about them is correct.
Me and my wife both use a lot of them,
and it made a lot of changes in our lives here.
Well, thank you, brother, it's because it also funds
our operation, but doing that, I know
I've got to have the highest quality.
Supermail vitality was developed
to activate your body's own natural processes.
Instead of using synthetic chemicals.
We do the supermail and the superfemale vitality,
big changes, a lot of energy.
We've gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots,
they've got a ton of money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs,
harvested around the planet, and then concentrated,
or maximum potency.
They want to stun and dumb down, and energy drinks and stuff
just cover that up for a while, but then burn you out.
In my experience, where stuff that gets your glands
naturally going goes right to the source.
So, it's pretty exciting, and I love it.
Visit infowarsalife.com today to secure your supermail vitality
and other powerful products from InfoWars Life.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
