I have never had a greater sense of urgency. Everywhere I look, massive draconian censorship
is taking place. Just look at this on my Twitter feed. Mainstream news, ladies and
gentlemen. Teacher punished taught kids to think about free speech. David Knight broke
that down. It's everywhere. Then I've got mainstream news headlines here. It's time
to regulate the internet and shut down free speech. The Atlantic. It just gets crazier.
Look at this. Daily caller. It's a footnote in the Washington Post. The top investigator
into the Seth Rich murder was shot twice in the back. He got away with his doxened badger
hand in his arms and then the person began trying to run him over a Marine with a department
of energy. Yeah, when the hitman comes, that's that's what they are. And so it's just next
level. I don't want to get this individual on. He's been the prominent lawyer, putting
out the rewards, investigating, doing all this back when the family wanted that. It's
still an unsolved murder and evidence mounts that there were laptops and the DNC and cover-ups
and all this stuff going on. The family suing Fox News for questioning. It's called Alex
Jones Fox News sued for conspiracy theories. New York Daily News. Trans like that. Asking
questions why Jones will probably think it's a big deal. This lawyer got shot twice in
the back. He thought he was at a document pickup. And when he went under the orange
cone to get the documents, he got shot twice in the back. He ran with his dog in his arms
in the feller coming after him, who's been arrested, didn't stop sort of running over
him. But he jumped between cars after being rammed twice and lived tough cookie. The Daily
Caller. It's also posted on info wars, former Marine charge and shooting hit and run of
controversial Seth Rich investigator. I love how if you investigate your controversial,
I guess the Daily Caller wants to say that's they don't get sued. Now investigating. See
is controversial. Yeah, it's controversial. He got shot twice in the back and survived
by a Marine with the Department of Energy. Uh huh. Sure. I told everybody when the hit
men come, there's sheep dipped veterans inside government agencies. That's the hit men in
this country. But it's no big deal. He just shot him twice in the back trying to run over
him twice. No big deal. Move along. Everything's fine. Nothing's going on with Seth Rich's
death either. He only got shot a couple times back to don't question it. I will sue you.
Thousands of papers celebrating Fox Fox is getting punished. Sean Hannity is getting
punished. Alex Jones is getting punished. So WikiLeaks says Seth Rich was probably their
source, but they won't release it. So he was mad about him stealing the nomination from
him. So his family was suspicious when he first got killed. It's an open murder investigation
and news organizations investigated, get sued and people that go to parking garages to get
documents get shot twice in the back. But it's no big deal. Let's move along now, shouldn't
we? I agree. I think no one should investigate Seth Rich. Well, I mean, it is an open murder,
but I want to sound fair and balanced. It's very kooky to investigate a high level DNC
lawyer who reportedly was being investigated for being one of the main leakers, getting
shot in the back multiple times in broad daylight and nothing happens. Doherty worked for Berkman
on the Rich investigation. Isn't that interesting? A helper inside helping on the investigation.
But there's nothing going on here. Top Seth Rich investigator shot twice in the back like
Seth Rich. Do not investigate. I agree with CNN. There's nothing suspicious, nothing,
nothing. I'm mainstream now. Do not investigate. Nothing going on.
Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency
and protection. Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular
engines. Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria.
Much like a cellular engine overhaul, because when your mitochondria don't run at 100%
efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that
aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals. Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. We've got a unbelievably jam-packed transmission
today. Austin bombing suspect Mark Anthony Condit used exotic batteries and explosives
sources say, and he reportedly worked for a local computer company. We now have the
identity of the individuals. Fears of more explosives remain after Austin bombing suspect
blows himself up. Now, there's only been one photo circulated in the media. It's the same
photo of the 23-year-old that is in our article by Mirkel Phelan on infowars.com. Identity
of Austin bombing suspect revealed, but our intrepid team was able to get an exclusive
photo that no one else has. I've sent it out on Twitter of this gentleman, the suspect
probably is the bomber, blew himself up reportedly, with his family. We have blurred out his sisters
and his parents. I also have law enforcement sources that realize that out in the countryside
outside Austin, they use the same shooting range as his sister. And that was on her Facebook
as well until that was taken down. So exclusive photo of the individual at infowars.com. We
just tweeted it out at Real Alex Jones on Twitter as well. We also have exclusive footage
just minutes after the bomb was detonated while police were shooting into the vehicle,
reportedly at least one officer, shot out of one of our crew members' apartment windows.
So that is how close all of this is here in Austin, Texas. And that is from about 150
yards there with the bomb squad and the ambulances and the police and part of the highway, shut
down. Again, if you're a radio listener, you obviously can't see this. It's not important
for us to always add. We are a radio-based slash TV transmission. I was the first person
in talk radio to not just have a document cam or just have a webcam, but to actually
start doing a full video shoot so I could show everybody what I was saying. Because
I would say I've got a picture of UN signs put up at the National Parks and under the
treaty it says the UN then controls the administration of the parks and 100 mile buffer zones in
all areas. Well, people wouldn't believe me. So I started in about 1997 live streaming
sometimes but only to show certain documents because it was so expensive to pay for my
own bandwidth. Then YouTube came along. So that's the reason I'm mentioning the fact
that we are radio slash television. So I would just select presentations maybe 10, 20 minutes
at a time out of a three hour show where I would say, okay, get ready, I'll have it
up on InfoWars. We're going to live stream this or we're going to post this video and
then I would get giant bills. But that's what made me start pushing to make more money
and sell films and DVDs and books and videos and t-shirts was so I could pay for the bandwidth.
Then along came YouTube along came all that. So we don't pay for the bandwidth anymore
and we can reach hundreds of millions and billions. Now they realize that you've done
that I've done that they're shutting it off. But we've built our own system at infowars.com
forward slash show and news wars as well. So bookmark that because they are really trying
to block us. And speaking of that, I've got a stack of news here with massive censorship
we're going to get into after stock disaster Facebook still worth more than Coke Pepsi McDonald's
combined lawmakers zero in on Zuckerberg and as I said on Sunday and as I said on Monday,
this is going to hurt Facebook because when the left acted like this analytics company
that works for hundreds of campaigns around the world, piratical, mercenary, seedy, when
they act like it's the ultimate evil to harvest millions of names that are open source and
then contact them for political purposes, Facebook use orders of magnitude more sophisticated
than this. So the media is trying to hurt Trump and trying to make sure conservatives
and libertarians and nationalists and populists don't have access to databases that are public
and in that you're bringing down the whole golden goose morons. And that's fine with
me because we don't data mine. We just direct contact people by email if you sign up at,
you know, our newsletter infowars.com forward slash newsletter. And we've got our articles
on info wars. And if you want to share them, please do. We put videos out. We do very limited
advertising as well. And all of ours is very, very ethical. We just target conservative
and libertarian news sites with some of the supplement ads and ads for the show. But just
to watch the left eat its own and eat its tail, like the old snake eating its tail is
comical. I mean, they just lost $40 something billion and got totally discredited. And now
everybody's looking at what they do because if you're going to go after the company in
England for stealing maybe a lollipop while Zuckerberg is gang raping everybody's privacy
and selling it to whoever will take it. Again, it's house of cards. You morons pulled a
card out of a house of cards. You just never think a few steps ahead. And now the left is
piling on with all these lawsuits. So Facebook will censor conservatives and it's having
the short term effect massive censorship, massive dial down of our reach, massive blocking
of anything Trump related ahead of the 2018 midterms that are just imminent. So if Trump
and if libertarians and of America and if the Congress and of the state houses and of
all of us don't start trespassing, and if we don't start getting involved and raising
alarm, we're all going to be censored into oblivion and they're going to steal the midterms
and start the impeachment and try to reverse the reboot of this country. So that's where
we stand. And that's where we are. Now let me tell you what's coming up. I'm going to
get more into the Austin bomber suspect. I put that in a little ass because it looks
it's pretty conclusive. And the police did a really great job really move quick for how
bad this was. There still be some bombs out there. Somebody should still have caution.
We're going to get into Biden threatening to physically attack the president again. You've
got a report former Marine charge and shooting hit and run of controversial Seth Rich investigator.
So the lawyer investigating Seth Rich is in a DC parking garage thinking he's doing a
data pickup for information. Get shot twice in the back and run over lives and they're
calling it a conspiracy theory. If you think it's suspicious, okay, it's that's next level
too. And then the big story DC officials flock to doomsday camps. What do they know that
we don't stories on info wars.com. It's links to mainstream news reporting it. We're going
to be breaking that down. Stuff is really, really building up. And don't worry. Anderson
Cooper, he says that the claim that there's a democratic plot to remove Trump is a massive
conspiracy theory close quote. So they're saying we're the deep state's going to get
you. We're going to bring you down. Mueller is going to get you. And then if people say
hey, there's a plot inside the leftist arm of the FBI to remove Trump, they go, that's
ridiculous. What next, you're going to say the Seth Rich investigator getting shot twice
in the back and run over. Next, you're going to say that's suspicious. I mean, like it's
suspicious that Seth Rich got shot. That's suspicious at all. He didn't even get shot
actually. Fine. I'll be mainstream news. Don't Seth Rich's doesn't even exist. Abracadabra.
Oh, by the way, Samsung now has a new program that reportedly erases your memories. That's
on infowars.com. It erases your memories so you can watch the same show again. Now, whether
that works or not, we're talking mind control areas. We're getting into here. So it is just
a total overwhelming amount of intel. Flashback, not even Nazi Germany charged finish man who
had a Hitler dog and had it howl Hitler. But in the UK of your anti Hitler, but make a
Hitler joke you're facing. It's one year in prison. I'm sorry. That was six months is
the minimum count. Daxula. Dantula. He's facing that. That's just handled. He's, he's facing
it. Hey, his name is offensive to vampires. Maybe that's another year in prison. This
is really happening. This is real tyranny. Attempting to take over. We're in the middle
of a global war for liberty. It's happening. An infowars is the frontline fully cooked ready
to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf
life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the
pack bacon or warm and served, life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon,
tips free at fully cooked bacon.com, fully cooked bacon.com. The answer to being in control
of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self pay patients
that come together to share in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts
begin at $107 a month and 347 for families. Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available
for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar,
spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can
alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes
has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling
everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody
over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to
keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two month supply today by calling
866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you
can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best
tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet. For more than a decade, my favorite coffee
has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their
unique shade grown Arabica beans. We have now managed to secure the sought after beans
in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic
coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without
the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this
is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas
Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going
to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com. The reason infowarslife has five star ratings
on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family. I
take this, my family takes this and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore
truthful information you're going to find anywhere. So what you find in our news is
the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. If I ever forget to take
them like I'll I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good. The nascent iodine is one
of the ones that was life changing for me. Yeah, I've actually have just run out of my
super female. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the
gym once again. Very exciting, feeling great, looking good. And I know my hair is luxurious
once again. So obviously the super female is amazing. I love it. Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would
suggest it's nascent iodine survival shield X2. It's got a five star rating. It's a win
win infowarslife.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I'm Alex Jones, your host. Thank you so much for joining us. We are now 20
minutes into this global transmission Wednesday, the 21st day of March, 2018. Dr. Grippleby
and Studio coming up at the bottom of the next hour to cover massive new eugenics developments,
world government announcements, just really critical intel. Roger Stone will be here with
us to give us the latest in the fourth hour. If you just joined us, obviously the Austin
bomber in the early morning hours, the main suspect, blew himself up in some type of shootout
with the police. We have exclusive footage shot on one of the members of our crew out
of his apartment window. And we're going to have more of that footage uploaded to Twitter,
Facebook, you name it, but also our own servers. That is just minutes after the confrontation,
the shootout and the bomb that he reportedly self detonated took his life. And of course
we know the individual's name, Mark Anthony Condit. You can learn all the details. We
have an exclusive photo of him and his family on infowars.com. And we've tweeted it out
at real Alex Jones for anyone who would like to see that. There's only one other photo
out there. And we have the other photo and the exclusive footage for the news media even
got there. We're talking just seconds after our crew members Scott heard the gunshots
of the explosion getting to the window and videotaping it for about 150 yards away. And
we are uploading that video to Twitter. They will probably block it. Even if it was paint
drying, they would block it because they can't let folks know what a real news agency we
are. Now we keep breaking exclusives after exclusives after exclusives because we're
not lazy and we're also geographically located to be able to cover a lot of news just on
the ground. So if you look at how he looked when he went into the FedEx to mail a bomb
and they think it's him and that he may have accomplices, he was wearing what looks like
a blonde wig. He has a dark brown or black hair, but he could have accomplices and he
could be a patsy. I mean, we don't know basically anything is in the realm of reason, but there
are mentally ill people in this world. There are deranged people with a score to settle.
And I can tell you the person bringing the package into FedEx does not look like Mark
Anthony Condit. It's just in his build and a lot of things. And the blonde hair does
look like a wig, does have that kind of fake look. But who knows, clearly the tell will
continue to watch this as it unfolds. We're not calling the devices some of them not sophisticated
but complex, but the triggering mechanism was pressure, mousetrap. Other than send the
charge to the detonation device and he reportedly worked for a computer company dealing with
devices and things. So that may be where he had to know how. That said, hey, we need a
five-day waiting period on bombs. Oh, sorry. You can't stop anybody, even the low IQ man
will build a bomb. So you can't stop somebody from getting a baseball bat at Dick's Sporting
Goods and going to meet somebody's brains. In fact, blunt objects are used to kill more
people every year than firearms are in the US on average. Just like knives. I can walk
in and buy a whole set of knives and go out and kill 20 people if I want to with them.
You'll see stabbings in China and Japan where one guy will kill 10, 15, 16 people with a
gun. And I know you as listeners understand this logic, but a lot of people don't want
to have these logical discussions. In fact, they're talking about restricting who can
rent big trucks in Europe because the freedom barriers being put up around public places
aren't stopping these lamas from just driving a mile down the road and getting around the
barrier. So you can't stop evil people by restricting everybody. You have to go after
evil people. And the answer is good guys with guns. In fact, I did a report on it yesterday.
I think I left the articles in my office or in that podcast studio because I shot a video
with Doof. Somebody can pull me the name of the good cop in Maryland who was in one minute
responded to a school shooter who was able to shoot two people, but wasn't able to kill
them. And the cop responded in 60 seconds. Maryland school shooting killed by deputy
in 60 seconds versus Florida stand down. Hero in Maryland school shooting. None other than
good guy with a gun. And we've got his name and all that information there on the site.
So we have Great Mills High School, Maryland where the shooting took place where again
somebody not in the school anymore came back to try to kill his girlfriend and others shot
her shot the boyfriend and was reportedly going to continue shooting people when deputy
Blaine gas kill killed him. Of course, he's on the SWAT team. So instead you've got the
guy in Florida saying he didn't do anything wrong. Scott Peterson standing down a bunch
of other deputies standing down being political. This is the guy that trained people in the
school for school emergencies. And he stood there. I mean, just make sure whoever wants
to be there actually wants to protect people because most police, most general citizens
aren't looking to die. But somebody's trying to kill young people, kids. I mean, the instinct
is you're going to, you're going to kill them. You're going to, you're going to charge them.
I mean, most people I know wouldn't even wouldn't even try to take cover. They just start killing
if they catch somebody trying to kill kids. I mean, how are they breeding the instinct
to fight out of us? I just don't understand it. So, but that's what the globalists want.
They want us to roll over to everything and live in their gun free zones where all the
crime takes place. Mexico, one of the highest crime rates in the world behind Brazil, total
gun bans. Brazil set to pass a second amendment. The guy in the lead to be president is going
to do it. And you know what? They get guns in the culture there. They get them in the
hands of the people. You will see the crime rate plummet. It's happened in so many cities,
so many towns. So, that's an amazing piece of news. Now, we're going to go to break.
I'm going to come back with the huge attacks on free speech, the latest North Korean news,
the really big news, DC officials flock to doomsday camps. What does that mean for the
rest of us? Told you that was going on. They're getting ready for martial law. And it's left
us doing it. We've analyzed who's doing it. The left is gearing up for war while openly
calling for it. And former Marine charged in shooting, hitting a run of controversial
Seth Rich investigator, shot twice in the back. He still ran, tried to run over him,
got away with his dog in his arms. That's coming up, but nothing suspicious about that.
There's another person shot in the back. I mean, I wonder if this guy keeps quiet. I
think he is being sued, isn't he? He's being sued right now along with Fox News for questioning.
So I guess bullets didn't shut him up. He's a pretty tough guy. We'll tell you about him
in a minute coming up. Here's the deal. We got a limited supply of the newest product,
my dad, a retired old surgeon and dentist. Well, he's retiring this year. He's giving
up his license. I don't know why that matters. One is my dad came up with the top toothpaste
company that does organic and empowered with iodine, colloidal silver. It's a best seller.
He said immune gargle is great because you can swallow it. You can spray it in your mouth.
It's concentrated. There's $3 of product in here. That's a lot. It's $9.95. And immune
gargle is amazing. It's got iodine. It's got colloidal silver. It's got a special type
of silver in it that's really souped up. It's amazing. It's also good for topical stuff.
Tastes good. It's got the peppermint in it and so much more. So get your immune gargle.
Turns out it's going to sell out like in just four or five days at the current rate and
it's discounted with lung cleanse as well. It's really amazing in fourwarslife.com.
Thank you so much for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
We're calling 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one.
My problem is not enough news. My problem is just too much news. I got my video list right here.
I want to get into the government, the left openly training for doomsday and just martial law,
Viggo Mortensen's road level collapse because they're willing to do that rather than let us have the country
and be free market. They want control. They got to make it like North Korea.
They got to collapse it like Venezuela. It's got to be a hell of a lot like Cuba.
They will do it because they want total control.
DC officials flock to doomsday camps. What do they know that we don't know?
I first told folks nine years ago that most of the big Hollywood producers were evacuating to New Zealand or Tasmania,
some now to Kauai and now it's all over the news.
I was attacked. Oh, Jones is crazy. He claims that camera and all these people are going there because they're preparing for doomsday.
That's because I was talking to people in Hollywood that worked directly for James Cameron.
I had dinner with someone that worked for James Cameron. I'm like, how are you doing? I haven't seen you in a few years.
Well, I'm not doing too good. Cameron doesn't even think there's a future and most of these other billionaires he knows in tech
are saying there's this big event coming and everyone's evacuating to New Zealand.
I came on air and now it's all admitted. And then people that aren't billionaires, they're moving to Montana and Wyoming.
I know a bunch of prominent Texas families that are evacuating Texas.
Just evacuating and they just say, word is, can't save the country.
So remember this leftist from all of you crazy people that want to burn it all down. You're anti for methods and all of you.
If Trump can't stabilize the country and if we don't make alliances and peace deals and the world economy keeps going in this direction with population
and all the crises and all the countries that have bio weapons, there's going to be a big world war and there's going to be worldwide depression.
And a lot of you aren't going to make it out of it. Because let me tell you, the leftist wants to destabilize the country.
They want the collapse to come. That's the evil globalist arm.
I've gotten total chills. I don't know if you can zoom in with the camera, but I've got the hair standing up even on my chin right now.
I've got goosebumps on my face. I've never had that because I'm saying the truth right now and my subconscious mind is going, yes, that's what you're supposed to be doing.
You are supposed to be doing this. I mean, I'm like on electric fire right now because this is what I'm supposed to do.
And I don't want to get up here and fear monger folks, but this is going on and I'm begging the crazy left, the brainwashed folks, your victims.
Zuckerberg's own documents admit they created the mind control. They put you in this position to a successive approximation, making you more and more aggressive, more and more angry,
more and more mentally ill, more and more wanting to ban words and ban freedom and ban speech and ban assembly and ban free market as you run around with smart phones living in the lap of luxury.
You're being set up to bring the country down. It's a scientific plan and it's very, very sophisticated.
It's 30, 40 years advanced and even what most people know. And that's why I get so frustrated when I hear people go, oh, look at this analytics company in England.
It got names of millions of people off public data mining and the Republicans used it. Trump used it to contact people ban and use it.
It's so sophisticated, ban conservatives and nationalists worldwide and populace from access to public data mining.
There are thousands of prominent companies in the US, tens of thousands worldwide and Cambridge Analytica, it says in the top of corporations, maybe 200.
I mean, I've looked it up. It's in the top couple hundred. It's a big one. But compared to Apple, Facebook, Twitter, Google, the NSA, the CIA, Defense Intelligence, Samsung, Amazon,
they're all in a giant race for AI that's hooked into everything. And then they believe there's going to be a huge corporate AI war that'll be economic to see what system takes over the planet.
And they believe when it finally hits total consciousness and connectivity, it might take over in hours.
Just a few days of stock trading and one company's able to buy it all up and nobody cares because the stock market's at 100,000.
And then suddenly there's AI robot run factories rolling out where everybody can have 20 smartphones a month and, you know, live in a nice house and do whatever you want.
But you see, the decision's been made to not let you have all that.
They can already, within just a decade, no one will have to work anymore. But the decision was made.
And Bill Joy wrote about this. The Unabomber wrote about this. He was involved with the CIA, high levels of academia, at the leftist levels of planning this.
He kind of flipped out and went rogue because it was so scary. He just wanted to destroy civilization instead of letting it get to the whole AI merger.
So, I mean, let me tell you, I don't know if this plan is going to work, but we're on rails like a train and we're going to a really bad place.
All aboard. No, I think we ought to stop the train and have a discussion with everybody and be honest about what's going on.
But you see, they look at the slob like public and go, they don't deserve to live to 500 years old.
And if you can live that long, we'll have life extension that will be unlimited.
If you can extend life 50 years, then you might as well extend a thousand.
And the decision has been made that you don't get access to it because you like to watch football.
You like that cool. I do too as well. And we're just kind of down here and then it's been decided there's seven and a half million of us and we need to be cold.
And so that's where you're at.
All right, I'm going to go to break. I promise to come back. I just started getting into this old D.C. officials flocked to do staycamps.
Biden putting out the word. I'd beat up Trump. Second time he's done that.
Got this Congressman Swoosie saying, you know, we need to use the Second Amendment on him.
Another Congressman saying it's time to overthrow him. That's all in three days.
They're saying kill, kill, kill, kill, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack.
And with the anchors all pleased and smiling about it.
While the real money is, you know, up the mountains with helicopter bases.
And by the way, I don't think those really rich guys are stupid and don't think they want security contractors around everything collapses.
Those guys will all be given fruit punch.
And then they've got little weapons pods that just look like gray transformer boxes.
And they just unfold and up come the guns and got a computer inside solid state controlling it.
And so the billionaires are up in mountains and redoubts around the world with robot guns and robot drones and jump helicopters and all sorts of amazing jet copters.
And they've got their own satellites and their own on staff medical facilities.
They're dug in and ready for the AI war.
But all the left wants to do is go hit a conservative in the head with a bike lock and count their coup. Become a man.
Make sure a teacher can't teach the First Amendment in California or she gets suspended. That's coming up.
Make sure you don't investigate Seth Rich or we'll sue you.
Oh, and if an investigator doesn't stop, how's two bullets in your back, buddy?
Haven't got to that yet. Yeah, it's shot hardly even in the news.
Got shot a couple days ago and I didn't even learn about it.
Because hey, what's the Seth Rich investigator getting blasted in the back? The top guy.
Yeah.
He's also investigating Hillary and Russia ties and was at a pickup to pick up documents and blam, blam.
Think he's getting close? That's coming up straight ahead.
Infowars.com. We are the resistance because we just want a future. We just love humanity. We just want to survive.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting edge, top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at InfowarsLife.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide, go ahead.
Oh Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America.
And encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time InfowarsListener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much Alex for the InfowarsLife products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
We can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves. We can take our country back.
Make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding.
Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Well, we're looking into the identity of the main bombing suspect who died in a shootout with the police last night and reportedly detonated a bomb to get rid of himself.
Mark Anthony Cundit. And we are looking on different sites, going back to the archives to confirm that these are not new sites, posing as old sites.
And we're looking into his politics right now. We have some very interesting information, but I'm not ready to confirm this yet.
So look for that coming up in the next 20, 30 minutes. We are digging into that like busy beavers right now.
I'm going to get into doomsday camps at the start of the next hour and tie it in to all the preparations for civil war in the left and what they're up to.
And I want to get into the attacks on free speech, flashback, not even Nazi Germany charged Finnish man when they were occupying Finland over Hitler dog.
The man didn't like Hitler, had the dog howling Hitler as like an insult, making it a joke because the Nazis took themselves real seriously.
And then now Count Dankula, who would just do funny jokes and memes, very successful by the way, just main living, had the pug Hal Hitler.
He said, I don't like Hitler, so this is something to freak my girlfriend out. It didn't matter if he liked Hitler, it's his free speech.
Well, he's facing now a year in prison. YouTuber Count Dankula, who taught his dog Nazi's loot, faces jail time for hate crime.
Look, Newsletch reports it like it's a good thing. Isn't that incredible? The video, he said, I don't like Hitler.
So I think it's a terrible thing for the dog to do is like a sick joke, but that's just right.
Quite frankly, my French Bulldog captain died last year and I've shot videos that are on YouTube with the dog and he looked like he had a mustache because he didn't have hair on his front of his nose.
He had white hair, but it was black right here, so he looked like Hitler. One time I'm sitting there and when my buddy goes, you know, your dog looks like Hitler.
There's the late great captain on a sweet horn, I'm going to kiss him, not Hitler, the dog and my little sweetheart. He died in my arms, had an embolism, very, very sad blood everywhere.
But I was meant to point out that the teapot looks like Hitler. JC Penney banned that. Really didn't, but mental patients would think that.
So people thought the dog might look like Hitler. So should the dog be executed?
Well, there's video out there with me holding up the dog's arms saying, you know, ooh, sigile, because it's funny.
Just like John Cleese did a Hitler deal or Charlie Chaplin, what changed? We got hardcore authoritarians in this country.
Now, when the left wants to go around doing stuff like this, that's fine and dandy. And all the raunchy comics, everything, they can do whatever they want.
And that's actually cozy. He's sister that's still living. But when I had the crew tweeted that out, so they said, I'm going to eat Captain Fantastic for dinner. That was just last year. We put that back on the screen.
But that's cozy right there. That's my house. Sweet little cozy and good girl.
Anyways, she kind of looks like Hitler, too. I don't think she's racist. I think she's a dog. But that is the lunacy of this.
But meanwhile, Joe Biden can come around a few years ago. And again, this year, let's play the first clip from 2016. We'll play the new clip at a commencement speech.
Biden says he would have had beat the hell out of Trump in high school for disrespecting women. Then we're going to play some creepy Joe Biden videos because there's video of then Senator Sessions slapping his hand away from a five year old girl.
Biden kisses him on the ear, rubs their necks, rubs their backs. It's really creepy.
It's really, really, really, really, really creepy. The way he does it is obviously sexual. And he just gloms onto them and it's disgusting.
And he does it to women, too. Now here's some of the footage. This isn't even the powerful ones. But meanwhile, Joe Biden says that Trump having consensual sexual relations with 30 year old women.
They admit consensual treats them with total respect. That he wants to kick his butt for.
Knowing legally, he can try to say, oh, a long time ago, we treated, you know, girls in school like this, I'd kick his butt.
Implying he's this big tough guy and implying, again, that Trump is actually abusing people when it's Hillary and Bill Clinton that are famous for abuse.
When it's Joe Biden in all his weird history, you know, we always show the Joe Biden creepy stuff. Do's got the bombshell.
Well, what we're showing is nothing. I want to add in post, we put this out, his creepy, I mean, the one where he's slapping the hands away from the kids and grabbing on the kids and whispering in their ears.
There's a bunch of HD video. So I want to can the footage we have in that computer because it's, I'm not mad at the crew. It's just, it's crap.
We have got HD him rubbing their bellies, rubbing under their arms, rubbing their backs. I want the powerful footage in the name of the truth.
Anyways, it's amazing. So we've got all that happening. And then meanwhile, it's time to regulate the Internet.
Oh, yes, that's out of the Atlantic Monthly. California high school teacher put on leave after asking whether school should allow students to walk out to protest abortion.
You can't walk out for pro gun. They ban you saying the principal's office. You can't walk out, I guess, you know, if you're pro life, don't ask the school if you can do it at schools that have allowed anti gun.
Then they're going to violate your rights and you'll be able to sue them and win and teach the left a lesson. It's time to get litigious with them when we're within our rights.
So here is Joe Biden running his mouth. Remember, we had the congressman over the weekend say use the second amendment, the congressman from New York from the third district.
Suzy. Suzy on power. Drunk on power. Little Suzy. Little tipsy. And you got the other congressman saying we're going to take him out.
You got all the other. That's just this week. The violent organization of this. So here's Joe Biden putting out the orders of the troops, putting out the idea.
Let's get violent. Let's kick some butts. Here it is.
Press always asked me, don't I wish I were debating him? No, I wish you're in high school. I could take him behind the gym. That's what I wish.
Okay, so that's Biden running his mouth. Here's the newest clip from yesterday.
When a guy who ended up becoming our national leader said I can grab him anywhere and she likes him. And then said, I made him a student.
They asked me what I like to debate. I said, no, I said we're in high school. I take him behind the gym.
Yeah, let's beat people up. Let's teach people violence. Trump has done nothing. Trump has never been convicted of a crime.
Most of these women, it turns out, is totally made up.
We didn't hire Trump to be Mr. Goody Tushes. He's a little bit of a papulope. At least he was years ago.
But if he was raping a woman in the back of a car like Weinstein, that'd be fine. If he was a pedophile, that'd be okay. No.
But they act like it's abusing women. And there's this new thing where they call it toxic masculinity, taking your shirt off at the beach in movies.
They're now having women go, put your shirt on if a guy's mowing at the yard or at the beach. And they're selling that idea that men with their shirts off are bad.
So, see, the lefts all have sex with whoever you want, do this, be violent, you know, all these crazy things.
Everybody yells, oh, you all, your speech. If men sit down and kind of open their knees up a little bit, which women do as well, then that's some type of dominance and a microaggression.
This is an excuse for these bullies to get in our business and try to tell us how to live our lives. And it's time to reject them.
Because they're here now trying to arrest everybody for our speech. They're a bunch of bullying scum.
Okay, I'm going to be very judicious when I start the second hour. I'm going to drill in to the Seth Rich top investigator, shot twice in the back and then run over by car.
Can't make that up. And almost no news coverage of it. We're going to get into the latest on the emergency doomsday centers that have not covered yet.
I've just mentioned more exclusive info coming out here in Austin on the bombing situation and the death of the reported bomber and more.
If you're watching this second hour coming up, you're listening on local stations, please spread the word. If you're watching on Channel 9, Mainline Cable, our own TV station in Houston on a phonoscope, please spread the word about that.
So much going on. So many exciting things happening. In fact, I forgot that piece of paper I had that he gave me. I was going to plug phonoscopes.
A few hours a day. We're 24 hours a day in Houston on Channel 9. I mean the main channel right between Fox News and CNN. And it's happening everywhere.
The Streisand Effect took place. I wonder if they'll resort to bullets in my back. Well, I'm going to go on to the end whenever the course may be.
We shall fight and we shall never surrender. Now, we need your financial support, infowarstore.com.
We have a lot of products back in stock, a lot of products that are going out of stock and a lot of specials that are about to end, including a bunch of items that are 50% off at infowarstore.com and so much more.
infowarstore.com. Your support is critical. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139 and your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Well, info wars goes where the information leads us. The left will make stuff up to land their political enemies. They'll take someone that's committed a crime and then say that anybody in that political or cultural class is to blame.
We only do that when radical Islam itself says we're going to go kill the infidels, we're going to kill the defilers, we're going to overthrow them, we're going to have sex with our nine-year-old women, blah, blah, blah.
That said, we had this info 30, 40 minutes ago. We were vetting it. We're not 100% sure of this, but Raw Story has gone with it.
He accused Austin Bomber, kept a blog where he outlined conservative views.
Now, this was in 2012, so we're talking five and a half, six years ago.
He says, my name is Mark Condon. I enjoy cycling, tennis, reading, music. I am not that politically inclined. I view myself as a conservative.
Well, who knows what he is six years later, five years later.
But I don't think I have enough information to defend my stance as well as it should be defended.
The reason I am taking the classes because I want to understand the U.S. government and I hope that it will help me clarify my stance and then defend it.
So, is he going to end up being an anti-abortion person that was like an Obama circle around Austin saying it's the blue state inside Texas and we've got to fight back against it?
Who knows? I'm just trying to project out the lines of a possibility. I'm not saying that. I am simply speculating like everybody else is doing.
And then you've got other students and other blogs listed here that list Ron Paul 2012 and all the rest of it.
But that's another example of how they do a lot of these school assignments now online.
So stuff you've been writing maybe 20, 30 years ago, 40 years ago in the future is going to be there inaccessible.
And he talked about why gay marriage should be illegal, my view on free abortions, why we might want to consider doing away with sex offender registration.
An argument for the death penalty, the release of a terrorist, an option, internet privacy has not been reduced.
So this is reportedly what he wrote and the Internet Archive and Wayback Machines say that this indeed is from 2012. So we'll see.
Now the point is if raw story ends up being wrong about this, they went with their best information, they reported it, and then they shouldn't get sued by somebody or somebody else's family if the name's the same or they got something wrong.
Because there's not the intent to do harm. But the Democrats are doing to me is that. But then it's not even stuff I even said. They lie about what I've said and then just sue me for a whole PR deal.
Now the good news is we can beat these. The bad news is it'll take some money to beat them. But it's just crazy that Fox News is being sued for investigating Seth Rich's mysterious murder.
And now the guy who's been heading that up, who's getting sued himself, gets shot twice in the back and run over. And it's not even it's like one little blurb in the Washington Post in a Daily Caller article, DailyCaller.com.
We have it up on info wars.com. It's just wild. So I promise I'm going right to that. We come back from break.
But Mark Anthony Condit. This photo of him is from high school in 2013. I guess when he was a sophomore.
And we have another photo of him with his family from a similar time that we got exclusively. We also put on screen. So maybe that's why he looks so much different.
That is him delivering the bombs with FedEx mailing center. But we will continue to track that. We don't know if his views changed. Young people's views change a lot.
But I think it just comes to the unstable people. Folks can get guns. They can get moms. They can be leftists. They can be rightists. They can be Muslim. They can be Christian.
The point is you can't restrict the entire culture because there are bad people. That's why we have rights is to defend ourselves. We'll be back.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Dr. Group's got big important news on globalist plans for world government, globalist plans to reduce population, eugenics will be in studio, ride the shotgun, taking your phone calls, coming up at the bottom of the hour, interspersed with breaking news and information as it unfolds.
Now, this story with the whole climate of Joe Biden saying he wants to physically attack Trump, Congressman Swoosie of New York telling constituents they need to use the Second Amendment to attack Trump out, all the other hashtag-hunt Republicans.
It's three different congressmen, a vice president, you name it, this week saying take out the president, shoot the president, we've got to get rid of the president, they are just running around trying to get their constituents to get violent.
Well, if I tell people to go kill people and then they do it, I'm just as guilty. So, this is next level. Well, they all say we're bullies and want conservative and libertarian and Christian speech taken off the internet and it's happening.
Now, another thing being used is lawsuits to just intimidate people, slapsuits, just to make you shut up. Well, they're slapped back and they keep suing me at states that have slapped back and they're doing it to everybody else who's good.
Now, let's get to the big news right now. I mentioned this, but I want to read this article now, TheDailyCaller.com. This is also in the Washington Post, but just a footnote, like it's no big deal.
Former Marine charged in shooting hit and run of controversial Seth Rich investigator, because the media has made it controversial to investigate an unsolved murder that reportedly has major political ramifications and WikiLeaks has come out,
Julian Assange and said, we don't give away sources, but yes, you should look at him as a source. We are offering a reward for his murderer or murderers being discovered.
And what happened to Seth Rich? Shot multiple times in the back. Nothing taken. The family came out, I saw them on the news, held up pictures, said, we want to find out who killed our son. You bought the article from this week.
Headline Fox News Alex Jones sued New York Daily News. It's a photo of her with the reward that she's handing out, the reward flyers.
And so people start investigating this. People start looking into this, and then they get sued. And investigators you see on TV that the family says they're working with and that they say, say they're finding evidence of D&C connections, then suddenly those people change their stories.
Then suddenly anybody questioning it still is a conspiracy theorist and quote needs to be shut down. Because that's how they dehumanize you.
They say, say Fox News and Alex Jones sued for conspiracy theories. Well, no, Seth Rich got shot in the back multiple times. Nothing got taken. And there's evidence of Debbie Washington Schultz and missing laptops and the Awan brothers and Pakistan and her threatening the police. You better not keep those laptops.
There's major stuff going on. Pull up the headline for me, please. New York Daily News a couple days ago. Alex Jones Fox News sued. Boom. Click news comes up. I want to show people that because it illustrates there she is saying reward for my murdered son.
People investigate it. He works for the DNC. He works for the Clintons famous for their death trail. The family offers a $25,000 reward. Other people do, including a prominent lawyer, lobbyist investigative journalist type guy who gets a lot of big news.
He gets shot in the back, run over, and it's not even a news item. And that's the new story I'm going to get to now. Former Marine charged in shooting hit and run of controversial Seth Rich investigator.
A former Marine who claims to have worked as a special agent with the Department of Energy has been charged with shooting and running over Republican lobbyist Jack Berkman, who conducted a controversial investigation of former DNC staffer, Seth Rich's murder.
Kevin Doherty, 46, was charged Monday with use of a firearm and the commission of a felony, two counts of malicious wounding, according to a press release from the Arlington Virginia County Police Department. Folks, I didn't even know this happened. There's such a news blackout.
This happened on the 13th.
The Washington Post provided more details about the attack, which again should have been top news story. Guy investigator, top investigator of Seth Rich gets shot in the back, repeatedly by a Marine from the Department of Energy.
The Washington Post provided more details about the attack, which was the second to befall Berkman. That's right. Oh, I forgot when I mentioned that somebody was in his house and attacked him. I mean, this is a James Bond moving.
Over the past several months, an unidentified assailant attacked Berkman with pepper spray at his home in January. Yeah, that was the warning. We can get in your house and spray your right in the face with pepper spray in your house.
Next, it's bullets. Berkman, who was shot and run over March 13th at the Roslyn Marriott Hotel parking garage, Berkman was there to retrieve what he thought was documents from an FBI whistleblower.
Oh, you think you're meeting with an FBI whistleblower? You're getting bullets in your back. There's no reason for this to go on unless they want something covered up.
Bullets in Seth Rich's back. Bullets in Berkman's back. Car running him over. The guy's obviously tough as nails he lived.
Here's where it's crazy. When you're running one of these investigations, the groups then try to infiltrate you. That's step number one.
Doherty worked for Berkman on the Rich investigation until July 2017.
Rich, a data analyst at the DNC, was murdered in Washington, D.C. on July 10th, 2016 under mysterious circumstances. Doherty was an investigator on Berkman's profiling project, the group he formed to solve Rich's case.
Rich's death was initially described as a robbery gone wrong. A conspiracy theorist, ooh, people that question, speculated he was killed due to involvement in stealing DNC emails eventually released through WikiLeaks.
Well, I guess if Berkman would have died on the scene, we would have heard he was robbed as well. Oh, but sorry, he wasn't. Sorry, he lived. Oh, sorry.
There is no evidence Rich was involved in handling DNC emails so they don't want to get sued. Don't we're not saying there's evidence just WikiLeaks saying he may be the person?
We're allowed to ask. Berkman began working pro bono for Rich's family in 2016. He's come under heavy criticism for circulating unfounded theories about Rich's death.
So everybody says that so they don't get sued, including the Russian government was behind the killing.
Berkman later claimed evidence suggesting a serial killer murdered Rich. Rich's family members have since dismissed themselves from Berkman.
Berkman fired Doherty and sent a musician assist letter he told the post. He became someone angry. I just figured the matter was closed.
Yeah, folks. Doherty is linked and pageless. It was a former Marine and former Special Agent with the Department of Energy's Office of Special Operations.
Recently, the Operator Virginia based Maritime Security Company nexus consulting numerous press releases quoted him as an expert in the field.
Berkman's group touted Doherty's credentials in press releases about the Rich investigation.
I mean, this thing stinks to high heaven.
But we're not supposed to look at it until you get sued.
We're going to go to break. We're going to come back and get into DC officials flocks to doomsday camps.
We're going to tie that into more. Also, you know, they said you have to keep looking for bombs. There could be other accomplices.
FedEx is being evacuated at McKinney Falls again.
So we're going to continue to track that. We're right here in Austin, Texas. Hope nothing else is going on.
It's up on infowars.com. KVUE is reporting another photo from FedEx facility at McKinney Falls Parkway that was evacuated.
Suspicious package reported. You can obviously if people are on edge, we'll be back infowars.com, presentplanet.com, newswars.com.
They're trying to block those sites. Spreading of my hand is critical.
Stop feeding the beast. Every post you make on those evil anti-human anti-American perverted sites helps them destroy our families, our country and our souls.
Join One Way Today and take back your liberty. Your free speech alternative is waiting for you at OneWay.com. OneWay.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com.
We're call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goberkey.com.
The products are compact and models start from just 1798. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
If you want programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy, go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back. It's mycozx plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer. Scalability.
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides, but more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help this place.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall. Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late. Pick up a bottle of the new and improved mycozx plus now from the Info Wars store.
Info Wars Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as mycozx that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today at InfoWarsLife.com.
It's Alex Jones in the GCN Radio Network.
It was nine years ago that I was having dinner with a Hollywood producer and they were telling me about working with James Cameron but that it was hard to get the projects done dealing with holograms and all sorts of new movie theater experiences because he wasn't even sure there was going to be a future civilization that would have things like Hollywood.
And that he and other rich billionaires were setting up like an alternate government in New Zealand but also areas like Tasmania. Another alternate site is Kauai, Hawaii.
Now you got next year's news today here.
But here's the issue. Most people aren't billionaires. They don't have $100 million. They don't have any of that.
And so they're moving to Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and they are building armored redoubts.
And the reason they're doing that is I then told you six years ago I ran into a lady that's a billionaire, a defense contractor and among other things. And she was leaving towards that same area of the world, putting her money in the Cook Islands but moving to Tasmania.
And she said there won't be a U.S. here in five to six years. Well, Trump came along, we stopped it but they plan a total worldwide meltdown, civil war, mass starvation.
They've prepared the human mind with all the zombie movies and zombie shows. The Marines and Army been training for five years to mow down zombies. That means mass attacks, human wave attacks of starving people.
That's mainstream news. Look it up. Marines and Army trained to take on zombies. That's the cover for just mowing down crowds of people. You're like, oh, are you anti-Marine?
I'm anti-globalist putting us in a position where the Marines and Army are training for societal collapse. So here's the deal.
My own instincts say I should be in Montana or something and digging in with a transmission system there and alternately going in between because when the hammer drops, a war could trigger it, stop market collapse.
We're talking weeks till the EBT cards don't work, everything blows sky high. And I could go in for hours describing this. The globalists are then going to shoot out transformers all over the country.
They're going to then foment antifa and communists pouring out, burning down buildings, attacking police stations, show civilization breaks down.
They're going to have package bombs going off just every day in every major city. We told you this is all coming.
I don't know if this is a sigh up by the globalists here with some patsy they've cut out. Who knows?
But I know this. Here's the article up on infowars.com. DC officials flock to doomsday camps. What do they know that we don't?
Washington DC government officials are flocking doomsday camps around the country, which of course begs the question, what do they know that we do not?
And it goes to the Washington Examiner, and of course they show the New York Times, Washington Post, elites prepare for doomsday, elites dig in, elites move to Montana, elites move to New Zealand, elites build private high altitude long runways.
Some of them are even moving to Northern Canada 500 miles from anybody.
I mean, it's on, and they're there and they're scared because of the biotech, the bioweapons, just everything, the carrying load of the planet, not because of carbon dioxide, but other issues.
So it's going on. According to the Washington Examiner, a building network of backwoods doomsday camps around the country are pulling in members from affluent areas and even Washington National Security officials as threats grow.
Nuclear war, EMP, and it goes on from there, dubbed the Fortitude Ranch.
So that's just one article, but let me give you the real article. This is today out of Newsmax. Guess where Obama is with no fanfare and no speeches.
Obama is in New Zealand for meetings, golf, but no public talks. And who's he meeting with? I wonder who.
The Associated Press reports former President Barack Obama arrived Wednesday for a three day visit in New Zealand where he'll speak with community leaders, meet the Prime Minister, and play golf.
The seasons, the sessions will be closed to the public and media except for an official welcome ceremony Thursday.
Obama does not plan to answer questions from reporters. And then it just goes on to what he's going to be doing there, meeting with community leaders, business leaders, and the Prime Minister, and to work with the Obama Foundation.
That means the Obama Foundation building him an armored fortress as an escape.
And yes, I can tell you for certain that's the main escape base. We broke it nine years ago, and I was told once I knew that, talking to some other top lawyers and top producers, some of these guys have made billions.
These are some of the biggest names. And they got scared at one meeting where they thought they were being pitched to picking up a big movie.
And Mark Cuban was involved. And some of it came out in the news. Mark Cuban's on the phone while me. Mark Cuban's on the phone while this is going on. This is a big meeting.
And I brought up people going to New Zealand and they flipped out. And when I said, hey, be safe. Have a good one. I said, Texas saying, the one producer goes, are you threatening me?
And totally got scared and started shaking thinking I was in the CIA because Hollywood's overrun with that. And I was like, these people are paranoid loons, man.
I'm like, dude, I'm saying, be safe. You know, you're driving in a car. You had a good meeting. But I asked them about the meeting I had a few months before with the producer that works with Cameron.
And you'd have thought I was a ghost.
There it is. Silicon Valley Super Rich heads south to escape from global apocalypse. London Guardian. Oh, how many years after I told you that?
I remember, I like Mark Dice. He's a really smart guy, but he kind of memorialized. He attacked me when I first broke all this. We were kind of an aspat. You can look those up.
You're like, Joe's claims is happening. Well, I don't know. I don't claim it. It's true. So I'll say get the news today that you'll get nine years, not just tomorrow news today.
Peter Thiel gains New Zealand citizenship as tech elites, preps for doomsday.
Elites, elites, elites, elites, prep for doomsday. And what does Elon must tell you? He's got a place in New Zealand.
He tells you the decisions been made will cover we come back to end humanity as we know it, bring in a world government and exterminate you and your family.
On the altar of AI gods, close quote, the exact words of end game.
END game. G A M E end game blueprint for global enslavement. 10 years old this year.
You might want to go watch it for free. They tried to remove it. I had to send lawsuit threats to YouTube pointing out that I own it. I own the music. I produced it all. Everything. It's mine.
A group connected to Soros makes claims on it. They don't want you to see it. Oh, the New Yorker doomsday prep for the super rich.
There you go. They know something you don't know. They got something planned for you. Something they call love, but confess.
They've been a mess in where they shouldn't have been messing. The rest of the story on the other side of this break. Please spread the word.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life. NASA pack technology. Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve. Life saving, ready to eat bacon.
10 year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
It outpacks a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
It also funds our operation, but doing that, I know I've got to have the highest quality. Supermail vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
We did the supermail and the superfemale vitality, big changes, a lot of energy. We've gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, they've got a ton of money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs, harvested around the planet and then concentrated or maximum potency. They want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff.
Just cover that up for a while, but then burn you out in my experience, whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source. So it's pretty exciting and I love it.
Visit infowarslife.com today to secure your supermail vitality and other powerful products from InfoWarsLife.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfoWarsLive.com.
You keep saying you've got something for me. Something you call love but confess. You've been a messin' where you shouldn't have been a messin'. And now someone else is gettin' all your best. These boots are made for walkin'.
These events, ladies and gentlemen, have become too commonplace as gun violence in this country gets worse and worse and guns and assault weapons continue to flood our streets by the millions.
The students who are out there right now protesting, they are mourning the loss of their classmates and frankly of their innocence to some extent, knowing that they have to be prepared for what might be a massacre.
Fellow Americans, who is directly behind the national movement to manipulate American youth into signing away their Second Amendment rights? At this point, you can blindly throw a dart at the chaos inhabiting the United States and it will land on an organization directly funded by one of George Soros's open society foundations.
And under that umbrella, yet another radical left umbrella directly connected to the student walkout movement, the Tides Foundation.
Women'smarch.com organized the student walkout protest. Scrolling down to the bottom of the Women's March global website, we learned they are a project of the Tides Center, a radical left funding machine created by a named synonymous with George Soros, Drummond Pike.
In 2008, Pike anonymously donated $1 million to Acorn. After Dale Rathke, the brother of Acorn's founder Wade Rathke, was found to have embezzled $948,670 and 50 cents from the group and affiliated charitable organizations.
Acorn had previously received funding from the Tides Foundation. A reminder, Black Lives Matter may appear to be some organic movement of African Americans fed up with the man, but it is simply a front for more Soros activity to divide and conquer.
Busfare, hotel rooms and manufactured signs cost real money. It's two main financial supporters, our Democracy Alliance and the Freedom Road Socialist Organization.
Politico wrote, Democracy Alliance was created in 2005 by a handful of major donors, including billionaire financier George Soros and Taco Bell Air Rob McKay, to build a permanent infrastructure to advance liberal ideas and causes. And major donors like the Kellogg Foundation have had their trustees steer support from American values to filling the war chest of the radical left.
Breitbart reported, the foundation has, for instance, donated millions to the Mexican nationalist organization La Raza. The group founded to reclaim the southwestern United States for Mexico.
In 2015, the foundation gave $2,400,000 to the National Council of La Raza for general operating support. The Kellogg Foundation also has deep ties and associations with George Soros and the Clintons.
Breitbart News noted that Kellogg gave $200,000 to George Soros' far left open society institute. Kellogg also gave $930,000 to Black Lives Matter and millions to the Clintons and Soros.
When I looked into the groups, the civil rights unit who's suing us and the Voting Rights Institute at Georgetown, every member of their advisory board for Voting Rights Institute, all 12 people, were directly working with organizations that are directly funded by George Soros' open society, every single one of them.
It's incredible, this guy thought he was the messiah 30 years ago when he wrote a book, but in a way, he kind of is the messiah of evil. I mean, he's like the devil's messiah.
John Bown reporting for InfoWars.com.
I think this is a national security imperative. We have clear things that we do not understand how they work.
We operate in areas that we can't control.
USA, is this global governance that lasts? Is it one world? The Central Bank is in charge?
Israel claims the fact was accidental. Some former U.S. naval officers say it was on purpose. They describe today's action as part of a continuing cover-up.
Russian intelligence compiled a dossier on Mr. Trump during visits to Moscow.
He denied everything. He called it all fake news. And he accused CNN of being fake news.
This is a national emergency. If they kill Trump or remove Trump, it will cause a massive civil war in this country.
This is a female high-level emergency.
We are at war with Russia.
Are you aware that Mr. Stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with Julian Assange and which leaks?
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. It's Alex Jones.
I'm coming back after this, but we got big breaking news.
I went ahead and just asked the cruder in the last break. I said, just go into a search engine and click the news function for what's just happening now.
Print, Easter being banned, Christian signage being taken down, you name it. You have to understand, this isn't like a government building puts up an Easter symbol or a cross.
This is Cadbury eggs taking Easter off of their advertising.
This is the British government saying you can't advertise the name Jesus. This is the Australian government.
This is a total absolute assault.
And I remember 15 years ago, listeners obsessing over the war on Christmas and the war on Easter.
And I remember telling listeners, oh, the left's not really that bad.
I mean, I know they're idiots. They want our guns. They're horrible people, but they'll never get away with it.
And there's some extreme examples, but then you learn about people not being able to bring Christmas cards to school and hand them out.
You have a total free speech right to do that if it's a public school.
You just can't have a school say we have an official religion. You have to follow it.
You can't tell the valovictorian or the football coach or whoever that they can't get a speech they give, say they love God or that they don't love God.
I mean, if the football coach gets up at a party the week after they win the state championship and wants to say, you know, I dedicate this to Lucifer, he can do that.
You'll probably get let go because people aren't going to like it. And, you know, it's not good for morale, but it's just right.
Well, how many valovictorians and people and salutatorians do you hear about it every year?
The lossage where the schools tell them you will lose your grade and be put back a year and have your diploma taken.
I've seen this in the news thousands of times the last 20 years, a lot of times in Texas.
And then they still get up and go, I want to thank my family. I want to thank my mother, my father, I want to thank my teachers.
I want to thank my grandfather. I want to thank most of all Jesus Christ.
For when I was 13 or 14, you haven't some issues and some disciplinary problems.
Wasn't even making A pluses. And I was, you know, getting some some some apps and, you know, I went to church and my pastor got me right.
I changed my life and I owe all the glory to God. Boom. Your degree is gone.
First and foremost, always thank God for making all this awesome.
All right, we're going to go to break the full reports on infowaters.com.
But think about where we're at. A guy makes a Hitler joke with his dog.
He's facing a year in prison, convicted in England. Here, they're telling teachers, if you have a walk out for pro life, you know, you're fired.
And you can't, in your own commencement speech, your graduation speech, say, I love Jesus.
No, these are authoritarians. We got huge breaking news the other side.
Dr. Gribbs here. It's been sold out for months and now it's back.
It's Myco ZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer scalability.
But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, Myco ZX.
Now, it's the other side of the equation. Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help this place.
Yeast mold creates slime walls. And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX plus now from the Info Wars store.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use Carnivore by Info Wars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks.
That's why the Last Surgeon General's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Superblue fluoride-free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula. It's loaded with good halogen iodide, some of the bad halogen fluoride.
Superblue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in Superblue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver and more.
Learn more about InfoWarsLife Superblue toothpaste at InfoWarsLife.com and support the InfoWars while you support healthy gums and teeth.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
Dr. Group is here to talk about disease x. They're saying it could wipe out humanity. Why is the UN pushing that out of Basel Switzerland right now?
We're going to tie it into the globalist, all moving to armored underground redoubts in New Zealand, Kauai, Hawaii, Tasmania, Australia and other areas.
And now that ties into DC officials flock to doomsday camps. What do they know that we don't know?
Dr. Group can't get into this on air. I've known what he's been doing for several years. There's fellowships.
There are fellowships out there where you can go to elite universities and elite organizations if you'd accept it to it.
And different schools will leave it at that. And they do this at universities, have different business leaders and others where they can propagandize them.
And you can also get a lot of connections and you didn't want to get into a lot of this. You really don't want to get into it because you haven't completed it yet.
But you were telling me just how this confirms so much and the infertility and how they're controlling the billionaires and how they're intimidating them and how really it is a tiny cabal at the top.
About 20 people that met with the Rockefellers at Einstein University just a few years ago, Oprah Winfrey being the only black person ever allowed into it.
I mean, this is a very small cabal. And you were talking about people all over the world you met with but only a few other Texans that was strangely enough that even understood what was going on.
Pretty amazing. So I got to shut up the next hour so you can get into your news, take some calls because you've got quite a plate of critical information.
Dr. Edward Group joining us. Good to have you here, my friend.
Good to be here. Good to be here. Yes, I have been constantly traveling, constantly doing a lot of research, constantly talking to people and looking at
you know, our job is really to educate people and to predict what's going to happen in the future.
If we know the root cause and if we can kind of see what they're doing and what's going on and what to prepare for, then obviously we can take the necessary steps for prevention.
And yeah, I am a part of different types of learning areas because I like to see and I like to see what's being taught.
And I have been part of evaluating and researching the current school systems from preschool all the way through college educational systems.
That's a whole nother subject to talk about about how the history books are being changed and how people are being manipulated to believe in certain things and religion is taken out and all of these other factors as well as not teaching people about their body,
not teaching people about how to stay healthy.
You know, Alex, we've been talking about it for a long time is how many people are really in control of the depopulation agenda of the brainwashing agendas of society, the control and everything from fluoride to phthalates and all of the infertility that's happening,
which another topic I want to talk about today is the infertility or operation, sterility, operation, sperm again, whatever you want to call it.
Which is an absolute total admitted fact.
It is a fact and in research I'm going to share with you guys today will confirm that and why people really need to start thinking hard about taking care of their bodies and increasing and balancing their hormone levels.
But I realized for the first time talking to these multi multi billionaires and individuals and millionaires from around the world, just how far it goes with the manipulation and the mind control and the amount of information that they don't know.
And I know now that there's even, we think that the attack is on the people, but I know especially your listeners and most people out there that are online and reading this information actually know more.
I used to think that maybe all the millionaires and the billionaires and all those people actually knew about what was going on and they might have had protection.
But I'm like a 99% positive now that they don't as a matter of fact.
That's why they're getting scared. Look, the globalist at even the highest levels know this is super dangerous.
And they're the ones all digging in their takeover system is a collapse is a calamity.
So now even the higher level people that aren't in command but a very high level, they are scared to death right now.
The high level command people are scared to death.
But I tell you what, there's there's even a harder attack on the wealthy, wealthy, wealthy, wealthy, wealthy.
I think that that's not the case, but it actually is.
I mean, there there's CNN, Watchers, there, New York Times, they far like all of the media and all the stuff that is in their environment is extremely, extremely far left.
And to the point where you can, you couldn't even mention anything as simple as maybe gluten being bad or fluoride or any chemicals or anything.
And they're like really, really even though Harvard put up a study five years ago with 20 plus studies that causes brain damage, bone cancer, everything.
It doesn't even matter when the universities themselves admit it.
You still don't talk about it.
No, and very ingrained in on multiple pharmaceutical medications and things like that.
I mean, I, you know, it was it was pretty shocking and pretty amazing for me to actually witness that.
And but moving forward into what I think is one is is one of the things that is a high two things today that I'd like to talk about that I think people need to be aware of.
One is the announcement from the World Health Organization about disease X.
I know you covered it and you talked about it before, but I've done a little bit more research and talk to some scientists that are involved and talk to some individuals that are privy to that.
And the World Health Organization is getting ready ready for this is the first time I that I think that I can ever remember that the CDC or the World Health Organization has actually come out and said prepare for an unknown disease.
That could be something that could be an epidemic that could wipe out millions and millions and millions of people.
And I'm not saying this was wipe out humanity, wipe out humanity.
There are a few different things right now that are that are happening and a few different diseases that they're trying to get under control right now.
You're also pointing out I haven't gotten the flu in like 10 years or something.
Record levels of people that don't get the flu got it.
Yes, and I was looking into that because I ended up getting it as well not not that bad, but I ended up getting, you know, a sore throat and people that I know in the natural health industry that have not gotten sick or not gotten the cold not gotten the flu and individuals that have been healthy have
not gotten the flu have all gotten it one two and possibly three times this year.
So from talking to those individuals from talking to the people with the that are creating the link between the flu shot this year the hexavalent the multiple hexavalent flu shots.
There are mutations happening and maybe that's what's contributing to this this this mysterious disease exit the World Health Organization is predicting.
But we know vaccines are incubators for mutation.
Yes, yes, and we're and they're using four or five six different types of viral strains.
They're using the SARS viruses they're using the MRSA they're using all different types of viruses different strains of influenza the swine flu.
When you mix a swine flu virus with let's say a different types of a dentist so viruses it allows it to jump species.
Yeah, who knows what's going to happen.
That's what the reports said they said all the GMO all the engineering all the animals and humans living in close proximity zoologically it's all jumping.
And so they're already seeing all these souped up bacteria souped up viruses we're going to go to break come back and talk about all this and ladies and gentlemen.
The globalists are heading for the hills they're digging in while saying oh the great Cullings coming it'll be better for the earth before we got a break.
We've got some of the great products that Dr. groups developed like super male vitality that is still listeners favorite because it's cold press super female and super male.
And that's all 25% off right now and then for our store.com back in stock.
It takes a lot of money to fund this operation.
And this is a great product take it under the tongue people love it.
We also have the secret 12 that even Buzzfeed tested and said is the strongest best vitamin B12 out there.
And it was kind of a backhand compliment.
They said this is actually the best one that the California lab tested and Jones is pure but whatever.
And then it was of course yours were private labeling.
So so it's hilarious.
There you go.
Yeah they tested over a hundred and found ours is the best.
They just said ours is pure and good and everything but this other one's better not knowing it was groups very very funny.
So secret 12 that's 25% off info wars live.com lung cleanse is great a bunch of concentrated essential oils right for your throat.
We also have the new super blue silver immune gargle spray bottle that has the colloidal silver and also has the iodine and more in it.
And that's only 995.
Those are together 38% off info wars store.com info wars life.com or triple 82533139 and Michael's ex now stronger and a lower price to flush out the mold to use the candy to all that info or store.com.
And again they're trying to shut us down.
I'm not going to want to complain about it.
I mean we're over the target.
I want to win.
I want humanity to make it.
But these globalists want to try to intimidate us.
They want to intimidate our American spirit, our Texas spirit.
But they haven't done that to you and you keep supporting us under local stations.
We've gotten over 20 new radio affiliates the last month.
We're getting new TV stations every day and we're talking basic channels like channel nine in Houston 24 hours a day info wars.
This is massive.
So spread the word get around the sensors info wars.com news wars.com.
We'll be back with Dr. Edward group with amazing and critical research and we'll open the phones up stay with us.
Let's go to Devin in Florida.
Devin in Florida you're on the air.
Great hey thank you so much.
Listen I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing.
Thank you.
I was on the fence by it because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret swell, vitamin interfusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow thank you.
You're the type of lesser than makes it all possible.
Which pharmaceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you I felt incredible like I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys.
I love the info wars crew.
And I just want to yeah I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence just buy it.
We'll love it.
I'm telling you I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march.
Make them protest.
Make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports,
bully and terrorize the law-abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
It's Alex Jones.
We're back live.
If you're watching us on TV, you see that amazing crew in there putting up with me, I gotta tell you.
This stuff gets to me.
I get pretty stressed out and earlier I got into the whole globalist world government situation and how they're digging into bunkers
and the elites are totally scared and the ones that I've talked to that are awake and know what's going on are really upset and worried.
And they basically say the exact same thing he was saying.
There's a very small globalist cabal of agencies and scientists and then people like Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, the Rothschilds,
the Rockefellers that set up the whole world government, the UN.
I mean, they're on record.
It's been the news they run, the quote, alternate world government, ABC News reports.
So, and they've got the Islamists on board and they're building something really big and really bad.
And that's why I don't want to fight with what we call libtards and people.
It's fun to make fun of them because you know what?
They're dangerous.
We've got to reach out.
We've got to let them know they're being manipulated.
So, we'll cover this more in the next segment.
World Government Summit to Tackle Artificial Intelligence, CNBC, we'll talk about that and tie it into.
They've already decided on the future.
And then you go hang out in top, let's just say, research groups with people worth $37 million.
And they're compartmentalized and scared and kept on the plantation.
And going into these elite groups to get their yearly download of what the new, not just political correctness is, but corporate correctness.
And it's frightening.
Yeah, we have access to reports that literally show that we're done by like McKinsey and people that show what exactly is going to happen and take place in world businesses and economies with health care, with manufacturing, with everything and what they're projecting for the next 15 or 20 years.
I mean, that's the kind of information that is very, very, very few people get.
But I was amazed that they really didn't have any of the truth.
They didn't have any of the truth.
And are you barred from talking about it?
Or why is it you don't want to talk about it?
Yeah, I had to sign a non-confidentiality agreement.
Yeah.
I'll talk about it.
I'll talk about it.
Great people, though, I mean, you know, I mean, you know, great, great people.
But leftist, fearful ideologies, the operating system, because they can always download the newest version.
They're always raising the bar with this global social score.
You're never going to be able to attain it.
Pretty much.
The question I wanted to ask you was, you know, all these people that are going into these hideouts, do you think that it's because they're fearing a biological attack?
Do you think that they're fearing an economic meltdown?
Do you feel that they're fearing a nuclear attack?
I mean, I think it's exactly the order you said.
Biological, economic, nuclear.
And let me tell you one thing that was covered probably most of the time at this meeting was the implementation.
Oh, even up there for a month.
I was up there for three weeks.
The implementation of blockchain technology.
You know, I was, you know, I've toyed around and done a little bit of research into the crypto currencies and all that stuff and the blockchain.
But let me tell you what the main one of the main things they were talking about is if you're not looking into this, I mean, this is here to stay the blockchain technology.
And I think there's something going on to what that's going to happen here with our currency system.
I don't know what it is, but I know that a lot of things are going to decentralize systems.
I can tell you, and I saw videos with my own eyes of how the crypto tokens.
This is crypto currencies like the Bitcoin and Litecoin theory of, you know, different types of coins.
But there's also crypto tokens and the crypto tokens are going to be these new platforms that are coming out.
For example, advertising platforms.
I think this is really, really good because these are the people that are a lot of them behind us and a lot of them that are aware of the truth.
And they're wanting to decentralize all these things.
And it's getting to the point where governments and big corporations are freaking out about it.
Because you have like, sure, that's why there has a big clamp down that just happened.
Let's come back and talk about that and all these different disruptive forces as they see them.
And just the fact that we are all strapped to a rocket.
Okay, I mean, this is an incredible time to be alive and they don't want you thinking.
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com.
In a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw of medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the fornilay.
And I came up with our own formula working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at m4warsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, so many people come up to me on the street and they say, Alex, how are you taking it,
getting demonized by the globalist, having Soros funding groups sue you,
having the comedy shows almost every night lie about you and demonize you.
I'm not doing this to win a popularity contest.
I'm doing this to wake people up to stop societal breakdown and collapse that the globalists are betting on.
And after that collapse happens, they're going to bring in a real authoritarian system.
So I'm doing this as an information soldier for my family and for humanity.
I'm an American, I'm a Texan, I'm a Christian, but at the final equation, I am rooting for civilization and humanity.
When people give up on it, civilization falls.
That's what's wrong in third world countries.
And we are seeing major decline everywhere, but also a lot of new developments and rebirth at the same time.
So it really is up to those of us that take action and get involved.
Here's this article from a few weeks ago as it ties into the news today that Dr. Group joining us here in studio was just covering.
And that's World Government Summit to Tackle Artificial Intelligence in Dubai.
And then it talks about how they accept we're having a world government.
We're going to merge with machines and that humans will be made obsolete.
And the article just goes through all that.
Now, that's exactly the whole premise of what I've been saying for 20 years.
I didn't have it figured out the first couple.
I knew they were eugenics that wanted population reduction, but I didn't get the whole that eugenics became transhumanist.
And again, I'm not saying of you want to be a transhumanist, that you yourself are bad.
It's the directive of this transhumanist system that we see through the big universities.
And then you tie that in to the billionaires, like down to the millionaires, right down to people in government service,
digging in and believing not just a civil war, but total war, a world war is coming.
And we should have a debate about that.
We should have a discussion because they see at the top those directing it.
This AI takeover is being very violent, very disruptive, but cleansing of humanity as if humanities are disease.
Well, our decadence, our slovenliness, our evil, people being stupid, people being lazy,
people being angry, I'm certainly not perfect.
Just the tension of the modern society is brain damaging us.
It is making us angry. It is poisoning us.
So we're going through a metamorphosis that isn't too pretty.
And I liken it to space travel without gravity.
If you went on a mission to Mars, you would have trouble walking once you got there.
Not because of its low gravity, be the opposite, but because you're at the feet, muscles and bones.
So it's the same thing in this modern culture.
We are withering. We are dying.
Our brain waves are lowering. Our brain cells are dying.
Our genetics are mutating. Our sperm are dying.
Our eggs are mutating.
We are being destroyed.
And the electromagnetics and the 4G and the 5G, they know what it's doing.
And it's being directed by a very small group at the top that didn't want to be identified.
Now they've been identified. Their plans identified.
And we need to have a discussion about this because there's one big group of globalists that aren't for total death and destruction,
who are warning people and saying this, like Elon Musk and many others.
And then separately, you go to other elite training schools and things that the group can't get into,
as you sign on disclosure, but I'm fully aware of the programs.
Everybody's aware of the programs for business people and folks that have, you know, like group and very successful
and things like that can get into the group.
And then, you know, one person might be worth only $50 million.
The richest guy's worth $37 million.
And you're there and these big universities want to bring you in for these conferences,
these events, these higher learning once a year to get you on board.
And so I guess they kind of just let us buy the people in.
And then you see how shuttered, how dumb it is, how there actually can corral in people.
But then also some optimistic and good things.
You were getting into that. Let's get back into it and all these other articles you've got because this is the future.
This is the big enchilada. This is what's going on.
You know, a lot of it is just to, you're able to talk to people from all around the world and find out what's going on
in corporations, political, financial, and really, I wouldn't say I was, you know, spy,
but more or less getting the information that the high level people are getting.
So I kind of, you know, feel like a speck of pepper in a pile of salt because you realize how awake you actually are
and you realize you can kind of see.
What you're saying is you're getting way better info.
You're seeing, they're like mushrooms capping the dark fed crap.
You're in there seeing the brainwashing just at another strata.
Well, see, one of the struggles that you don't hear about in the mainstream media that's currently going on right now
with all these multi-million dollar, billion dollar companies is technology.
Exactly what you said, AI.
These companies are stuck right now because they're on these big ERP platforms.
They have technology that's outdated and technology is going so fast with AI and with automation and with blockchain and all this other stuff
that they're sitting there going, oh my gosh, how am I going to keep up with this?
How am I going to change all this?
And corporations, the whole society is changing.
So corporate, it's not a top down approach anymore like it used to be so much.
It's more like a bottom up approach.
Because with social media, you have these individual workers and you have to create a culture in your company and you have to take care of people.
And nowadays, if an employee is treated wrong or something's not fair, then they can go on social media and they can attack you.
And it's a reputation that you have to uphold.
So all of these different things coming at these companies a million miles an hour and the fact that they're dealing with-
It's information overload.
It's information overload.
It just goes to show you that knowing the truth can be so beneficial.
And I'm saying-
Oh, there's nothing more valuable than knowing information.
And then the globalists are threatened by information.
They're always trying to keep us low information.
That's why governments and intelligence agencies do listen to us.
It's why they're obsessed with us because of the guests we have on like yourself and knowing that whistleblower info and things that they can't control is going to get out in larger than that.
Why did James Cameron, when he stopped Hollywood Billionaires, start exiting to New Zealand nine, ten years ago?
Because other, even richer, more powerful people told them, we believe it's untenable. Civilization cannot be saved.
We're going to actually engineer its controlled collapse.
And so it was a giving up on humanity or it was the ultra-rich eugenicists getting all the other rich people who weren't pure evil to just give up and go hide while all this is coming.
So that's what I'm saying.
What are they going to hide from?
You asked the question, you said, is it biological disease X type scenario?
Is it financial collapse?
Is it war?
I think in that order, you knew the answer before you said it.
And your question was the answer.
I agree with that.
And I also think that when you have the flu shots becoming more and more and vaccines push,
and you have the psychological testing on children in schools these days, mandatory psych testings,
and it's open that they want every single child on some sort of psychotropic medication.
They want every adult on some form of medication.
And in their own documents say, this is the brain damage and control.
This is the chemical lobotomy.
This is 21st century war.
You're under World War Four, globalist attack.
And the word is, they've already got competing AIs right now.
They just need to get them all jacked into fiber optic and everything be a smart device so the AIs can see and run everything.
But you know what?
You know, the more I think about it.
AIs growing, it's tentacles.
Well, they're already doing experiments where they're doing half human and chips inside of you with animals.
And the future is a part, yeah, part human, part computer system that they can control.
And with that, everything comes into play.
They're already building the chip interfaces.
You know, what I think is going to happen, Alex, is all the people that we talk to and we know, because I know now,
like all the billionaires and all these company corporate owners, they're stressed out to the hilt.
They're on multiple medications because they're in bed with the pharmaceutical and the big agriculture.
And they make the world so complex where all these technologies, social media make you depressed.
They make things more complex. They don't make it work better for human systems.
So it's meant to make us finally go, A.I. take over.
And then when we let that take over, then we're done.
But the good news is, the good news is that you're starting to see all of these young people and you're starting to see all the people that do know the truth,
that are coming out with ways to decentralize social media platforms through crypto tokens.
So the answer is true, grassroots, local innovation.
But what Doug always said, get off the big casino gulag.
Look what's happening to Facebook right now.
Look at all the senators wanting Zuckerberg to come in and all the data that's being stolen, all the campaigns for people to delete Facebook.
Hey, this is Ricky from Banion Hill. You like freedom? I do. You like money? I do too.
If you like freedom and money, then you're going to love freedom checks.
You see, over the next few months, an estimated $34.6 billion is up for grabs to anyone who states their claim.
Yep, you heard that right. $34.6 billion.
To get all the details, just go to www.americanfreedomchecks.com.
Thousands of people already lined up to cash in.
Take Doug, for example. He's a 46-year-old from Joplin, Missouri, set to get a check for $24,075.
If Doug can do this, I've got a hunch that you can too. But here's the thing.
If you want the chance to grab your full fair share of this $34.6 billion payout, you must have your ducks in a row by April 1st.
So don't wait. Get over to www.americanfreedomchecks.com before the April 1st deadline.
That's www.americanfreedomchecks.com.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID badge.
ID Stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology.
Over 12 years ago, ID Stronghold's wallets, sleeves, and badge holders are trusted by the U.S. military and the executive office of the president.
Something the competitors can't say.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code MAGIC at checkout for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
ID Stronghold is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InfoWars Life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMell Vitality, and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects, this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products.
And this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
The reason InfoWars Life has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my Superfemale. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is a little luxurious once again.
So obviously Superfemale is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
It's a 5-star rating. It's a win-win at infowarslife.com.
I'm just sitting here talking to Dr. Group about personal family stuff and how it's got to be half the women I know who aren't even that old, 30, 40 years old to have a very incest.
You read about women and their thyroids being way, way worse than men and all the goiter and the rest of it.
Right here, WebMD. Two little iodine could harm a woman's fertility. You've got a whole stack of news about fertility's way down, sperm counts are way down.
It's amazing. And I'm just sitting, wait, Dr. Group's been on for like 45 minutes. We haven't even plugged anything.
And we sit here and we talk about solutions as being awake, solutions as being involved. I work way too much.
It doesn't mean I'm perfectly in health or whatever. But I know that when I do take X2, our great proprietary eye on the Dr. Group develop, I know when I take our products, I feel better.
Everybody loves BrainForce. It's like one of the top new tropics out there on the market now. People buy because it's very well priced and has high quality stuff in it.
That's all available at infowarstore.com. I know he came on the day to get into all this other news, but I want to get some into super male vitality, super female vitality.
Why they're so popular even on third party sites, why it works so good for people, what it does, what the cold press does.
Let's talk about iodine and then let's tie it into all this other news we're getting. But let's kind of do some plugs here because it funds the operation.
We're fighting for free speech and it's the truth and it's something that really, really helps people, which is a 360 win.
But just briefly, I'm sure you've seen Georgetown coming after us among lawyers so they've never seen anything like this.
Totally fake suit. That'd be the frog guy said everybody can use it, trademark free. We didn't even use it. We sold third party poster. Lawyers say 100% in no case.
But they're suing us. George Soros groups are coming after us. They're coming after Fox News. They're coming after everybody.
And it's just pure bullying. So that tells me it's not going as good as they think.
But we talk about info wars or the fact that even media matters and George Soros submits. Info wars, our audience has radicalized Fox News.
We've radicalized Congress. They say that in the lawsuit. They want to shut down because we're the progenitor. We're patient zero of what going, hey, look, we're right about world government.
Hey, we're right about their depopulation plan. Of course, as you said, you go to these elite events. I can't get into the names of you.
And on disclosure, you told me all about it. I'm aware of those things. Even they're keeping the average rich person in a bubble.
And the whole system is about keeping them in those bubbles. But out of Texas, it seems that a few other areas, there's this understanding of it.
We have to understand the globalists are scared of this broadcast because we really have got their number. I mean, we really get the whole deal, folks.
You get the whole deal. Our view on the world cosmology is the cutting edge 10 years ago. Everything Elon Musk says as if as if I said it.
No, Elon Musk didn't get this stuff from me. Even though I know he's a listener. I've talked to folks that know him or probably going to meet sometime.
The point, you know, Chris Carter list goes on and on. The point is, is that I'm reading what the globalist is saying in white paper.
So is Musk. He's an engineer. All we're doing is telling you what they really plan to do. It's like we're reading the program of a play we go to.
And we see that in the final act, the cast eats the spectators and then they even have a little video of last night's event when they're like splitting people's throats in the stands.
And I'm like, hey, you might want to read the program because it don't end nice.
They're not scared of the of the people knowing the truth so much. It's going to come back and bite them.
What they're really scared of is people in power knowing the truth. People with money knowing the truth.
That's why they spend 75% of their time making sure the millionaires and the billionaires don't find the truth.
Because those are the people that have the money, the power, that if they find out the truth can create big changes in society.
That's why they're so worried about you because you've come to that level where you are telling individuals the truth.
What they're not paying attention to though is all the millions and millions and millions of people out there that don't really have millions of dollars.
But I tell you what, these people have desire and these people have the ability to get up in March and it's the people, we the people, that are the ones that create change in this world.
They massively censor Trump and the nationalists everywhere already.
The Democrats own, you know, brag. We own Facebook. We run it. They're with us.
Despite all that, we beat them. When you spread links, when you spread articles, when you demonstrate, when you talk to a friend, when you tell people about a local radio station,
when you become a sponsor, when you buy our products, all of that is systematically moving and in a chain reaction, they're not bragging to brag.
We're under attack because they can see info wars and all of our guests, the family, as like a domino effect like Viva Vendetta going out.
And so that's why I know we've already sent the signal. They're attacking us to demonize other people to scare them to not speak out.
This is all about intimidation.
Well, we know their methods and the even though they're spending 75% of the time trying to keep the millionaires and billionaires in the dark.
And they're not they're spending 25% of their time trying to keep the general public in the dark through media and everything else.
We know what their weapons are. There's operation sterility that's going on right now.
And I put the top 10 because I just went back and look at this. I do it about every six months to see what's new and what's happening.
The top 10 ways that they're trying to create sterility.
Number one is fluoride in the water. Number two is the antidepressants, which we talked about getting all kids and all people on some psychotropic medication.
How draconian is that?
Number three is airport body scanners, the electromagnetic frequencies, the cell phones, the smart meters next to your bedroom wall on the outside of your house.
And the frequencies that they're using are creating sterility and infertility.
The next thing number four is pesticides, the trickle sand, the roundup, the atrazine.
All of that. That's a whole other show we've talked about it many times.
Number five is the personal care products. Notice that all of these things people are in contact with pretty much every day.
That's going to be your antibacterial soaps, sunscreen.
That was a planned attack on humanity with global warming.
All of the doctors were sent out memos to tell people stay away from the sun, get out of the sun.
It's going to lower your vitamin D levels, slather this chemical endocrine disrupting chemicals all over your skin.
Let's mess with their hormones through that.
When we were growing up, we didn't even know what sunscreen was.
Now it's everywhere. I see people lathering sunscreen on their skin.
And skin cancer is up.
Exactly. Number six is flu shots and vaccines. Number seven is soy and phytoestrogen compounds.
Number eight is genetically modified ingredients.
Now, by the way, there's research that just came out on foods and Coca-Cola, or actually, let me just say sodas, may harm your fertility.
Drinking soda and energy drinks may are linked to infertility.
And of course, what you said 10 years ago and Blalock said 20 years ago, diet soda makes you fat.
Aspartame makes you get fat, makes you stay hungry, and fries your brain.
But it's toxic and addictive. Many poisons aren't addictive.
So they're putting additives in that are grandfathered that are poisonous.
Study has linked ibuprofen to male infertility. Now, you know what? It's a lot easier.
It's a lot easier to attack male infertility, to make male sterile than it is women.
By the way, they just announced, and maybe you can pull up the study right now, just type in male birth control pills.
It's all over the news now.
This is something that is going to be a controversial issue, right?
Now they're getting males. So now you're going to have all of the left saying,
well, it's not fair for women to be put on birth control pills anymore.
Now it's got to be a male thing.
The whole thing is how an alien force would depopulate a plant.
CNN, male birth control pill.
This is exactly how aliens would operate against us. We'll be back.
And if you owe more than $20,000, you may be at the top of their hit list.
So don't take your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own.
The IRS can seize your bank accounts, your home, and even shut down your business.
Call our tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818 and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business.
That's 1-800-261-9818. Again, 800-261-9818.
The IRS noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at InfowarsLife.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
We're not trying to be negative here and we bring up all these really scary things.
This is what the crown princes in Saudi Arabia and what the royalty in the Netherlands and England's talking about.
When you go read the conferences they have and the events they go to and what gets leaked out of the meetings, it's monetary government.
And do we go ahead and exterminate everyone or do we call the population? What do we do?
Well, the decision has been made. Don't just let people party and play around because we're headed towards a digital singularity,
but we're headed towards a type of digital Armageddon it seems.
And so I'm not going to quit and not have children. A lot of globalists don't have children because they believe the future is so bleak,
but they're helping make it bleak. And so I think that's really the point we've gotten to Dr. Groups here with us.
We'll ride shotgun a little bit at the next hour with Roger Stone. I want to take your calls on the products.
We hardly ever do this. People love to call in on those. Your reviews, your questions for Dr. Group.
Any questions you've got about the whole global system and what's happening? Any of the news we've covered?
800-25-99231, 800-25-99231 specifically on these subjects.
Wait, that's the old GCN number. See, my brain is so teleprompter free that I have been using that number in a couple of months
that I just gave out the GCN number. That's the wrong number to give. And quite frankly, Dr. Group, now that everything's being admitted,
I don't want to say I'm depressed, but I realize the globalists are as bad as we thought.
Totally lost, totally greedy, totally ruthless. The public's mesmerized.
Those of us that are awake are under attack. And it's like frightening because if people would just wake up,
we could have a better future for everybody. But because good sees everything as too complex, only evil control freaks want to run it.
And so we're on a collision course with hell that isn't even good for the establishment, in my view.
Yes, they got power, temporal power off of what they've done, but it's destroying them. Here's the number.
Used to only be for the Sunday number. Now it is weekdays. Excuse me. I have one of those little brain, you know what?
877-789. Alex, 877-789-2539. Questions just on, or your statements on population reduction, on globalism, on AI,
on the fact that it's all out in the open. I mean, every time I think about the show, I think, I want to go get on air
and really just lay out, wow, we were right about world government. We were right about eugenics. We were right about it all.
What are we going to do? But they know the public's kind of realizing that now, so let's change the subject. Let's call him fake news.
Let's say Alex Jones said a bunch of things he didn't say. That is their new tactic. That's the other tactics they're using.
How do you see this fight going? How do you see us winning? 877-789-2539. Dr. Grubb.
It's a war on truth is what it is. I mean, we evaluate the root cause of the condition.
Everybody else, in the way that they are training students in major universities and students from the time they're preschool up,
is away from the truth. They don't want them to become free thinkers. They don't want them to search out the truth and the knowledge.
Just like what I'm talking about today with the sterility, and I mentioned on your show, I don't know how long it was.
I think it was like a year ago that, watch and see, in the future, sperm will be selling for millions of dollars
because there's not going to be any more healthy sperm. There might even be a company that just has a piece of organic land
or just this sealed building that they raise these guys in, that they give them organic food all day long,
and they test their blood levels and maybe these sperm production facilities.
I'm not saying like slavery. I mean, of course, these individuals need to be healthy and they need to be scary.
The point is, they've already got gene arcs, biology arcs, they've already got cell arcs, they've already got seed arcs,
and who pays for it, the Rockefellers?
No, I mean, and really, unfortunately, and I've even heard this and you can pull it up online,
is they're trying to artificially create life to where they don't even need the male human species anymore or the female ones.
Well, what about this? They've already got embryos they're growing that have two daddies or two mommies saying that's trendy.
Well, a man and a woman have different chromosomes, women have an extra chromosome, women have a second set of DNA.
I mean, as you know in the biology, there's a female that's like the species, and so that's not a human.
But see, that's transhumanism. Don't say the new thing isn't a human. That's how they said the president.
Don't say a man with male chromosomes isn't a woman if he wants to get a pap smear of his genitals, even though they're male genitals,
because they're just getting you ready to not question the humanoids.
But here's the thing, Alex. They're not going to be able to replicate the pineal gland and our consciousness and our ability,
our spiritual ability to tune in, and that's what the top globalists, the people that run the country, fear the most.
And if you look back at the history, yes, inside of our pineal gland, we have a tiny little crystal.
You can pull up pictures of it online. They didn't find out about it until they were doing autopsies years ago,
and they started taking apart and cutting open our pineal gland, and they found that there's this tiny little crystal.
I don't even know if they know what it's made of, but it was very interesting to the autopsy people.
So they, of course, in spirituality and through ancient India, that's your third eye, and that's the power.
But if you think about it, how we communicate, even how we ourselves communicate, is through semiconductor.
Our cell membranes are semiconductors.
You can type this in from Journal of Nature.
Birds, they now know, navigate the magnetic lines with magnetic crystal cells they have, and they found humans have them as well.
So it's not just one crystal, and different people have different levels of it,
and they've actually gone back now, and in studies you said in autopsies,
that certain people have more of these magnetic cells in the brain.
They started looking at yoga masters that died, that were in meditation for like years and years and years,
and their crystals were like 20 times bigger than other people's crystals.
So we know that the more spiritual you are, the bigger your crystal is.
And we know what is fluoride do. It precipitates in the pineal.
Exactly. What happens if you were to take a crystal and you were to coat that crystal?
Why do you think in semiconductors the crystals have to be clear?
You can't put like your fingerprint on it, right? Because then it won't communicate anymore.
So each cell in our body, our cell membrane is composed of...
And what do they admit? Even 2G vibrated cells and caused them to break.
30 years ago scientists said, don't roll this out. It breaks the DNA.
So when you combine fluoride in chlorine and bromine...
Which is a green crystal. If you take a crystal and then you coat it,
and then you coat it again and you coat it again with toxic materials and you coat it again,
what have you just done? You've taken away that person's ability to have a conscious...
You've jammed it. Or you've jammed it up.
And what that does is it leads them towards the dark side, leads them towards alcohol.
It makes them make the decisions of not waking up.
If you notice though, see what we're doing is we're giving people the root cause.
What I just went over with the antidepressants and the water and the GMOs
and all the other stuff in the prescription medications, this is the answer.
I mean, all I'm doing is just saying, hey, this is the solution. Avoid these things.
Is there any way to detoxify the pineal once it's already been coated?
Iodine. Iodine is the only thing that's been shown to detoxify the pineal.
And we're finding out more and more and more stuff about iodine.
And we're also seeing more attacks on iodine as well. Iodine is a crystal in itself.
It's a purple crystal.
It's a purple crystal. And if you ever look at the chakras, the highest chakra is the purple chakra.
Right up at the third eye level.
And that shows how ancients didn't have all the answers, but they just knew what was working.
Well, they didn't have all of the fluoride and all that stuff anyway.
They lived in nature. They ate nature. It was a perfect balance.
I mean, what we've gone to is from nature science and living to man-made.
Now, I was about to say, notice the more technology we get, the dumber we are.
I mean, it's admitted.
That's done on purpose. I mean, look at all the kids on their iPhones and iPads all day long every day.
And remember, Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, none of them would let their children have iPads and phones.
That's on record.
Yes.
Yes.
Steve Jobs said, are you crazy?
Do you think I'm crazy?
So it's about detoxification.
It's about learning the truth, understanding the truth, knowing what to look out for, and modifying your diet.
I mean, this information is priceless because...
You're right. We're on the break.
But also think about iodine.
It's not just a crystal, but it's...
What's that term where it's like beyond a noble gas?
It's sublimate.
It's actually a question.
It's like I dream a genie, but it also goes into an air form.
It's like I dream a genie. You put it on the ground and just go...
Yeah, it just sublimates in the air.
My Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The Super Blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back. It's MycoZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with even bigger, organic, manufacturer, and producer.
Scalability, but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX.
Now it's the other side of the equation. Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX plus now from the InfoWars store.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from InfoWarsStore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Now, I'm going to get into breaking news and some other key areas with Roger Stone.
I'm going to co-host about 30 minutes with him with, of course, Dr. Groups as well as we can take phone calls, because this is a whole area of natural health and things that Stone's really into.
But I'm here to tell you, folks, it's scientific literature about the pineal gland, it's scientific literature about geese having magnetic cells in their brain,
fish have it, whales have it, humans have it, some humans have it more than others.
I mean, it's like journal of nature, look it up for yourself. It's amazing.
Just type in magnetic cells in birds' brains, help them navigate. That's how, I mean, a hummingbird can navigate 3,000 miles from Oklahoma down to Guatemala.
Bees, butterflies.
Yeah, butterflies, 4,000 miles.
All animals, I think, have that run off of that. Unfortunately, you're seeing whales running into beaches now, you're seeing all kinds of things.
Oh, when the Navy tests that sonar, you'll have thousands of whales, sometimes thousands of miles away just killing themselves.
Yeah, and they don't even care about it. I do want to say, though, listen, we talked a lot about fertility, infertility, sterility.
And one of the reasons we developed the super male vitality and the super female vitality was to help people.
And we've got thousands and thousands and thousands of reviews on that. And it is serious. Listen, you don't have to be trying to have a baby even.
I'm pretty positive right now, 98, 99% of the people out there right now, including children, are suffering from hormone deficiencies or hormone irregularities.
You got me on the high quality X2 five years ago, and I barely work out now. I was working out harder than couldn't lose weight.
I lost like 30, 40 pounds. But you said in three weeks, watch out, you'll detox, stuff will come out of your skin.
You're going to kind of feel bad for a week. It happened. I feel like I had to hang over. And it was like crazy what it's done for me.
And then I still remember to take it here and there and people ask why my children are glowing, everything.
And it's like it gave me so much energy. But then I've got to remember to stay on it.
Well, the deal is, I mean, all the women out there are suffering from all of these hormone disruption scenarios.
It's really hard living in the environment and I didn't even get into the possibility of the chemtrails, which I've heard from some researchers that could be having an effect on our hormone.
By the way, I want to go to these calls. I had a guy confront me in the airplane and then at the baggage claim, going, is this jet spraying chemicals on people?
Are you part of it? And I said they have aerosolized aircraft that do it.
The Department of Energy administers all these classified programs. The Chinese are controlling their weather. The Russians are.
It's called geoengineering. I've had the father of weather weapons. He's like, I got to shut up races.
And so, no, we're not saying the average passenger liner is doing it. We're not saying there isn't real ice condensation.
But NASA reports much of the world's 30% darker now just from the jet trails themselves.
So the ice crystals are persisting longer now. All airline pilots agreeing something's going on in the atmosphere itself now that regular just condensation is persisting.
What's going on?
Alex, it's not just we've been talking about an attack on us, but it hasn't been just an attack on us. It's been an attack on the environment.
It's been an attack on the earth itself. The water all over the world is contaminated right now.
Yeah, see, that's from London Guardian. 20% darker. NASA came out two years ago and now said 31%.
The air is contaminated. You know, we're looking at multiple things that are contaminated around. And that's just why I look.
That's why I chose the top herbs that have been studied for years and years and years to help regulate naturally your hormones and your body.
Yes, it's going to be hard to you can take all those things we talked about and eliminate all those in your life and slowly clean your body up all the time.
As a matter of fact, now we know iodine actually helps detoxify fluoride bromine, chlorine, mercury.
If there's one info wars life product you use, it's X2 folks X2 info wars life.com or triple A 2533139. We've got 25% off super male super female vitality.
We've got the stuff for knocking out the bad fungus mold and yeast in your gut. My goes the X plus now stronger lower price.
That's now back in stock, but we need to bring in a lot of money as well to find this operation.
A lot of these specials are about to have to end like $50 off in the Lexapure Breeze four stage home purifier blows away the competition.
I want to go to calls now for Dr. Group and also Roger Stone coming up. We'll all ride shotgun together, but the ultimate game changer right now.
Super male vitality. Get that today info or store.com and force live.com or triple A 2533139.
All right, our phone system can take 1000 calls at a time, but we got 14 calls or something here where we're going to try to go to Gabriel.
Samuel, Ty, Matt, Steven, Alexander, Mike, Steve, Kevin, Matthew, Chris, Josh. Let me see.
Alexander says this is an attorney in California.
I want to talk about the pineal gland. So since we were talking about that, let's talk to Alexander in California. You're on the air.
Hello, Alex. And congratulations, doctor for revealing to the public the fact that the pineal gland does have a crystal in it. And that is our unique ability.
I wanted to hear that these cell phones. Let's see if his phone comes back.
If we had, if we had finally tuned our pineal gland, we could be communicating telephatically. We are spiritual beings. We are very powerful being and the 1% is trying to deny that ability to us.
We have to have faith. We have to develop that and you're helping us do that. I want to congratulate you for that. It's excellent work that you do, Alex.
And one thing, I would like more stories about the Sandy Hook hoax. Please, please don't let that go. That's so relevant. That's so important. And you're the only man that has the courage to do it.
Well, listen, God bless your brother. Here's the deal. I don't know exactly what happened to Sandy Hook. We've had debates on both sides. Clearly they seized on it. They politicized it.
They had people that were scripted with PR to give the anti-gun response and froze out people that were pro-gun.
They then misrepresent what I'm saying and say, nobody died or I don't feel, and then they try to shut us down.
But absolutely, do government stage things like the babies and the incubators? You bet. Thank you, Alexander, for your kind words. Is that a group?
No, thanks a lot. I appreciate it. That was a good comment.
And we're moving quicker. I pledge to start taking more calls. The producers just put up with me in there. They've got to start telling me what to do because I want to take calls every day, guys.
How about Samuel in Oklahoma who has a question?
Samuel, you're on the air. Thanks for calling.
Hi, Alex. Hi, Dr. Group. I've got my Survival Shield X2 iodine and my Biotrusillenium. I've done a lot to clean out my system.
I wanted to ask you particularly about dental products. I've finally gotten all the mercury fillings out. It took several years to do that, and I feel like that made an impact.
But every time you go and even for a cleaning, they want to put fluoride on your teeth. What about that?
Well, you try to find a biological dentist. There's more and more of them now, and I think there's organizations online where you can actually go and look up and put your state in there in your city and try to find one.
Or call around and just ask. I can tell you, I have a biological dentist, and there's more and more and more demand.
Isn't it crazy that they actually taught them to put mercury in people's mouths? How crazy is that?
It doesn't surprise me, though. But yes, you're doing everything right. You're learning about the truth. You got them out. You got them removed. You're on the iodine.
It can take up to maybe a couple years to completely detoxify. Mercury is stored in your fat tissue. It can be stored all over your body, but most of it's in your brain.
So I'm glad to hear that you've taken the necessary actions to do that and just let them know. I mean, educate them at the dental office and just bring some reports.
Well, it's all free market. If you don't want them and everybody starts doing it, they'll be phased out, and it's already happening.
And what it's really bad for is the dentists that are breathing that all day when they're putting them in. I mean, that's why dentists, I think, of all medical people have the lowest live expectancy.
It causes a massive brain damage.
Yes, and all the dental techs as well. I mean, I think that somebody did a study that even if you're sitting in the waiting room at a dental office, you're breathing a certain amount of mercury fumes.
And there's nothing electrochemically. In fact, Guy's search engine, just in YouTube, University of Calgary, mercury brain tissue.
And you see regular heavy metal. Here's the brain tissue. It kind of hurts it. One little micron, and it just goes...
Short circuits, everything. It causes an electrochemical explosion. So the nerves blow up. It's like...
Here it is. They found it. Boom. What a great crew. They are so fast, it just makes my head spin. Then I get real OCD, like it's almost telepathy.
I'm like, instantly! I just thought it! Put it on screen. Yeah. Yeah, so they show it right here. Here it is. Now they put it just a tiny little...
Boom. It just completely...
You see that little happy brain cells? Just a nice day. I'm looking for something to touch. I'm looking for some communication. And then they put a little bit of mercury there, and bye-bye. Time to die.
So let's go ahead and go back to more of the phone calls. We have over 45 seconds to break. I'm going to come back. Boom, boom, boom. Roger Stone loves taking your calls.
So we'll ride shotgun with Roger Stone. We'll get out of here at the bottom of the hour so you can cover all the topics he's got.
I've also got to mix in some stuff for him. Like, the main lawyer lobbyist investigator, first hired by the family and investigator, Seth Rich, gets shot twice in the back and run over by a car in a DC parking garage.
I didn't even know about it till today. It happened a week ago. That is crazy. But it's not crazy. I mean, we know.
Oh, wait a minute. You might get sued for saying that's a little suspicious. I mean, you're a conspiracy theorist. We think that's suspicious.
I don't think anything suspicious anymore. It's ridiculous is what it is.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year. And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies.
With Z Shield and InfoWarsLife.com.
The best at an extremely low price? This is it.
Today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We're taking your phone calls. Roger Stone's going to be popping in with us here in just a moment.
I was just reading there in a break, Atlanta Blackstar.
Alex Jones says Africa should have been like Wakanda once Evil Columns were kicked out.
And I'm saying according to the leftist.
And then they don't tell you that at the same rent.
I was playing clips of the communist leader who's number three in the government, the defense minister and the current president of South Africa saying we're going to take the whites land and we're going to kill you.
And no whites should be allowed in government. I'm just saying that's racist, that's crazy, that's stupid.
Whites are being exterminated in Zimbabwe, Rhodesia, you name it.
The countries are collapsing once that happens.
And they don't show that I showed people saying kill the white farmers.
Jones says whites better get out because racist blacks are going to kill you.
Yeah, and I played the clip.
But see, the media now is about lying. I mean, they're even getting like local newspapers to lie now, Dr. Group.
I know that's why it's so important to know the truth all the time.
It's, you know, they're not saying how important it is that we're all brothers and sisters.
I mean, honestly, it doesn't matter what the color of your skin is.
Well, it does with fluoride. It studies it's twice as bad for blacks.
Well, that does.
But even viruses and vaccines and all that stuff is different for different types of...
What I'm saying is...
We're all under attack.
We're all under attack.
But I'm the one with blackgenocide.com and all the other groups and all the reverends trying to follow the black kids getting aborted.
You don't see that out of the cool, trendy liberal black sites led by Muslims.
Actually, it's documented that blacks are attacked much more with the syphilis vaccination, all the different vaccinations.
Blacks have been used for multiple top secret testing projects.
Which we expose, but I'm not virtue signaling, to a bunch of racist black people brainwashed by the left to hate me because I'm white.
Just because a bunch of you black people out there act like you're in the black KKK doesn't mean I'm going to stoop down the level you are.
You got that?
But I will run my mouth against black racists in South Africa murdering whites in mass.
You bet I will.
Go ahead. Sorry.
Just more the reason why we need to control our stress levels and do some good exercises.
Well, I'm sick of it.
They get Reverend Childers back on.
By the way, he's got one going every month anyway.
We just forget all these great guests.
You know, he exposes the black genocide going on.
And I'm virtue signaling, oh, look, I'm against the black genocide.
I mean, really, half the blacks get aborted in this country.
And then white racists go, well, Alex, see, you ought to be for that.
And Margaret Sanger just see the blacks are bad.
You know, the left that runs with the Margaret Sanger groups that wants to kill them runs the leftist ideology turning them into racist so they can't be part of the American system and be successful.
It's a total pincer attack.
Just because people are brainwashed, victims trying to hurt me, that may not buy into it.
Now, a group of black racists try to kill me.
I got firearms.
But the whole point is that I'm sad they were brainwashed.
It is unfortunate that, you know, the attack on on pregnant women and especially minority pregnant women with their they're being utilized as test subjects with all the vaccines.
And there was a recent article that said it's fine and it's safe to give a vaccine to a pregnant woman and all this.
When when the insert says they can kill you.
And here's the thing.
I mean, these minority women that are just trying to do the best they can.
And then they they have a baby and what happens with the baby?
Well, first of all, Planned Parenthood, which which that's a whole nother thing.
But then they have a baby and what are the what does the state give them to give them soy formulas?
The the worst conditions for the baby?
I mean, it's all, you know, if we give, you're going to support us later on.
If you give you, we're going to support us later on.
But in reality, it's about, let's have another person that we can control.
100% babies that are on formula on the average formula, like their brains are third smaller.
Right.
And then the mothers are severely nutrient deficient.
15 point IQ reduction.
If you don't have iodine supplementation, the U.S. government studies look it up.
Then you had another 15 point reduction on average from fluoridation.
You got a person that would have 130 IQ.
Yeah, but the fluoridated water that they were giving for babies was allowed under the welfare program,
but regular purified water wasn't.
I saw that.
That's why they even produced a special fluoride water for the little black babies.
They're further giving lobotomies.
But we're not going to hear about that from the movie Black Panther.
Why didn't Wakanda warn you?
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, fluorolife,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLive.com.
And Roger Stone and my good buddy, Dr. Everett Group, the smartest guys I know,
at the Global Healing Center.
You can find out more at GlobalHealingCenter.com.
Now, I've got at least Gabriel, Ty, Matt, Stephen, Mike, Kevin, Matt, Chris, Josh.
I want to get to all these callers.
But then I've got huge Seth Rich news that I want to get into.
And we've got other big breaking news with Roger Stone.
Roger, we're going to take calls for a while.
I appreciate you letting us kamikaze in on you.
But what else is coming up?
I know you've always got a full platter.
Well, Alex, as I mentioned to you, the heat here in the New York Bureau of Infowars is not functioning.
And many Americans don't realize how cold New York City can be at this time of year.
And you could literally hang meat in this room.
But we're going to be here for the Alex Jones show.
And we're excited about it.
Well, that sounds like my offices anyways.
I mean, we try to keep this cold, if you notice.
Well, I like that too, because you see like Dick Nixon, I'm a sweater.
And it's very hard to focus on your communications when you're drenched in sweat as Nixon learned in the 1960 debate.
So I like the air conditioning turned down.
Absolutely.
This is unbelievable.
We're going to get into a lot of stuff with you.
Let's start going to some phone calls here.
Let's go ahead and talk to Ty in Austin, Texas.
Let's talk about blockchain.
Go ahead.
Hey, gentlemen, thanks for taking the call.
Alex, I love what you do.
Dr. Group, I was pleased to hear you, even if it was just in my opinion, a little bit of a tease.
Talk about your experience when you were away learning about blockchain.
And I don't think people get that a certain Ivy League institution.
Yeah, I don't think people get that product is coming to market this year very soon.
Some of it here in the spring.
Projects like Populous, Attic, Veritasium.
I don't care what area you want to pick.
Blockchain is about to revolutionize and change our world for the better.
And Group, I would love to hear you and Max Kaiser have a talk and go into it in a little bit more depth whenever Alex feels like you guys got it.
Yeah, Max Kaiser is a hard guy to get on the show.
He's always wanted to come on and he'd come on from different countries he was in.
And now he is a busy little beaver.
And he told me some of his personal stuff.
There's nothing to do with us, but he's just got a lot of stuff to manage.
All right, thank you, Ty.
You want to talk about blockchain?
No, I've been heavily involved in it for probably about a year and a half now.
I look at the ICOs.
I follow it pretty closely.
I invest in a lot of different crypto tokens.
We're looking at ways to benefit from that, whether it's data storage technology,
whether it's new at, like he said, at X platforms like that.
I would suggest that people go online.
There's a lot of good YouTube crypto.
Well, they're definitely trying to crush it right now, but I don't think they'll be able to crush it forever.
Let's go to another one here real quick and pop it anytime you want, Stone.
They're in your redoubt.
I want to go to a caller in Nova Scotia, Canada, then we'll go to another caller in Canada.
We've got a bunch of callers from Canada.
Let's go ahead and talk to Steven in Canada.
Go ahead.
Thanks, Alex.
It's a pleasure talking to you guys.
I'll be quick with a couple of questions.
I guess more aiming at Dr. Group.
I grew up Farm Boy on Wellwater.
I moved to Toronto.
Long story short, back to what you said, like, baby's costing money in the future.
In a sense, they told me my sperm count was low.
Eventually, you know, they said, oh, you know, pay 10, 20 grand.
You can have a kid this route.
My wife and I just kept, you know, plugging away, so to speak, quote-unquote.
Be brave.
Singling.
And yeah, we just had our, we eventually, you know, the strong sperm came through.
You know, again, I, you know, I just curious on what, you know, when you named your top 10,
I believe you said Florida was one, how you kind of drive at that.
And then, you know, how long would you say, you know, I guess, you know, 20 or 30 years obviously would be worse.
Like, would you say it can really head home in two years, five years of fluoride use in the brain and the system?
With everything combined, I mean, we're looking at a, we already are in a massive sterile population right now.
People are having an extremely hard time getting pregnant.
And most of the time it's the guy.
He actually had a fertility, natural fertility program years ago.
And it was amazing.
We had people come to us from all over the world that spent $250,000 on IVF and everything.
And it's very easy.
I mean, it really is very simple.
Isn't it just purified water, organic, good air, exercising, getting good iodine?
I mean, in mainline studies, it says women and men that can't have children, number one, things iodine.
But you have to die without it.
But what we would do is repair the DNA and the genes and all that stuff first.
So we would take them through an intestinal cleanse with oxypowder and the good probiotics.
Then we would have them do three liver cleanses because the liver processes estrogen and helps with your hormone production.
You have to flush that out.
Yeah, you have to do liver, three liver and gallbladder cleanses.
Then we would have them do a harmful organism cleanse.
Then we would have them do a heavy metal and chemical cleanse.
90% of the time they change their diet like Alex says.
They start exercising. The good news is the body wants to heal.
It wants to be able to be fertile.
So it heals itself very rapidly.
So even if you have 20, 30 years of damage, you can repair that extremely fast.
Just like the liver can grow back.
That's the good news.
Thank you, Stephen.
Thank you so much for the calls.
Great point.
I know you're a big believer in cleanses as well.
Mr. Stone.
Well, I must tell you, I think the Info Wars iodine formula is pure genius.
It is the best thing on the market.
All the proven needs for iodine across the board for immunity, for well-being,
for strong, you know, the heart and the blood system and so on.
What I really like generally speaking overall, as you know about the Info Wars products,
is somebody has very good doctor and others have very thoughtfully fused the oldest,
most proven Chinese herbology, things that we've known for centuries,
the role of Jin Seng, the role of orange peel, the role of all these elements.
And they fuse it with the most modern and technologically more knowledgeable
nutraceuticals to give you a balanced formula for immunity, for example.
In immune wall, an excellent example.
And that's why I like these products.
You know, I have been treated by a Chinese herbologist for 30 years.
I have acupuncture treatments just for balance and prophylactically as I have for many years.
And I've used all the kind of supplements that you can buy on the market of various,
usually German-made, but Chinese herbs that are marketed around the globe.
And I can tell you that the Info Wars quality is actually better in your products.
Well, that's the big secret is that we manufacture with group and others that are top firms
will actually put, you know, if something's 50 bucks, there's like $25 or $20 a product in it.
If something's $19, there's like $10 a product.
If there's, I mean, we put a lot of product in and these companies, other than group,
because he's got to tell us how to do this or like, whoa, nobody puts this much in.
Well, no, that's what we're actually, we're not seven times markup like the average company.
No, if you go to a drugstore or a grocery store or something like that,
you're going to look at a nutraceutical or a dietary supplement.
Most of the time it's going to be a man-made mineral anyway, and not a natural mineral or whatever they're going to take.
You're going to get fillers. You're going to get fillers. You're going to get inferior products.
They put fillers in there. They put crap in there. You can go to CVS. You can go to Walmart.
You'll find products that say they do the same things as the InfoWars products.
They'll be more expensive, but the quality of them, the ingredients will be less pure and less developed.
Well, that's what we find is crazy. He's not kidding. I mean, you know this.
Most of the products has like a dollar a product and then it's all marketing.
And these companies are like, you're going to put out a sleep pay that's $19 and that's $5 a product.
Some of our stuff has a 150-200% markup like that.
But still, you know, I was like, yeah, the average melatonin is a dollar to go in here and then everybody sells it for $19.
Well, I'm going to put everything in there and then sell it for $19.
And we haven't even talked about the factor that every single manufacturer out there runs all of their finished goods through an x-ray machine
to check for any type of metal fragments that might be in there from the machine.
And what they also do is when all the raw materials come in, they either steam sterilize them
or they put them in a big microwave radiation chamber and nuke them.
And those are the 99% of the supplement.
And doesn't that then kill any cofactors, break the ring structures?
So basically just isn't fresh anymore.
It's like microwaves. I mean, most countries ban, well, Russia ban microwaves way back when.
Oh, speaking of Russia, we have big raking Russian news.
On the other side, I'm not meaning to do this as a cliffhanger, but it's big news.
With Roger Stone, your phone calls as well.
We'll get into this main Seth Rich investigator shot twice in the back by a commando from the Department of Energy.
But it's no big deal. No big deal. Don't investigate.
It's libertyoncall.org.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat
are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Let's go to Devin in Florida. Devin in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing.
Angelou's on the fence by it because I've got caveman, superman of vitality, secret swell, vitamin and infusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the type of listener that makes it all possible. Which nutraceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest. That's amazing.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible. I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys, I love the InfoWars through and I just want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at InfoWarsLife.com.
Win Win InfoWarsLife.com
That's right, some good old, good old Waylon. You know, one day the mountain might get him but the law never will.
Dr. Gribbs tried to shotgun with us. We got Roger Stone up at the New York Command Center.
The Daily Callers reporting on us and the Washington Post got almost no coverage.
A week ago, the main investigator that was first hired by the family worked with them all of it.
He gets shot in the back twice by a Marine from the Department of Energy, runs over him in a parking garage.
He believes he's there to get a secret pickup on evidence of Hillary and the Russians.
That's even in the, but this, this is nowhere.
A little blurb in the Washington Post, little blurb, you know, Daily Caller.
I want to get Roger Stone's take on that.
Speaking of Russia, getting along with Russia is a good thing and there's hysterical news everywhere.
Trump just endorsed the dictator and the fake election, which international observers say it's not a fake election.
It's not like China where it's the Communist Party, Alex, you know, the guy of life. It's just crazy.
So here's Trump respond with a tweet.
I called President Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his election victory.
In past, Obama called him also. The fake news media is crazed because they want me to excoriate him.
They are wrong. Getting along with Russia and others is a good thing.
Yes, Roger Stone, a good thing, right? They have nuclear weapons, right?
Donald J. Trump, peacemaker. Look, it's a perilous world.
These people are armed to the teeth and they have a vicious ideology and they've already declared essentially their intention to bury us.
This is the rebirth of communism with another label, just as brutal, just as oppressive, just as opposed to our idea of liberty and freedom.
Trump has no illusions about Putin. He doesn't think he's a great guy.
He's been briefed by the Spooks who've told him how Putin rigged the election, which he most certainly did.
It's a totalitarian single-party system. Of course he rigged it.
See, we're having this debate here. It's a parliamentary system with like nine or ten different parties.
Putin is really popular. I've read the international studies.
So you and David Knight, I'm not disagreeing with you because I respect you guys.
But I mean, I do disagree. I'm not saying I'm sure you're wrong.
How is it me groveling to Russia to say he won by 76 percent?
I guess what I'm saying, Alex, is that you're right.
He certainly has his faction and it's very large, policed by the government.
But what he does is he oppresses the candidates trying to run against him, throws them in jail, has their supporters petition carriers beaten, rousting their headquarters.
I mean, wiretapping them. They make it impossible.
It sounds like what Hillary did. It's true. We know Hillary did that here.
So you're accusing Putin of Hillary tactics. That authoritarian. Wow.
Well, I mean, look, it was interesting because the great brouhaha that everybody tries to stir up about the WikiLeaks' disclosures, as you know, is meant to distract from the incredible things we learned.
Like the fact that Hillary Clinton was knee-deep in the dirty tricks that were being used to bust up Donald Trump's rallies.
Wasn't it Nixon who went down for dirty tricks?
Now you have Hillary, you know, up to her nose.
So all those other revelations that came from those incredible public disclosures,
roiled their campaign and everything in it was newsworthy and authentic and correct. So we have to distract from that history of corruption and try to cheat the system and blame the Russians.
Roger, by the way, that is a sharp-looking gangster hat. Wow.
Well, I was going to say, I haven't converted to Orthodox Judaism, but I do like their hat. And a rabbi in Brooklyn gave me this hat, who's a great friend.
But it does have that kind of rake-ish, frank, nitty look.
That is a good-looking hat.
Good boy.
You know those Orthodox Jews aren't supposed to have any style, but that's really stylish.
I went in it.
Oh, this hat looks really cool.
How many hats does Roger have? Roger, how many hats do you have?
Oh, God. See, I started collecting hats when I was very young, and I still have most of them.
I used to scour thrift shops and, you know, vintage clothing.
What's the name of that hat? That looks like a $500 hat.
This is a fedora, Alex. Now, that should not be, for example, confused with...
There you go. Now, this is a Humberg.
I don't like the Humberg. Let's go back to the other one.
Humberg's not bad. It's like you're like a British detective or something with that.
I want to see the fedora.
He needs even more room than a...
The black fedora, like, increases your IQ from 150 to 200.
Then, you know, I'm thinking about...
That's your little communist bomber hat right there.
There you are with your top hat, ridiculous.
That's your straw Florida hat. Now, what is that one?
Now, this is the hat that Alan Dulles wore.
This is the hat that Dwight Eisenhower wore.
It's a formal Humberg. And they're very dressy, for example.
It's a nice hat. Can we please now go back to the other one? I like it.
See, you go right for the gangster. It looks slick. I don't know.
You like that gangster.
Do you have any official hats that were worn by any, like, Nixon or anybody that...
Yes, actually, I do. I have a fedora, which was once owned by Al Jolson.
And his name is in Boston.
All right, we've got to stop you back to serious issues. I didn't mean to distract this.
Let's get into the big enchilada. We're going to go back to calls.
There you go with the pith helmet, in case you're in Brazil, hacking through the...
Let's get serious. What in Hades is going on with this top investigator
shot twice in the back and run over at a drop off
where he thought he was getting papers with Hillary Clinton, the Russians.
What in the world intel do you have on this?
I mean, the Seth Rich thing is really getting suspicious now.
What's extraordinary, Alex, is the way the mainstream media tries to stifle
any discussion of Seth Rich.
This, by the way, is a Scottish battle hat. Just one.
Look, stop. We're going to go to break.
Hold on. We're going to go break and talk back.
We got what you get doing.
We'll come back on the other side.
By the way, he was shot in the butt and in the leg and he was bending over.
He actually had his dots on his dog in his hand as well.
Exactly. When I say back, he was shot from the back.
It's crazy. He runs with the dog and the guys run over twice.
But it's like nothing suspicious.
Department of Energy Marine, no big deal. Go away now.
So we're going to come back with that and I promise right to your calls.
I promise. In fact, up next is Josh in Carolina,
Chris in Virginia, Matthew in New Hampshire, Mike in Texas,
and Matt and Gabriel and everybody.
We're going to get to all those callers, at least.
Now, is that like a Robin Hood hat?
It's kind of a German hat. Is that Bavarian?
So Roland is a Bavarian hat.
That's what they called the Trollian hat.
Very popular in the United States in the 38, 30s.
No, I like that too. I like a Bavarian hat.
Yeah, so in any event.
Sometimes, like green ones look like your Robin Hood.
You know what you should do, Alex?
You always come out with a t-shirt,
you always come out with your own beret with a thing right here.
And so everybody can start wearing them all over the place and just have...
We need something to make these George Soros and Hillary losses.
We call it the Rob Do Hat, actually.
We have a prototype of it.
Both Rob and I wear that hat.
It was worn by Sir Robert Montgomery when he won Helpline World War II.
Turn to the sides so I can see the Bavarian hat.
I've got my hat and ten full hats.
Yeah, that hat gives the fedora a run for its money.
Yeah, good. All right.
We know what you like.
I like Jewish hats and German hats.
We'll be right back.
We wear mini hats.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, the playtime is over now.
And I started it as my fault, but Roger's really smiling over here.
So we're going to be back with a guy shot in the back.
It's a no-brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Hey, how you doing?
Good, brother.
I just recently started using your products.
Everything you said about them is correct.
Me and my wife both use a lot of them and made a lot of changes in our lives here.
Well, thank you, brother.
It's because it also funds our operation.
But doing that, I know I've got to have the highest quality.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
We do the super male and the super female vitality.
Big changes, a lot of energy.
We've gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots.
I don't have money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs.
Harvested around the planet and then concentrated or maximum potency.
They want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff.
Just cover that up for a while, but then burn you out in my experience
whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source.
So it's pretty exciting and I love it.
Visit infowarsalife.com today to secure your super male vitality
and other powerful products from InfoWars Life.
The reason InfoWars Life has five star ratings on major third party sites
is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this.
My family takes this and then it funds the operation
with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference.
I don't feel good. The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually have just run out of my super female.
I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good.
And I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the super female is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2.
One product that I would say is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine.
Survival Shield X2, it's got a five star rating.
It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting era one, it's Alex Jones.
You know, we've been talking about censorship a lot from the globalist arm moving against our free speech.
I have news here so over the top, so devastating, so insane that I'm going to get to your calls
and I'm going to finish up with Roger and let him cover some of his news
and at the end of the next segment, I'm going to cover it with Dr. Group.
But the group's here staying late because you've got to go back to Houston to take your calls.
We're going to do that.
But this band on YouTube is so big, it affects us, it affects you, and this has happened to us personally.
Now, and it's in Bloomberg, I'm going to cover it next segment, but we have the inside story from Spikes Tactical.
They're listed in the article. All firearms, except by law enforcement and military, are to be banned off YouTube.
You show it, you talk about it unless you're Hollywood, then you can show guns and shooting.
Total discrimination, this is like banning the word that's associated with the dictator of China.
So YouTube expands restrictions on videos featuring firearms and firearms accessories.
Just says you will not have them and just banned one of our big sponsors, SpikesTactical.com.
Promo Code Alex, they got the best AR-15s out there, military everybody agrees.
They're very affordable and they're trying to shut them down.
So that's coming up next segment.
Roger, this is a very serious issue, take it off.
Come on, this is going to be on the news.
I really want your Sutherland State, come on, stop it please.
And now he's wearing a cowboy hat.
Okay, what is the name of that one?
Did you know YouTube's banned hats?
You can't show any hats.
Here's the point, Alex.
The reason that they did that policy was to ban a video that you and I made at a shooting range in Austin.
Now that day, I wore what you said was the biggest cowboy hat you'd ever seen.
And I said, no, I actually have one that's bigger.
This is it.
So in any event, let's go to Seth Richie.
What is the name of that horrible thing?
This is Tom Mix. Tom Mix was the first cowboy, a singing cowboy movie star.
That's what I was about to say.
That's a really old fashioned cowboy hat.
Yes, very 30s Texas.
It's a great look.
Well, you better be in charge when you walk around with that.
Yeah, there's no question.
This is how the El Padrn wore this hat in the Texas range.
In any event, let's get to Seth Richie.
Yeah, no, this is really big because this is so serious.
Well, you've seen the report, but recap it and give us your take.
Well, here's the most extraordinary thing, and that is a barrier in the mainstream media to anyone who wants to talk about this.
This is precisely why they're cracking down on our content because we will discuss it.
And there's just too many anomalies in this case.
First of all, you have Bill Binney and Ray McGudder and other respected former counterterrorism IT wizards for these agencies,
telling us that there's far more evidence that the material that was hacked from the DNC was not hacked at all,
but downloaded to a zip drive or a drive.
Sure, the download speed was six times at the time when anybody could do.
He's the former head of the NSA technical, so he is the wizard,
and they've looked at it absolutely, and then you've got all the Debbie Washington Schultz in the missing laptops
and the Awan brothers and blah, blah, blah.
But now the guy investigating it gets shot twice in the back like Seth Rich and then run over by a car, lives.
But when we go out and say that, they're going to say,
ah, you see, it's another one of those Sean Hannity, Alex Jones conspiracy theories.
There is, there's a mainstream media conspiracy here not to talk about this case despite all of the compelling facts.
I was going to say, it's sensational when the main investigator in DC is going to do a pickup of data, lifts up the cone where it's supposedly at,
gets shot twice in the back from behind, runs with his dog, gets run over and still lives,
and then the guy is a commando marine from the Department of Energy.
What's clear from the beginning is that Seth Rich has motive.
He's a progressive. He's a Bernie Sanders supporter.
Although technically as a DNC employee, he's not supposed to be sorting anybody. His heart is with Bernie.
He sees the way Hillary and Deborah Wasserman are stealing anything in the building that isn't nailed down.
That's his motive. He's motivated by his ideology.
He sees these people cheating the movement that he belongs to politically.
And that's why he gives the documents for most probably to Assange.
I based that solely on Assange's extraordinary interview where he said repeatedly when asked about Rich,
our sources, I'm not saying Mr. Rich was a source or he wasn't, but our sources take their lives in their hands when they cooperate with us.
He said it three times and then he posted this reward or a reward for information that leads to the...
And now his mother says she's suing Fox News because she's hurt after her son died and the media coverage hurt.
Well, I'm sorry. It's a public thing. He got killed. You had a reward out.
Of course, it's unsolved murder. We can speculate all day.
No, no, but this is pivotal because you see their whole shutting you up is based on the family's request for privacy.
Well, the right to privacy is very important, but it's not more important than the right to the truth.
This was an assassination. This kid was murdered for political reasons because he was giving up the inside on how Hillary...
Perhaps. Perhaps. And we have a right to say that.
But now that people are getting shot in the back and there's lawsuits and everything.
I mean, that adds a lot of fuel to this.
There's no question. Why does the DC police still have his laptops and nobody can see them?
Which would prove that he was in touch with WikiLeaks if he is the leaker.
I have no inside knowledge.
And then you've got Schultz threatening saying, I'll cut off DC's funding if you don't give me the other laptops and the police say no.
Do we even know who has those now?
Well, the Capitol Hill police chief is actually a patriot and he's a very feisty guy who does it by the book.
And when Deborah Wasserman Schultz tried to run over him in a hearing, telling him that essentially threatened him if her laptops were not returned in the entire Juan Brother mess.
This is another huge story that we have worked with others in the alternative media to cover that the mainstream media just doesn't seem to get on page one.
These two guys are most likely Pakistani intelligence from a number of points of view.
And they rob not just money, but they rob the identity and all the personal information of 130 congressmen.
And then they're using it as leverage to blackmail them, essentially.
That's all on infowars.com, newswars.com, the video of it all.
They don't want you to know our prayers go out to the ladies family and her.
You know, your son's in an unsolved murder and worked for the DNC and we have a right to look at it. Now the guy investigating got shot twice in the back and run over.
I don't understand why wouldn't she want more knowledge out there?
A top DNC crisis manager took over about two weeks after.
Clipter, absolutely.
Now that's the important thing. People need to understand the chain of events here.
Rich is murdered. Rich's father says publicly he wasn't robbed. His ring, his wallet, his jewelry all intact.
And they hire an investigator. Then suddenly the investigator is fired.
He's discharged and a crisis consultant who does work for the Democratic National Committee is hired.
At that point, their new strategy is to trot the family out saying, respect our privacy, ask no questions about this.
You're disgusting. You're a conspiracy. If you ask any reasonable question about this case, that's their whole, you know, a strategy.
And we've covered it at InfoWars, but, you know, where are some of the others who should be following this story?
We're going to break. Coming back in a few final calls about the group. Boom, boom, boom. I promise your calls briefly.
We've got huge specials running at InfoWarsStore.com. It's an ongoing battle to fund our operation.
Great supplements, great air filtration, great non-geoma heirloom seeds for the springtime coming up.
Super malvitality and superfumovitality. Amazing formula. 25% off the already discounted price.
Then we have keep your gut in check. Don't just go after the bad bacteria. Go up to the bad yeast mold.
All that garbage with MycoZX now plus stronger.
And we've got the new SuperBlue with the special SuperSol silver and it's got the iodine and all of that great spray into your mouth.
Great for topical disinfection as well.
For your hands.
For your hands. So it doesn't sterilize you like the alcohol based stuff is known to do.
Absolutely. And then we've also got the prebiotic fiber, best source prebiotic fiber from Amazing Sources.
That is about to sell out. It's got five star reviews.
Whatever you do, be sure and peruse InfoWarsStore.com.
Because without you, George Soros and Hillary Clinton, these globalists will defeat InfoWars.
And then next they're going to have their way with you and you know they want to.
I'm so excited. The new product at InfoWarsLife.com.
In a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it.
Which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at InfoWarsStore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
After being sold out for months, our best selling Super Blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock at InfoWarsStore.com.
The first shipment of Super Blue sold out in one week. I thought it would be a six month supply for listeners.
And since then, people are beating down our doors, wanting to be able to resupply their Super Blue.
Research across the board is clear. In fact, it's certified.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks.
That's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super Blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula.
It's loaded with good halogen iodide, so the bad halogen fluoride.
Super Blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in Super Blue chosen by our dental experts include silo toll, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver and more.
Learn more about InfoWarsLife Super Blue toothpaste at InfoWarsLife.com and support the InfoWars while you support healthy gums and teeth.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Imagine 10 years ago hearing that Charlie Chaplin would be arrested for making his great dictator comedy film Making Fun of Hitler.
Count Dacula, who's anti-Nazi, but if he was pro-Nazi, it's his right in the UK. They've got the same free speech as we do, supposedly.
He is facing one year in prison. I kept saying six months because the news said that. I had him on. It was yesterday. It's one year.
Now, YouTube bans firearms demo videos entering the gun control debate. Well, I mean, if gun companies want to demo their firearms and you're going to ban that, but Hollywood can show guns being misused.
This is so discriminatory. Let's go to these phone calls. Roger Stone's writing shotgun with us right now. Thank you for holding your role.
We need to ban video games then too, right? With all the guns that the kids are watching and shooting people.
Let's see. That's $100 billion a year or whatever. How big is this video games in the US alone? I know it's hundreds of billions worldwide, like 207.
Test my memory. Worldwide video game sales 2017. Let's look it up. We won't have numbers, obviously, this year. Let's go to these calls. That's a great point.
That's the point. You can ban that. You can ban everything, baby.
Major firearms sellers just doing demos that are mailing for the military law enforcement. That is unprecedented.
$108 billion. How much should I say? I said a hundred something. Was I right?
A hundred something billion, yeah.
I said a hundred. But did I guess it right? What did I say?
I don't know. I can't remember.
I'd like to test my memory. Okay. Here we go. Matthew and New Hampshire. Matthew and New Hampshire on the air. Go ahead.
Hi, I'm Dr. Drew and Roger. I'd just like to say I've been listening to you guys for a long time and big fan of what you guys do. Thank you.
Well, I'm a fan of you, buddy. We wouldn't hear one for you. So.
Well, thank you. I want to call in to tell you, I think you should push your shortwave broadcast more. It's a good way to reach out to the public.
Yeah, we pay like 15 grand a month to go out on global transmitters and we don't really get any money back from it.
But we get letters from, you know, kids in Africa and people in Asia and people in Latin America and missionaries and families and military that listen to it.
And a lot of folks in the US, we should talk about it more. The money goes back to getting everything transmitted out.
Satellite, shortwave, you name it.
Nice. Well, if you guys could increase that, I'm sure people would be willing to.
I don't have time to monitor it. How much does WWCR put us out? I think I'm paying to put out like six hours a day.
Yeah. Well, I get your show in its entirety from noon until four Eastern.
And then the rebroadcast your show again at nighttime on another frequency, but I don't generally hear that one.
But, you know, here in the world.
No, I hear you. I hear you. And you know, here's the deal. I can't pay for AM and FM stations and TV stations are picking us up.
But shortwave is the answer to the one that brought you WWCR.
I mean, basically we are still, we're the real voice of America. Voice of America didn't even on shortwave anymore.
So I would love to put Owen and David Knight on shortwave. That's a great idea.
Those are still big audiences and it's fun. We sell shortwaves, get one, show your kids soon and then basically like super power AM radio.
David Knight, you want to comment on that?
That's what I was thinking about David Knight.
See, I think I'm actually having a scene all moment. I was thinking about, hey, David Knight, well, he's wearing so many damn hats.
I can't tell David Knight wears a hat like that. What do you call that kind of hat?
This is called a baker hat or a news boy cap. For those who are just tuning in, it's about 10 degrees in this apartment where we have the M4 studio set up.
Did George Soros come and crap in the heating?
Yeah, you don't have one of those space heaters.
We have probably been targeted by a liberal democratic landlord.
No, I just think it's a malfunction of the boiler, but I must tell you, many people don't realize how cold New York and that part of the country gets at this time of year.
Wait, you just flipped up. Didn't you tell me that it's gotten so bad you are being thrown out of your apartment?
Well, that was my old apartment. This is an undisclosed location because the streets of New York are really unfortunately not safe for me anymore.
There's a 50-50 chance that the person coming up to you will say, tell Alex Jones I love him. I love everything you've done for Trump.
I love the president. Can I have a selfie?
And then the other half of the people who want to yell at you, traitor, Russian, just nonsense.
And then the people who want to scream at you that you're going to jail.
And then a few people who want to physically confront you.
Now, when I was having dinner with my wife and my children and my grandchildren at an Italian restaurant in South Florida, two activists left wingers came to our table and started screaming insults at us while I'm dining on a Sunday.
My middle daughter was skiing with her my ex-wife in Connecticut and a full grown man when they found who she was came over and yelled at a 10-year-old. I mean, they have no decency. Let's go to their phone call. Thank you, Matthew.
Let's go to who's up next year.
Oh, let me see.
The ones at the bottom about the.
Yeah, let's talk to Josh in South Carolina. Thanks for holding. Go ahead.
This is info warrior Josh reporting for duty rebel leader. Do you copy?
Over and out. Are you talking about David Knight here with the news boy hat?
I mean, sorry, Roger sound. Sorry.
What a fantastic birthday present. And it's no coincidence that after 15 years at a list as a listener, you and I are now standing shoulder to shoulder battling the empire that ever ended.
Considering we're separated at birth only by PKD exegesis, which ended 44 years ago today.
Sounds like something I'm buying into that.
Hey, you don't feel okay. You've been in a couple of movies.
So now I know who PKD is.
I know the secrets of PKD.
This is my first time aboard the mothership, although there was a recent Alex Jones special report based on a conversation I had with road warrior Owen and Mr. Stone himself.
And I'm not calling up to tell you all that I told yourself because the jury's still out on Tucker Carlson's feelings for you.
But no one can any can argue any longer.
Let me transmit back at you.
Be beat, beat, beat, beat, beat, beat, beat, beat.
I like the robot one of the transgender thing.
Sorry, go ahead. Go ahead, Roger.
I'd like to speak to this because Tucker and Alex and I had the honor of having dinner together through Republican National Convention in Cleveland.
Now, that doesn't mean Tucker agrees with Alex about everything, although he certainly agrees with him about many things.
But I think he has an affectionate respect for Alex Jones.
Oh, yeah. Now, Tucker has come here and hung out. We've got dinner before here in Austin.
This idea that he doesn't like you or that he's been trashing you, I can just find no evidence of that.
Well, I mean, like 10 years ago or something, he said I was freaking crazy or something because he didn't really know who I was and then a misrepresentation.
But now far more likely somebody upstairs at Fox called downstairs and ordered him to do that because the place had odd management.
And they always felt beleaguered by anybody who's growing.
Newsmax bothered them in force by them without need.
We're we're we're comrades.
We're soul brothers. The broader the message, the more people getting it out there.
Well, I mean, I'm not exactly.
I like I like Sean Hannity. I like Tucker Carlson.
I don't know what the caller's talking about. I don't think Tucker had to say anything negative to me.
No, I couldn't find it.
So perhaps it's a miscommunication by the caller, but he didn't call into the the war room.
Thanks, Josh. Yeah.
I went in, but I really did research it and I just can't find it.
I know Alex and Tucker are buds.
Well, we do exchange text messages, but it's not like some star thing. Like, oh, he talks to me. I talked to him. His dad was interesting. His dad ran Voice for America.
So we're just talking about Voice for America earlier. His dad used to run that.
That's why it's really funny when they have congressmen on that call him a Russian agent.
I mean, there's just no end to this.
What type of hat is that? Is that like an English hat?
This is another version of the Hamburg, a different shape of slightly different shape.
But if you had any idea how cold it was in here, I know I'd have to wear a hat.
So I figured I would wear many hats just to break up them.
It's very nice. We really like it.
Yeah.
You know, but I'm getting to the point where I'm going to need gloves here shortly.
All right, let's go ahead and talk to Chris in Virginia. Chris, thanks for holding.
No problem. My question was for Dr. Group.
I was wondering, looking at the big picture of things, how concerned are you with prosperity coming back to America and everything?
Confidence on the rise that the globalists would pull mass violence to warfare.
Well, they're already putting stuff in the flu shots.
And you're already seeing that they're starting to get their bug out places in order.
I think a lot of it has to do with making sure that they have a place to go, the ones that know about it, and that they have the proper antidote.
That's it. The fact that they're all going to their bunkers and really all starting to move out means the timetable is getting close.
Yes. And they're also testing a lot of things with the vaccinations.
It's not quite right that they have everybody's immune system.
I think this last test, when everybody in the world practically got the flu multiple times in the last six months,
they have three different types of flues that people got.
I think it's getting closer and closer, but the thing is, you do have the proper supplements.
The Caller, I'm glad. I apologize to Chris, and Mike, and Kevin, and Matt. Call back with us in front of the line.
Thank you, Roger Stone. Warms, come up. I want to show our hand, Roger Stone.
Dr. Group, thanks for doing four hours with us.
Thank you.
Dr. Group, Global Healing Center. Thank you all for your support.
We're in a fight of our lives, but we're in it together.
It's where I want to be. God bless you. I love you. All of you.
It's been sold out for months, and now it's back. It's MycoZX plus lower price, more ingredients,
because we scaled up, signed a year contract with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability, but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off,
because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX.
Now, it's the other side of the equation.
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment,
pesticides, herbicides, but more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls, and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there,
it causes all sorts of syrups. Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it
and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX plus now from the InfoWars store.
In the history of InfoWars life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2,
SuperMail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
