Waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones
Tuesday the 27th day of March 2018 I'm your host Alex Jones and it is so
incredible to actually follow the news to follow the globalist to follow their
policies to follow their agenda and then to watch them deny world government or
deny the attack on the family or deny the attack on Christianity or deny the
attack on Buddhists that's quite frankly is going on worldwide as well
anything that isn't bloodthirsty and hateful anything that's about
communities working together they're trying to get rid of they are by
definition evil people and now the Supreme Court justice comes out and
calls for the repeal of the Second Amendment on the heels of the New
York Times and the Washington Post and us today and CNBC and MSNBC and CNN
having their hosts say it's time to take the guns and then we've got all the
different gun grabbers at the different events
saying that oh give us an inch we'll take it a mile we're going to take it
all and we're going to kill gun owners that don't turn them in we'll take your
slogan from Charlton Heston from my cold dead hand and we will carry it out
against you and you know what we are gonna ban the words mother and father
Canada just said do not use the word mother in government documents
Purdue Harvard Yale first they ban Halloween parties because this costume
might be offensive think about that in America then they ban in the English
departments saying mankind I mean when you look at what a cult this is and how
they believe they've got the colleges and high schools fully under their
control it makes your head spin at least it makes mine remember all the crazy
headlines in fact media matters had a headline yesterday that I'm insane
because I think they want to overthrow the Second Amendment and overthrow the
Constitution so they're simultaneously going Jones is insane and says the March
for our lives run by the left that's probe pro-abortion total oxymoron Jones
says they want the guns no one wants your guns except 5,000 newspaper covers
today look at it in full wars dot com we got it linked up there now that's an
article from March 4th of the click news today you'll see the media matters
article from yesterday that says Jones claims the March for our lives is about
overthrowing the Bill of Rights and Constitution that's my quotes in there
why just repealing it doesn't do anything but overthrow it but Jones is a
conspiracy theorist he says that we want your guns which we do but you're still
insane if you say we do so former Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens
repeal the Second Amendment that's the Supreme Court saying repeal the Second
Amendment that's how they operate that's how stupid they think you are that's the
type of moron they think you are that they're coming for your guns they say
they want your guns it's the former Supreme Court justice saying they want
the guns for the nine have already voted to repeal the Second Amendment before
basically and now they're gonna try to have this new mind control game where
they try to ban them but then say you're insane they're not it's all coming up on
the other side of this quick break in full wars dot com news war dot com those
are the sites they're trying to shut down in full wars dot com and news wars
dot com that's why it's critical to get those articles out and override their AI
I'm so excited the new product at m4slife.com in a glass bottle two months
servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red pill this
is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly I just went
off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it
wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred two hundred
dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formula working with
scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America 120 capsules and
ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor
to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands it is amazing red pill now available at m4warstore.com and your
purchase fuzz the operation
ladies and gentlemen we are broadcasting worldwide thank you so much for
joining us wow we have got former Supreme Court justice coming out and
saying repeal the second amendment just outright that's coming up in the next
segment and we've got the youth marchers even those sociologists say that only
10% of those marching are actually youth they're mainly the Department of
Education marchers that's the women's march that's the anti-gun marches
mainly professors and then the high school and elementary school teachers a
part of the unions on record they're calling for the repeal of the second
amendment after denying it for so long so that's coming up but I want to air two
special reports back-to-back right now and that is Hollywood promotes gun
violence yet bans gun safety and then I've got another report that I want to
just get out of the way because they're so important why are the elites sneaking
into their bunkers why more and more are they evacuating to New Zealand than a
very powerful report by Paul Joseph Watson reacting to mean people because
now the left bans anybody online that they claim hurts their feelings or
disagrees with them but then they more and more are getting so incredibly in
your face and so incredibly hateful in fact let's air Paul Watson's report
first because it's it ties into all this bullying and Madonna saying she wants
to blow up the White House and the hashtag hunt Republicans and David
Hogg saying we're all shaking in our boots as he tries to take one of our
basic constitutional rights but remember they've been denying more and more that
they are coming for our guns and saying we're insane but paradoxically as they
intensify saying no one wants your guns they're saying we're going to ban your
guns completely just take all your guns so just amazing hissy fit being thrown
by the establishment as they attempt to disarm the people so we're gonna go to
Paul Joseph Watson's report right now I've seen a lot of humorous YouTube videos
in which celebrities and politicians read mean comments I'm alright with the
president wearing jeans I'm not alright with the president wearing those jeans
who are you anyway and by the way where do you buy the shoe polish you wear in
your hair so in the spirit of self-deprecating comedy I thought I'd
give you a sampling of the kind of funny put-downs and witty japes that I tend to
receive why you talk about Islam like that I will slow see your bloodline and
leave you alive to suffer for what you do you are bad men's and I will send you
to Allah so that he may punish you to hell fire for endurance I will kill you
I will cut head from your shoulders and make you me okay die pig oh you guys in
your pithy retorts wait a sec how am I gonna fuck you without a head I am going
to behead you in the name of his one mother your head will roll from your
lifeless body I will burn down your house and fucking your wife as a trophy
after you lose your head I don't have a wife I am going to kill you if you keep
talking Islam I'll kill you for your words no cops border authorities won't
be able to do because you know what I went across their ones and your stupid
cops did not stop me whatsoever when I went there for free why Jesus Christ I
bet UK border authorities are gonna be keen to follow up on this oh maybe
they're too busy it's time to hashtag kill pjw an
answer to the problem gang rape the wife of the man who insults Islam and
brings dishonest wall muslims hashtag kill pjw don't care virgin how dare you
say Islam is not religion of peace okay so I'm willing to hear you out how are
you going to prove to me Islam is a religion of peace I've hack you to
bits and little pieces okay so you're gonna prove Islam is a religion of peace
by hacking me to pieces it's a religion of peace there's a PC over there
there's a PC over there people ask me if I report any of this to the police do
you see any spicy memes in there no why would I waste the time when they
obviously have far more important things to deal with the only thing pjw is
qualified to give an opinion on is whether it's a good idea to have a
photoshopped to death profile picture in order to create an impression of being
a cool and edgy individual yeah you're lecturing me about the accuracy of my
profile pic when yours is literally a cartoon of a fictional child from a
video game blast houses and all that not surprised about him but surprised in
four was her staff thought it was Jones and pjw in his mum's basement got me there
got me there oh no I actually bought the house in which my parents live so
technically my mum lives in my basement you're a Nazi I'm coming to England to
kill you I already know where you like and I'm going to kill you live still
coming you'll kill you a little tip you if you're gonna send me death threats
probably not a great idea to leave your name place of work and address in the
message something to remember for next time you are to dick I'm going to make
it my purpose in life to hit you as often as I can as hard as I can well
given that it's now a year since you said this and you've done mm-hmm call looks
like that live purpose didn't quite pan out did it freedom of speech does not
mean you can make fun of someone's religion you idiot yes that's exactly
what it means hurt no it's not freedom of speech means that you had the right
to say that you don't like something or someone what you did is just being a
student who deserves to die with a bone stuck in your throat right so
criticizing a religion as part of freedom of speech that's a no-no but
wishing violent death upon someone that's just fine my favorite thing about
pjw is how he thinks standing in front of a map makes him look more authoritative
when brilliant makes him look like a geography teacher in the mid-11 mid-life
crisis my favorite thing about you is how you're such a pussy you then even
tagged me in the insult and then you hide behind a block also it's difficult to
tell whether your midlife crisis has happened yet because your face looks
like some kind of weird elderly teenager every time I see a pjw tweet I
read it out in my head in his stupid exaggerated voice well imagine my
shock another leftist has been triggered to the point about her let that sink in
my idea of hell is pjw saying soyboy in all manner of different voices for
eternity soy boys soy boys soy boys soy boys soy boys a
pjw has stolen many memes while the police doing something about it he's a
a monster. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm the Nasser of Memes. You might build
the rocket ship, but I send it into space. Stating point, that soyboy meme didn't explode
until I made a video about it. Here's a Google Trends graph to prove it. Once again, destroyed
by facts and logic. Lol, you guys remember when the leaders of the skeptic community
would have destroyed prison planet instead of becoming best buddies with them? It's
the friends police. I'm sorry, I wasn't aware that to meet someone once, get drunk and take
a selfie with them, you had to sign a contract beforehand confirming that you share every
single one of their political beliefs. Isn't PJW gay? Not as gay as your mom.
By the way, there's an article up on infowars.com right now where mainline journalists and mainline
Democrats are coming out and saying you can't tweet an image of Richard Pryor or a video
gift of Chris Rock or anything if you're white because that is digital blackface and
cultural appropriation and is racist. So folks have responded in kind with some pretty funny
stuff, but the left wants to regulate all speech, all thought. They are the ultimate
cult of moronic idiocy.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes
and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can
alert you that something is wrong. Here how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America. Order your two months supply today by calling
866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Hey, this is Ricky from Banion Hill. You like freedom? I do. You like money? I do too. If
you like freedom and money, then you're going to love freedom checks. You see, over the
next few months, an estimated $34.6 billion is up for grabs to anyone who stakes their
claim. Yet, you heard that right, $34.6 billion. To get all the details, just go to www.americanfreedomchecks.com.
Thousands of people are already lined up to cash in. Take Doug, for example. He's a 46-year-old
from Joplin, Missouri who's set to get a check for $24,075. If Doug can do this, I've got
a hunch that you can too. But here's the thing. If you want the chance to grab your
full fair share of this $34.6 billion payout, you must have your ducks in a row by May 1st.
So don't wait. Get over to www.americanfreedomchecks.com before May 1st. That's www.americanfreedomchecks.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have
now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com. This coffee gives
you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other
coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us
years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site
today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available
in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press
all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at InfowarsLife.com.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable
tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to InfowarsLife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot deny the symbolism, the iconography of the anti-gun march funded
by the Democratic Party in George Soros and controlled by the Women's March. It was very
fascist. It was women with shaved heads in paramilitary outfits. It was young men with
armbands raising their fists in the sky, saying the establishment fears us. And it was a basic
call to have one of the bedrock rights of this country repealed. And so I am very upset,
very angry, so angry I can hardly be on air today because we now know the true evil we're
facing and we see how it's organized and how it's a fraud. How dare another Democrat blue
spot cancer spot city and Coward County stand down for at least 10 minutes and let the shooting
take place and then let them turn around when the police department dozens of times and
the sheriff's department was supposed to arrest this guy. And when he was known to be mentally
ill and telling everybody I'm going to be a mass shooter, I'm going to kill you. And
then his mother dies and he's in foster care. And then he's allowed to kill. And then the
media turns it around and blames all gun owners and collectively tries to bully us into submission
to relinquish our rights like slaves have done in Chicago, New York, DC and other Democrat
controlled areas. And every time there's a mass shooting, it's one of their areas and
they stand down and they let the carnage happen and the media covers it up and give support
to the cowardly police that stand down. It's incredible. And then we collectively as gun
owners, as people that aren't domesticated, who are Americans with that most basic of
rights and self-defense, we sit here and we take a bunch of snot-nosed, wannabe actors
from the acting departments of schools across the country, organized by the Democratic Party
and by the National Department of Education and by their unions. That's who they are at
these marches to march out with their organized mass-produced signs and their talking points
to call for the repeal of the Second Amendment. It is incredible. So if you're a radio
listener and I'll break it down, but for TV listeners and TV viewers, you'll be able
to see it. One of our crew, Darren McBreen, put together a clip with the background of
Hitler speaking or screeching, ranting to the images of the March for Our Lives rally
this weekend in D.C. And if you look at the iconography, the symbols, the armbands, all
of it, it's completely clear that it's authoritarian. The left is now race-based, identity-based.
So are the Nazis. They had a major youth movement that helped take them to power, just as Mao
did with his youth brigades. I would say they're more akin to Mao's youth brigades than they
even are to Hitler. But it's definitely in that vein, and that's what it is. And now
we have John Paul Stevens saying repeal the Second Amendment. And it's all over the news,
and he's written an op-ed piece that has appeared in USA Today, The New York Times,
you name it, it's everywhere. And he says, for our children and for civic engagement,
it's time to get rid of the right to keep and bear arms. Period. Take them all. Mr.
and Mrs. America, turn them all in. Remember the decades they denied that was their goal.
But the same globalist from Australia to the U.K., from Mexico to Brazil, have done the
exact same thing. It always starts saying we don't want your guns, we don't want your
guns, just let us register them, just let us restrict semi-auto, just let us ban people
until 21 having them, and then they take it all. And every time there's another shooting,
because they'll always be killings, they'll always be stabbings, there's always gonna
be evil people, as long as there's free will, doesn't matter, mass crimes down 67% to 92%,
the facts don't matter, they will say never again. And then there's another killing, and
they go never again. How about never again the sheriff's department stand down, or the
school resource officer hide, or never again we don't allow select trained teachers to
be armed, so these wouldn't be the victim disarmament centers where psychos go to kill
because the media advertises, like the golden arches you come here to get a hamburger, well
public schools are big advertisements that you come here to kill a bunch of defenseless
people that are taught to stick their head between their knees, stick their heads between
their legs, like ostriches, while another prozac head crazy person squeezes bullets
into their damn heads. We are up against an exact formula, an exact program of control.
And they're not just going after the second, they're trying to ban everybody that's defending
the second on YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. They're calling for us to be banned, and saying
that grown adults cannot respond to other grown adults, high school seniors, up there
on the stage telling us it's our fault, and that old people are bad, and that guns are
bad, and that they're the future, and they're going to take all of our rights, and take
our children's rights, and then we can't even criticize these little PR stunt men and women.
So it's on folks, they're coming for all your rights globally, this is it, and people better
get aggressive, and they better get active, or you're going to lose it all, because Trump
getting elected just walked the globalist up to accelerate their plan, and their whole
timetable. So here's Jeremy brings peace with the truly frightening historical iconography
that you cannot deny in these parallels of this youth march. Authoritarianism is always
about youth marches. Here we go.
And we can also show the signs saying ban the guns, and I want to be clear, I'm not saying
David Hoggs and Nazi, I'm not saying any of them are. I'm saying the ideology that's
identity based is how the Nazis were based, and I'm saying their move to only allow select
groups to have weapons is a Nazi based system or an authoritarian based system, and big
youth marches and emotion and manipulating the youth was the staple of the communist,
the fascist, the Nazis, you name it, across the political spectrum, and that's where you
see these dangerous revolutions coming from, like the one we see that's brought Venezuela
and other areas to its collective needs is these exact same type of dangerous youth movements.
And if you study the college movements and high school movements today in the United States,
they're not Nazi based. They are mal youth brigade, red guard based. Look them up in
any town, any city that has a college or a large high school base, you will have the
chapters in your area. We know them as Antifa, but when they take the mask off, they're communist.
And that's who they are. And they're George Soros funded with full page ads in the New
York Times saying we're going to overthrow Trump, overthrow capitalism, overthrow America
and take the guns. That's their plan. We'll be back with critical intel. Please spread
the live links and tell folks about the local station or TV station you're watching or listening
to us on. It's critical.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified
water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com. We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
This is Dan Billard. You owe the IRS money you can't pay. Our tax debt's crippling you.
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX
or my website, DanPilla.com.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I cannot
say it any clearer. It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children
and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with
colloidal silver and iodine as well. Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139. Your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. That's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and
being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well. And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to
say thanks for the awesome Brainforce Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for
the Anthroplex too. Thank you.
I use the Biotruce Selenium, the super blue toothpaste. For you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans, the super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowarslife
products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for
doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowarslife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax
fiber. Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowarslife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of
the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to Infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Thank you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance. Rallying
Patriots worldwide, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Well, former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens has joined a chorus of other globalist
ruling for the repeal of the Second Amendment and nationwide gun confiscation. We've got
his editorial from the New York Times linked up on Infowars.com. And I knew a few months
ago when they started admitting they want to just outright ban guns. That was the new
talking point because before it was only in their internal documents, Handgun Control
Incorporated Violence Policy Center, the Brady Center, Bloomberg. Now it's out in the open
and many of the signs at the March to enslave America funded by George Soros said we're
going to confiscate your guns. And now we've got politicians saying we're going to take
your guns. That's because the left's always authoritarian worldwide. Now they are in a
position they believe to make their move. And you give them an inch, they take it a mile.
Here's Ms. Tarr.
There are so very many things, so many steps to take. Like right now, sign our petition.
It takes two seconds and it matters. We will take the big and we will take the small but
we will keep fighting. When they give us that inch, that bump stock ban, we will take a
mile. We are not here for breadcrumbs. We are here for real chain.
Well, let me call B.S. since you guys all have your little pins you wear that say that.
You don't speak for the majority of young people in this country. You don't speak for
the Constitution and Bill of Rights are veterans. You don't speak for me. And out of 3,000 students,
they ignored the libertarians, the conservatives, the victims. They wouldn't let them get on
the news. That's all come out.
And so you misrepresented us and you misrepresented the country. And now Hollywood and the big
media is up there force feeding you to create this form of guilt when it's the blue cities
and counties where you have the mass shootings, where you have the sheriff's department
standouts. And it's because it's their culture of cowardice. It's their culture of Chicago
and New York and D.C. where the police are more apt to be corrupt, where the system is
leftist, where they only care about themselves, where they know there's disarmed victims.
And you hate flyover country. You hate Christians. You hate not owners. You hate people that
can skin a buck and run a trot line because you're already the domesticated zombies.
And there's a sociologist report we're going to get to in a moment. It's up on info wars.com.
Even MSNBC admits only 10% of those marching were 18 or younger. But they always use children.
They said, oh, Obama's letting migrants in that are children turned out 17% were under
the age of 21. Just like every day I hear about a woman being knifed to death at the
Eiffel Tower, knifed to death in Berlin or knifed to death in Sweden. Women gang raped
and then murdered. And it always says a group of young teenagers, 13, 15 and 16, they're
always five, six years older than they say because they call 25 year old men coming in
children. And then they have children shows, reality shows where a 14 year old's dating
her boyfriend that's 18 who's Syrian and it turns out he's 25. And then they teach him
surreal law on German television. Sociologists less than 10% of March for lives participants
were children. But you criticize it. Oh, you're bullying victims. Well, what about people
being victims of gun control worldwide when only the state has the guns? We're at that
crossroads. It's here. Before I get the sociologist clip, NBC's Alexander urges MSNBC viewers to
sign promise to vote anti gun. Or again, the next time another Prozac had, who the police
were supposed to arrest more than 20 times, who was adjudicated and not able to own guns,
whose mother had just died, who was in all these different government custodies on multiple
government issued drugs, told everybody he was going to be a mass shooter. He shows up.
All this happens. And then CNN has videos removed. They get involved in my first amendment
and have videos removed of witnesses we had on and other videos on local news of people
saying there was a police stand down. But they didn't say, Oh, we took Alex Jones's videos
down and tried to ban his channel and froze his channel for a week because he showed people
saying there was a stand down. Because remember, that was the first week. You weren't supposed
to know that they were getting the narrative going. No, they misrepresented and said that
I said nobody died. Or that hog was a crisis actor and was 24 years old. I didn't say that.
I said he was in the art department. He was in the he was he was in the acting department.
And the four they chose were because they're anti gun PR thespians who can basically go
out with their talking points, which they admit they now put out private jets, the buses,
all of it from the day after the women's march took control of it. And the reason I'm penalized
and the reason they want to block us is because we're telling the truth and they want to organize
the youth and not have a talking point to counter this to tell adults go to your PTA, organize
your own right to self defense marches, your own marches to arm the teachers, have your
own narrative, but you've got to be the leader. We don't have private jets or hundreds of
millions for buses. We don't have that. We have you, but you're going to have to do it.
I was in the car this weekend with six girls, five of them, my oldest daughter's friends.
And we took them down to six flags and they were all as well spoken as I am. Their dads,
their moms are well spoken. They all talked about how they wanted to do a walk out, how
they wanted to stand up, how they get bullied by the teachers and people saying you've got
to be anti gun going to a major high school here in Austin, Texas. And I said, you need
to have your own walk out. You need to organize it. Two of the girls are the leaders. Even
though they're only freshmen, they're already the most popular girls in the school. I mean,
you think these kids are well spoken. You think they, oh, you ought to see these two
young ladies 14 and 13 and their parents are super smart. They look like super models.
They would destroy them right there in my car was dynamite to the globalist, but conservatives
and Christians don't do that. I think I'm going to talk to their parents because we've
got to, I've got to do it by example. I'd say I'd do it with my older daughter. She'd
like to do it, but that did crosswise my ex-wife, but when you've got two parents that are together
and their child wants to go public, they deserve to. And those girls, I wasn't prompting them.
I was sitting there listening to my own music and stuff while they were, but I started listening
to them and they were hungry to tell the truth. They were hungry to take action. They were
hungry and they had all the answers and they were incredibly well spoken and well dressed
and good looking and smart. And they weren't scripted. They weren't funded by George Soros.
They were red-blooded Texans. So let's go ahead and play a clip of NBC trying to organize.
Here it is.
There was hard not to be moved by their stories by those moments this weekend. Nearly 5,000
people registered to vote Saturday. That's according to headcounts a nonpartisan group
at the marches.
Oh, nonpartisan.
There's also a push called...
It paused right there. Oh, oh, oh MSNBC is nonpartisan. And this is a nonpartisan group
at an anti-gun rally funded by Soros. Oh, it's nonpartisan, by the way, when they're organizing
to take our guns. Here it is.
It's a promise to kids that encourages voters to sign a contract vowing to vote for candidates
who, as they describe it, put child safety ahead of guns. I'm joined now by two of the
students who started parents' promise to kids, Adam Buckwald and Zach Hitchman. They are
both juniors at Stoneman Douglas. I'm also joined by English and journalism teachers
at Stoneman Douglas.
We're all the young people that are anti-victim disarmament. We're all them. Oh, they don't
get to get on the 80s channels. They just show you one thing. A bunch of bandwagon folks,
like people that run the Lance Armstrong bandwagon. At least that was for sports. This is just
a synthetic. Let's continue.
Turner, she was in D.C. this weekend for the march.
We just introduced this wonderful movement called Parents' Promise to Kids. This is
a contract that we're asking every parent and grandparent in the nation to promise their
children that they will vote for ethical legislators.
Pause again.
Let us bully our parents and grandparents in designing this and signing away our future
and our rights because George Soros and the media use us as kept slaves in these schools
and brainwash us and are now deploying us as an information warfare weapon against the
Second Amendment to repeal it.
Full War's Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best
source prebiotic fiber. And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and
for regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture,
floral life, as well as Myco-ZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the
gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce these
products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's
sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out. And
I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
In FullWarsLife and in FullWarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winner's Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winner's Sun is a premium quality vitamin
D3 nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense
plants known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely
free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price,
this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research
and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Sun vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin
D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting. Visit
infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense
Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war. It is a classical
360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we
believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of
this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as
you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and
your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies
with Z-Shield and infowarslife.com.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that
their president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows
and awards shows to repeat their narrative over and over again. And then they use their
ex-president to endorse the resistance. All to make them march, make them protest, make
them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia, to smash windows, burn cars,
shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding. Until the only
option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness. And when that happens,
they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this, the only way we
save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist
of truth. I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Ladies and gentlemen, I was just watching during the break Fox News and former Governor
Bill Richardson was on there and they had on screen the caption. We're trying to back
it up and find it so I can show TV viewers and radio listeners right now. And it said,
Facebook is not a social media network, it is a data mining operation. Well, that's what
I've been saying for 10 years since it started. That's what it is. And it sells data to thousands
and thousands and thousands and thousands of companies. So it's just incredible that
we've gotten to this point. And now it's coming out. Yeah, there it is on screen. Largest
data mining operation in existence. And the fact that they went after Cambridge Analytica,
which is a big player, but tiny compared to the aggregate was opening Pandora's Box or
I use the analogy a week and a half ago of the Christmas sweater where you grab the one
string and it makes the whole thing come undone. We've all like when we're a kid had
a sweater before we need to, you know, snip it off with scissors and we would start pulling
on the string and pretty soon there'd be a huge hole and mom would have to patch it.
I remember back in the old days, my mom still sewed and kids would make fun of me sometimes
with a sweater that had like a patch in it, but I thought that was cool. Of course, nowadays
that's trendy, but I'm digressing, ladies and gentlemen, and they're finding out that
the company worked for hundreds of governments just like I said, and that most of it was
anti-Russian or anti-conservative because the globalist have the money and they're
fighting nationalist and populist. So that's coming up in the next hour as well. Jack
Pasobix going to be joining us. There's so much to get into, but Facebook is now in
trouble for favoring the Obama and the Hillary campaign. And they're saying it's pretty much
a clear violation of federal law and the Federal Elections Commission. Fox News is reporting.
So see what they did. See what they did. It's amazing. And of course, it turns out that
most of what Cambridge Analytica did was anti-Trump because they would take money from anybody.
They were taking money for Trump. They were taking money against Trump. There's a good
comic cartoon on infowars.com that shows the media pointing at Obama and his data mining
and saying, genius, look how smart he is. But then Trump does it. Oh my God, he's criminal.
He's evil. Well, the truth is what Trump did was not illegal. It was public data mining
to reach out to constituents and figure out who they were and mobilize them. What Obama
did was full control of Facebook, Twitter and Google to go into your droid phones to
get your databases to fix polls, to give the questions to CNN beforehand. I mean, it's
incredible. And see, that's how they could do fake online polls too, is they could target
demographics or target websites where they knew they'd get a certain response, have the
online polls pop up, knowing the demographic that's on there even live time. There's what
you can see on Google, a restaurant, when it's peak time is, how many people are there
right now? How does it know that? Because the phones are tracking people live time inside
the restaurant. Well, it's way more sophisticated than that. So I told you the left was insane
going after trying to discipline Facebook to not let conservatives have access to data
mining when all they did was expose the entire golden goose. Now, I want to get to what I
was mentioning earlier, even MSNBC admitting that with their demographer, with their sociologist
on there, that less than 10% of the people there were children at the march to enslave
the American people rally brought to you by George Soros and the globalist. I mean, that's
who publicly funded it. Just a month ago, I'd say that I'd be banned online because
they were getting it organized then and didn't want you to know it was synthetic private
jets, private buses, scripting everything from day two. BuzzFeed later wrote the definitive
article. They're not they normally live. They wrote a big article bragging about how the
Democrats took it over day two, the March for Women, which is wholly owned by Soros.
It's the same women and same Hollywood stars behind the young adults like Hogg and the
other three of the four horsemen. Now, let me stop right there. We need to fund this
operation, ladies and gentlemen, before I get to that clip. And I make it really easy.
We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy
for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it. And we created a stronger formula than
some of the best selling formulas out there. It's very simple. We went out and like, look,
what is the top? What is the best? We'll just put even more product in. We'll make it better.
Leading competitors put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60. We put 10 products, $10 in
it and sell it for $30, $40, depending on what the price is at the time. It's $19.95
right now. And you add our advertising, our expenses, you name it. We're making like $5
on this. Nobody brings you a premium supplement with 25% profit in it. Nobody. The average
competitor has seven times markup. So you get an incredible top of the line new tropic
for $19.95. Believe me, we're selling it for $35 on average. We need that $15, $20 we make
to fund this operation in the face of the global for the rest of it. But I'm doing this
because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks. I want to sell it all out before the
big supply comes in. And I want people that haven't tried BrainForce to try it and find
out why it's got 6,000 plus five star reviews. A 92% review rate or average is 98. But the
globalists go in their menus and try to vote us down on power reviews and stuff. But the
point is, is that nobody's got to do tropic at 92%. It's amazing infowarstore.com, enforcelife.com.
And there is a challenge I'm running. The real red pill sold out the first month. We
got it. We got another big shipment in, but people say, yeah, I take it and don't feel
it for four or five days. Exactly. It doesn't have classic stimulants in it. It's got preglonone
that is the base precursor hormone, totally legal, seen as safe. But they were giving
people in the 20s for arthritis. By the time you get 20, 30 years old, the level of preglonone
in your body naturally goes way down without it. Your body can't make all of the other
key hormones and the stuff from the endocrine system. That's what it does. So preglonone
as a base, then key minerals, key amino acids and key vitamins that are used in the upload
of preglonone and the production of hormones in the body. So this isn't going out and taking
hormone mimicers. That can cause some issues. Obviously, consult your physician to your
own research. This is preglonone with everything it needs to be uploaded and used and metabolized
by the body. It's the real red pill and people are going crazy on it. I mean, it is amazing.
So preglonone and the rest of it is for the brain and the body. And so that is the fusion
pack. Ladies and gentlemen, and we've got a challenge going brain force plus and real
red pill mind and body challenge pack 50% off when you get them together and free shipping.
This is a new offer this morning. Brain force plus and real red pill mind and body challenge
pack 50% off in store for a limited time. These two go together like a horse and carriage.
It takes five to seven days on average from my experience of people's experience to see
what the real red pill does. Brain force hits you in 30 minutes. But they go together.
We're giving you the powerful combo pack to help you boost your mind and body to their
limits healthily with the brain force plus and real red pill mind and body pack challenge.
The combo pack features brain force plus and the real red pill together for an unprecedented
50% off in savings with brain force plus supporting supercharging your state of mind and real
red pill supporting healthy aging and cognitive function. These formulas together can help
you push your mind and body to their limits. Together, these products have an average 4.7
stars out of five rating. These powerful products are some of the most advanced formulas yet
to help you change your mind and your body in the better. Get the brain force plus because
now there's more in each bottle plus the real red pill mind and body challenge pack today
and then for store.com or 50% off and free shipping and you know, it may sell out by
Monday or Tuesday because brain force at 50% off just evaporates off the shelves for a
good reason because there are leading brands that are very similar but ours is about 30%
stronger that are retailed $80. They sell for 60 all day long at stores and online and
Bezos sells a formula very similar at Whole Foods and online discounted for $49. Ours is
30% stronger. It's organic. It's concentrated and it funds the info or win, win, win, win,
win, a 360 win, a non zero show game and you get it with the real red pill takes a week
to kick in just like X2 takes about 15 days and life changing energy, stamina, focus.
I'll be honest with you though. I went back on red pill because it's been sold out for
a few months and I've been back on it for two weeks and it makes me aggressive as hell.
So because it boosts my normal hormones. I mean, it's true libido. Oh my gosh. It's the
missing link for so many people. The real red pill with brain force info wars live.com
or triple a two five three three one three nine. Please support our local affiliates.
That's critical as well. Second hour straight ahead with Jack the subject and I'll play
that clip when we come back of the March basically being a giant fake fiasco. Stay with us. Choose
to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium. This powerful
combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far
from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high
quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine
crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may
experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival shield
X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control
of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival shield X2 and
bio true selenium at info wars life.com. Hey, brother, this recently start using your
products. Everything you said about them is correct. Me and my wife both use a lot of
them and it's made a lot of changes in our lives here. Well, thank you brother. It's
because it also funds our operation but doing that I know I've got to have the highest quality.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes instead
of using synthetic chemicals. We do the super male and the super female vitality big changes
a lot of energy. We've gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, they've
got a ton of money there. Sourced from powerful organic herbs, harvested around the planet
and then concentrated or maximum potency. They want to stun and dumb down and energy
drinks and stuff just cover that up for a while but then burn you out in my experience
whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source. So it's pretty
exciting and I love it. Visit info wars life.com today to secure your super male vitality and
other powerful products from info wars life. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the info wars.com studios it's Alex Jones. Well, we knew it. Going back a month
ago we knew the Democrats were organizing select young people to go out and be anti
gun spokesperson to launch a nationwide youth movement against guns. We played clips earlier
of movements being launched on MSNBC to have young people bully their parents into signing
pledges that they will, here it is right here, promise to kids contract that we will vote
for legislative leaders who support our children's safety over guns. But I thought it's guns
protecting our children. I thought it was Broward County, Coward County standing down.
Why are you blaming gun owners? Mass shootings only kill 40 something people a year. It's
still too many. But why are you hyping all this and then saying I as a father that protect
my children with firearms or that police officers that protect people that somehow we're collectively
to blame when a jihadi runs over somebody. They don't say the trucks to blame. So now
we have definitive proof that this is Astro turf. Now we have definitive proof funded
by Soros, the women's marks, the Democratic Party that less than 10% even MSNBC admits
we're about to play the clip of the people at those events. At these anti gun events
were actually even young people. It was mainly the Department of Education and government
workers and Democrats, the exact same speakers, the same crowds we saw with Linda Sorcerer
and the women's marks that Soros spent 287 million on the day after Trump's inauguration.
I was there. I saw hundreds of buses just on the streets. I was and we didn't block
them from marching to the mall. The day before they beat us up. They attacked women and children.
They wouldn't let people into the Trump event and CNN showed the rally before the gates
even opened and said no one was there to hear Trump. That's the weaponized evil. That's
the globalist and CNN and MSNBC. So let's go to MSNBC admitting one more piece of evidence
that this was totally synthetic astroturf. And when I pointed that out a month ago,
they made a good run at banning me off YouTube and still thousands of other channels like
the health ranger and others are still banned and thousands of gun channels are being banned.
This is the assault. Let's go to that clip.
Talk about the makeup of this crowd in the protests this weekend. Who was there? How
many first timers and what impact do you think it's going to have in the long run in American
politics?
Well, these are great questions show. I mean, first and foremost, I think it's important
to note here that while young people mobilize people to participate, what's really interesting
is that less than 10% of the people in the crowd were actually under the age of 18. So
that's 90% of the people there who actually can vote today. Most, you know, in addition
to that, I think what's really important is that it turned out over a quarter of the
people who had never participated in a protest before. So these are people who are mobilizing
around the issue potentially. And finally, I think what's really interesting is that
16% of them were politically moderate. And that's the highest percentage of moderates
that I've seen at any of these protest events since the inauguration.
All right, so let's stop right there. Yeah, they call themselves moderate because they're
told, you're moderate, you're not anti-gun and the schools organize them and they say
I'm going to give you all your credit for the year. Hog brags that he's getting all
his credits by not going to school and doing this. So they basically get given their diplomas
if they go out, they get given their grades if they do this.
But hiding in plain view, there is the facts. Jack Pasobit was there. He shot the video
of just one road. Looks like a hundred buses. But I was in DC. I left that Saturday after
the inauguration on Friday. And it took us two hours to get to the airport because there
were so many buses going out of town. And they were just, I mean, I saw hundreds of buses
just on the routes where I was getting out. And it was a million, million and a half women.
And they were Department of Education. They were wearing the stupid pink hats. They were
there. And this is who they are. This is the government. This is the bureaucrats. These
are the people that want to run this country. They want flowered and pebbin. We'll talk
with Jack Pasobit how we counter it. Is Trump starting to go sideways on us? The big news
on China and their warships threatening blood and war. I forgot that part. Bloody battle.
The Chinese dictator, Xi Jinping, it's all coming up. Stay with us.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood
clots and heart attacks. That's why the Last Surgeon General's report on oral health
warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body. Super blue fluoride
free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula. It's loaded with good halogen iodide, some
of the bad halogen fluoride. Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical
times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath. Just some of the ingredients in
super blue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver
and more. Learn more about info wars life super blue toothpaste at infowarslife.com
and support the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth.
Big brother, mainstream media, government coverups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the info wars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, Jack Pasobic joins us for the hour. I intend to open the phones
up coming up at the bottom of the hour. I'm Alex Jones, your host. Jack Pasobic, of course,
is lead citizen for Trump.com, one of the top three biggest citizen Trump organizations.
He also got outed as being a naval intelligence. Not that that was a bad thing last year. They
said the president tweets him, but he's really a naval intelligence. He should be kicked out
of the Navy because the president likes him. That's how whacked out the globalist star.
He's on Twitter at Jack Pasobic. He's a great investigative journalist. He shot video of
hundreds, it's like an hour long video of him walking down the road, hundreds of these
buses. I mean, just every major road is just filled with them. Buzzfeed and others admit
Soros is funding it. The million mom, March, all of it is funding it. So I want to get
his take on the Supreme Court justice coming out. John Paul Stevens, former justice saying
it time to repeal the Second Amendment have nationwide gun confiscation. You can read
it in his editorial article in the New York Times. We've also got Washington Schultz
wants background checks for ammunition buyers. It just goes on and on. That's up on info wars.com.
Sociologists less than 10% of the marchers for lives. Participants were children. Trump
set sites to extra judicially banned bump stocks. He is really appeasing them. That is
a huge mistake. So we've got all those reports on what's happening on that front. This is
quite a time to be alive. And also if you just joined us, I should have led the broadcast
with this, but the open calls to repeal the Second Amendment all over CNBC, MSNBC, CNN,
and everywhere. China sends massive Navy for South China Sea War games after President
Xi Jinping vows to wage bloody battle for world domination. So Psobic can specifically speak
to this as he's lived in China. He's been in the Navy. He's been stationed over there.
He's been in naval intelligence. Russia, China Eclipse US in hypersonic missiles promoting
fears the hill. FCC wants Chinese tech out of US phones and routers. I told you about
that 15 years ago. So you get next year's news today. Now it's mainstream news from
the FCC. Yeah, folks, Russia is not the issue other than their hypersonic Satan missile.
That's what we call it. The rest of it. By the way, if you think they really got stuff
faster, the stuff you see is the US 1980s technology, but doesn't matter. We can all
still kill each other. It's stupid. Six countries are planning state boycotts of the 2018 World
Cup. Child gangs fight for garbage on Venezuela streets. More video of that. You know, the
heaven of socialism that Bernie Sanders wants to give us. That is just some of what we've
got. And Obama and Hillary violated federal laws coming out in the news with Facebook fully
behind them in both campaigns. That's right. So this Cambridge Analytica thing. They work
for everybody, but by the media going after this and telling the big secret that Facebook's
a giant data mining, the Democrats are blowing up their own ship. Uh, Jack, there's a lot
to cover. Congratulations on getting married and all the great stuff you're doing and still
doing the great work. I see it's so prolific as you reach millions a day. I know you got
a lot of exciting stuff to be announcing soon. We can't get into an air, but congratulations
on all your great work. Uh, what do you want to tackle first of that palette of information
I just laid out? Thanks, Alex. I appreciate, uh, appreciate your kind words there. And
my wife appreciates it as well. Yeah. So we're, we just had the March for our lives
here in Washington, DC, that video I shot on Saturday. Of course, the March for our
lives got huge coverage in the mainstream media, the press, but the March for life,
the pro life marks that was just held last month in DC that I also attended was not covered
in the mainstream media. It was covered. If they did, they gave a thimble of a worth
of coverage to it and they covered a little bit of president Trump's remarks. President
Trump has been called the greatest pro life president we've ever had. Uh, but the media
didn't cover that instead. They covered this thing. And so we were told, you know, we were
told that this was spontaneous, that it was an organic outflowing of, uh, of passion
and emotion. And that was a lie. That was a lie. That is a lie. Yeah. As I went there,
I mean, you could see the level of organization and Alex, to be quite honest, I've never seen
so much organization for a private event and I've never seen so much security as they had.
This was presidential level security they had there from private security services,
from DC police and from National Guard military vehicles that were brought out onto the streets
of DC. This was something that DC hasn't seen this level of security since, uh, since president
Trump's inauguration. I know you saw that. And by the way, you were there. I was there.
They ordered the Capitol police, uh, the DC police to stand down at most of the entrances
and not let people in. That came out on the news. The police said that. So Trump is classy.
He gave massive protection, uh, to this Soros March when that, when the Democrats wouldn't
give us protection. That's exactly right. And of course there were no, uh, issues with
this March whatsoever. Now, one interesting thing that was going on as well is that these,
this game, they're playing with the numbers. They're trying to say that this was bigger,
but actually, uh, the women's March was much bigger as event. This only had about 200,000.
The way they did it was they crammed everyone onto Pennsylvania Avenue and sort of instead
of the big, wide Washington mall, the national mall that's right there. So you can still
get that background shot of Capitol Hill, but the street itself, it's a DC street. It's
much more narrow. So it seems like it's a lot of people. It was actually almost half
the size of the women's March.
And by the way, this is something I noticed with mainstream media. They've only got, you
know, 10 anti gunners out. They get them all together and then shoot up towards the Capitol
here in Austin. It's the same trick. You could tell those over the headshots were in streets,
all crammed in at the stage like it was a rock concert. Uh, and again, the Capitol police
estimated 300 to 400,000. As you said, CNN and others claimed a million. You were there.
You're estimating 200,000.
I'd say 200, 250 tops. I mean, even that street itself, you can see that some of the lanes
are blocked off from security cordons. Of course they built major barricades around
this whole thing. They built a wall as a matter of fact, and you couldn't get anywhere near
the stage. They have because of the way it was all crammed in. So they had TVs all over
the place. Uh, I kind of ducked out after, after a little while, because it was clear
that they weren't even allowing people to get up to the front. They just wanted their
TV shots.
You were there. I was watching on C-Span as they rolled loops of Ted Nugent, myself,
Dana Loesch, and the crowd would chat.
I saw that. Yes.
Uh, how bizarre was it actually be there?
You know, it was really weird because, uh, when they showed Dana Lash and yourself and
Ted Nugent, everybody else, you know, I saw that and I said, yeah, I don't really have
a problem with anything. Anyone, anyone of these people are saying, but then I realized
that you could hear the crowd. They were being urged to boo. They were being urged to sort
of, uh, see, see everyone who was pro-gun as an enemy. Everyone who talks about this
as an enemy. So they were urging people to boo these videos. They were urging people
to see, uh, see anyone as pro-second amendment as an enemy. And that's, that's essentially
what was trying to come up.
Oh, that's another thing. Can we queue up the sheriff? Uh, I went and looked at Paul Watson's
article on info wars. I went and looked at Stephen Crowder's articles. I looked at stuff
you tweeted that night and it looked like about a third of the signs said, we're going
to ban all the guns. Uh, we're going to kill you if you don't turn your guns in. And then
I heard talk like that from the speakers. I saw other people. So this is a new theme
where they're not denying they want to ban the second amendment. Uh, what do you make
of this calls to ban it and calls for violence?
Well, you know, what's interesting is that, you know, I've talked to so many people on
law enforcement and the military about this. And, uh, I'd say a good sizable amount of
them are saying that they would not follow that order. If that was, if that was ever
given in our country, that people need to understand there are so many police officers,
so many, uh, American military members that know that they swore notes at the constitution
and that includes the second amendment. And if that was ever given, you'd see a lot of
badges, uh, in, in just bins and trash bins. If that actually happened, they were trying
to confiscate guns because they're not, they're just not going to do it. That being said,
there may be troops, there may be police that would of course, uh, continue with that,
with that order would comply with that order. So you'd get this huge split kind of situation.
Just like happened in Russia in 1917. I was just going to say that. Yeah, exactly like
Russia. They get the central government and they kind of cut off the food and over a couple
of years make us all turn everything in. That is a real scenario. They're talking about
a civil war. We're not the ones pushing this. Why do you think they're suddenly going from
denying they want the guns to officially saying in the New York times, everywhere we want
to completely ban them and confiscate them? Uh, they're overreaching as the left always
does. They're overreaching and telling you for once what they truly believe. Usually
they're, you know, Obama was smart enough to say that, Oh, we just want regulations.
Then you actually saw the regulations and realized how bad it was. Now they're coming
out and specifically just, just saying what it is. They want to ban guns and would ban
our 15s. They want to ban what they call assault weapons. Well, well, yeah, I mean, now they
want to ban all the semi autos, but now they just say ban them all. Uh, in fact, that's
what he argues. John Paul Stevenson's go back to only black powder. That's all citizens
can have. I mean, talk about a recipe for crime and enslavement. We'll be back with
Jack Passo, but stay with us.
Face it. Today's electric power grid is more vulnerable than ever from natural disasters
to EMP attacks and hacking. The grid could be crippled for days or even decades in the
most dire scenarios. Visit quantum harvest.net to see our built to last EMP protected solar
power systems. While millions suffer, you'll have vital power for water pumps, refrigeration
and sanitation. Now that's peace of mind. EMP protected solar power systems for every
need and budget. See our full range at quantum harvest.net.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families. Choose
from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See
guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99 BERKEY. Hear that? That's the sound of a
house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't
steal will be destroyed. This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go
to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV,
even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your
security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful. FakeTV.com.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back. It's MycoZX plus lower price, more ingredients
because we scaled up, signed a year contract with an even bigger organic manufacturer and
producer. Scalability. But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50%
off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX. Now it's the
other side of the equation. Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for
your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides. But more importantly
than bad bacteria, the probiotics help this place. Yeast mold creates slime walls. And
once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts
of syrups. This has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy
that slime wall. Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late. Pick up a bottle
of the new and improved MycoZX plus now from the InfoWars store.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again. You
can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWars
Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Jack Possobit, prolific writer, researcher, investigative journalist. Very soon he'll
be announcing a big national gig that he's going to be doing. I'm going to leave it
at that. But tomorrow's news or next month's news today is our specialty. And we're just
really excited to see the things that are happening in the media in libertarian, nationalistic,
conservative media. Now I want to shift gears into an area where you've got expertise living
in China, being in the Navy, in the South China Sea, doing clandestine things that you
obviously can't get into, Jack, with your great career in the Navy and now fighting
for the Republic right here in America. What do you make of this headline? China sends
massive Navy for South China Sea war games with the President, Xi Jinping vows to wage
bloody battle for world domination. Again, that ties into FCC wants Chinese tech out
of US phones routers. They're able to kill our entire phone grid because they control
the database, ladies and gentlemen, through this Swiss and Dutch companies that the Chinese
own and control. Apple is now merging with communist China officially, giving them the
keys to the kingdom. That's mainstream news. Talk about a national security threat. Look,
I'm not a Russophile. I've never been to Russia. I intend to go over there sometime and meet
my bosses, supposedly, but they're becoming Christian. They're becoming nationalist. Hollywood
hates them because they're Christian. And I see all the things the president's doing
with no proof of this nerve gassing. We don't even they don't even say if this Russian and
his daughter are alive or dead. They won't give us any info. This former GRU Colonel.
We're just told all these new sanctions, 14 countries banned playing soccer in Russia.
Putin's the enemy. Meanwhile, from my research and just what's open source, China has a footprint
thousands of times more intense in the US. They're taking over rare earth minerals. They've
got the huge Navy. They've got submarines. They're their actual ground forces dwarf the
Russians. They're in our business. They're buying up Hollywood. I mean, it is just incredible.
All I'm saying is I'm all about dealing with foreign enemies. I'm all about US dominance.
We're projecting the American way of life. But I see Russia lined up more and more with
us. And with the Trump nationalist agenda show, what is Trump doing? Virtue signaling
to the left virtue signaling to neutralize Mueller and his fake investigation. I mean,
I see this as a serious problem. So a, what do you make a Trump on this front? I'm not
mad at him. I trust him. He's doing a great job. Light years better than Hillary. Thank
God. The global is dating. But still, what is going on here? It isn't very Trumpy and
to give into his critics and then and then and then destroyed a taunt with Russia. And
then what's the big enchilada with China? Jack Pesovic?
Well, Alex, the president is trying to walk a fine line when it comes to Russia. He's
trying to essentially, as you said, appease some of these critics of Russia appease some
of the what's going out in terms of this screed pile situation, whether or not screed pile
and his daughter are dead or not. We don't even know he's trying. They're trying to appease
critics. They're trying to push back on the Russia collusion narrative by being a little
bit more heavy handed when it comes to Russia on the diplomatic front. That being said,
the US and Russia are also both involved in military operations in Syria, where they've
got to fly a lot of deconfliction. They've got to make sure there are situations where
we're not killing Russian soldiers. And obviously we don't want Russia, you know, attacking
any of our troops that are on the ground there. We do have troops on the ground in Syria,
even though it's not talked about a lot. So we have to be very vigilant of that. And there
is a lot of information and operation sharing that goes on just for that deconfliction.
Now, at the same time, what China is doing and turning around is while all of this is
happening, Trump is trying to use China as leverage on North Korea right now. They know
that he needs their leverage. That's why Kim Jong-un is in Beijing right now. Took the
armored train up there at the same one his dad used to ride. And they're using all of
this to go and lay claim, really solidify their claim to the South China Sea. They see
it as the Chinese Lake. And they've drawn lines saying essentially that all of the Pacific
should be part of China, should be China's sphere of influence. And they're really laying
down their markers hard on the South China Sea. They were building islands, building
bases there, armed bases there during the last bit of the Obama administration. The Obama
administration was very weak towards them. They didn't really do too much with it. So
now they're waiting. And while Trump is distracted on Russia and North Korea issues, they're
using it to make their final push to grab the South China Sea and solidify it with a
huge show force they're doing right now at this exercise. Unprecedented for China, by
the way, to do this kind of exercise so far off of the Chinese coast. And normally, you
know, we used to joke that the Chinese Navy was a brown water Navy because they stayed
so close to the coast. Well, this is the first time that China is getting into the blue water
in such a major show force like this. You could almost compare this in some ways. It's
not quite as big yet. But if you remember, back to our history, the great white fleet
of Teddy Roosevelt in the early part of the 19th century, just about, or excuse me, 20th
century, just about 100 years ago, that was really showing the US's dominance around the
world. Now China.
Sure, it's just like with the singing of the main and President McKinley and then the launch
of the US Remain nation into a global empire, taking over the former Spanish and Portuguese
Culling stations throughout the Pacific and even the Southern Atlantic and Central Atlantic
are absolutely right. And China now sees itself modeling that in a major breakout into the
world. But unlike the US, we just declared we had navigation rights. They are declaring
they control not just the South China Sea, but all the way down into the Philippines.
We haven't seen this since the Japanese did this in World War Two.
That's exactly right. In fact, a lot of this territory is the same territory where World
War Two was fought all the way from Iwo Jima, from Okinawa, which is very close to this
area, to Taiwan, which of course is still under a major part of conflict between the
two countries and all the way down to the Philippines, which the US took in the Spanish-American
War, 1898. Now it's coming back to that's exactly right next to where the Philippines
had had their territorial claims.
That's right. And the Chinese are studying that and their war planners are admitting
they're preparing for war. Here's the quote by Xi Jinping, the dictator. He's ready for
bloody to wage bloody battle for world domination. I mean, talk about incredible rhetoric. What
is going on there?
At the last time that China got involved in this area, they had a skirmish with the Vietnamese
in the 1970s over over some of these islands. And they won, but they had a very bloody time
of it because they had trouble getting their supplies down to out to sea there for these
these island battles. So what they're using now with these islands that they've created,
these artificial islands are going to be outposts, coaling stations, supply stations, and possibly
armed stations.
They could also put what they're trying to do is with their aircraft carrier, they're
going to basically station an air wing down in the South China Sea and then use that for
operations on and off that aircraft carrier and really project their air, imagine how
much distance you get out of that.
And let's be clear, our Navy's bragged that they only had a brownwater Navy. Now they
only had a blue water Navy. They've got a blue water Navy in their merchant fleet, which
is Chinese intelligence, as you know, and they're more projected than we are globally
into every sector of the planet.
Go ahead.
That's absolutely correct. And this is something that we see with North Korea as well, that
these civilian ships will be used for intelligence collection. And occasionally with with special
forces, they were in China, they referred to sort of as the little green men, basically
irregulars or ununiform members of the Chinese Communist Party or militia. You'll see sometimes
see the referred to in Chinese writing in their newspapers and their academic journals.
And this, they're outwardly saying this, this isn't classified information. You can go and
read any Chinese naval journal and they're telling you this is exactly what they're doing.
Exactly. They said, first we took over 98% of the rare earth minerals. Now they're going
in and buying all the local governments in Africa, Latin America, Asia, and now they're
building artificial islands. Now they're preparing all sorts of low cost attack grounds to take
on our larger ships. I mean, China is in a stand up military mode. And thank God Trump
standing against them because previously Hillary was on their payroll. Stay with us. We'll
be back.
ID stronghold wallets are different. They may look the same on the outside. They're stylish.
They'll hold your cards and cash, but they're hiding something great on the inside. No,
there are no pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open it. But it does have magical
powers. ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves
standing right next to you. Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your
information just by walking past you. Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work
ID badge. ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago.
ID strongholds, wallets, sleeves and badge holders are trusted by the US military and
the executive office of the president, something the competitors can't say. Secure your identity
and save 10% by using coupon code magic at checkout for a limited time at ID stronghold.com.
ID stronghold.com. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our
organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to
keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Info wars
life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head
on over to info wars life.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's info wars life.com.
In the history of info wars life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x to super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the
platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure and rest secured. You're
finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's info wars life.com and vitamin mineral
fusion. Take action now before we sell out. Let's go to debit in Florida debit in Florida
here on the air. Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product and I got
to say they're amazing. It was on the fence by it because I've got caveman, superman vitality,
secret swell, vitamin mineral fusion. I've got the body armor. Wow. Thank you. You're
the type of lesser that makes it all possible. Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest. That's amazing. I drank it in
the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible. I haven't felt sweet. My morning was fantastic
and I love you guys. I love the info wars through and I just want to, yeah, I want to,
I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
We'll love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product. What you find in our
news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win win infowarslife.com.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side. You're listening
to Alex Jones. Alright folks, I want to open the phones up specifically for Jack Pesovic
on the second amendment attack on the army spending bill on the communist Chinese. But
if you want to get hysterical, if you want to get upset, if you've studied history like
I have, it's addicted. The communist Chinese funded by Goldman Sachs and the big banks
have gone from 90% of their public being basically dirt farmers with no electricity to 300, 400
million people that are industrialized and a total economic takeover based on how enslaved
the Chinese people are. And the fact that our media ignores that it's authoritarian,
the fact that they ignore the biggest mass murders in history, the fact that they ignore
that they're in every country in the world. I mean, it was even in the Washington Post
a month ago that they caught Chinese intelligence basically running UT. Well, yeah, you show
up with $100 million. The Chinese don't play games, folks. They just start giving people
million dollar checks. And it's so embarrassing for UT. I knew about this couple years ago.
It's so embarrassing to UT because they got into all the DARPA stuff. This stuff's not
really guarded. Okay. I know what's at UT. I shouldn't even know. I was led into a DARPA
area 16 years ago and I couldn't believe the guy let me in. I said, are you crazy? And
he later went to MIT. He's one of their top people. And he said, oh, it's no big deal.
They don't care. And I was I was shown incredible stuff. And again, the rooms weren't classified.
They had DARPA on the wall. It was the terminals that went to buildings outside Austin. And
and it was it was primate research. And let's just say it was like a nightmare. I only looked
at it for a couple of minutes. And I was just getting a late night tour of the psychology
department. The Communist Chinese were given control of that. In fact, type it in UT caught
getting Chinese government intelligence money. I'm just using UT as a microcosm of two miles
from where we broadcast from. Okay. That's what I'm getting at how crazy all this is
and how they've got this giant blue water merchant Navy that's really intelligence and
military operatives. And they're buying everybody off. They bought up Hollywood. They're moving
against everybody. And Trump is absolutely right to be standing up against him and having
our ships come to the South China Sea. They've always gone through there. And the last time
somebody said no was the Japanese. So this is such a big deal. And then to see Russia
being who's being demonized, if the Russians were blocking the North Sea and saying we
couldn't navigate through it, I'd say that's an act of war. If the Russians had bought
up most of Hollywood, I'd be very upset. If the Russians were involved at UT in the physics
department, the psychology department, which is really the department of war, I would be
very upset. They are in our business. Jack Pesovic, you know, not wearing your naval
intelligence. This is a patriot and a citizen as a reporter. How do we quantify how big
this threat is? Because I'm not defending Russia, but the distraction of Russia is for
me is a major issue because we're looking at a group that can barely get their stoplights
working nationwide and has major collapse issues. That's why Soros is on their ass in
my view. Give me your expert opinion. And I look at China, who is just leveraging their
hardworking people that are slaves and our media rolling on a red carpet, and it just
makes me get angry.
Yeah, Alex, what people don't understand is how much US trade and how much of world
trade and in just in terms of goods and products are going through the South China Sea that
are going through merchant shipping lanes through the Straits of Malacca there that are coming
up through. So pretty much almost all of the world's oil is coming through a lot of these
areas, so much in terms of energy, so much in terms of just our regular consumer products
are coming through these areas and going to our trading partners as well. So what we've
got to look at is what if we get to a situation where China, now they're not focusing on this
in a direct confrontation, because that's what China does, but what they're focusing
on is slowly but surely, gobbling up all the avenues of economic power, economic security.
Got a great view here, you can show this, where so much trade even coming out of Korea,
so much of the Korean situation goes through this that people aren't pointing two and two
together on because this is the power that China is trying to achieve. They're not just
looking at the military power, they're having economic power first, and then they're backing
that up with their military, they're backing that up with their navy. And even today, we
live in the 21st century, but still something like 95% of goods are shipped on the seas.
So any of the goods that you're getting, especially with China, now there, how they
have their economy set up is a manufacturer. They don't have the raw material themselves,
they don't have raw minerals, they don't have the raw resources, they purchase it from us
and places like Africa, other different countries around the world, they manufacture it and
then they ship it back out. So they understand that for them, this is a pressure point that
they know they need to focus on imports and imports, because if we were ever to get into
a situation with China and place an naval embargo on them, or place a blockade on them,
that they wouldn't be able to fund their economy. And clearly they're gearing up, they're gearing
up for war and saying for war, and they're the ones belligerently saying they control
the South China Sea, which is a blockade of Japan and the Philippines and Taiwan and everybody
else. I mean, we have to respond to this. This is just outrageously aggressive. And
I think they're arrogant because the CFR said the Chinese century is coming. The globalist
bet on this, Devo's bets on this, they say that Jim Ping is basically their globalist
God. And so I think it's that arrogance of the globalist that has empowered the communist
Chinese to be this delusional. What it is, Alex, is they see the Chinese as going to
be the winners regardless, one way or the other. They've, they all view the people in
this sort of the Wall Street set, the New York set, they view the U.S. is in decline.
They think the U.S. doesn't have a chance of coming back to power or coming back to
power. And they're doing everything they can to make us, they're doing everything they
can, they're doing everything they can to make us decline. Sorry, you're absolutely
right. Start over. Sorry. Right. So they've, they've decided to pin their hopes and pin
their dreams and pin all of our economic successes and all of their, they're putting their money
in China. They're putting their money overseas. They're investing in China, all the foreign
direct investment they're putting out is going into China. They're filling up the coffers
of the Chinese army, the Chinese military, which gets so much of this money and they
know it. They know exactly what they're doing because they've decided that America should
be on the decline, that China is the future and they want to be in bed with these leaders.
You know, I jumped in there because as an American, I get so upset, but, but it's not
just about an ego, like they're a football team. We're a football team. They sell Christian's
organs. They sell Buddhist organs. Mal killed 80 plus million people. They've killed tens
of millions cents. They now have a dictator in Xi Jinping and our media defends it. And
it just shows how authoritarian they are when they have these kids marches over 16 dead
trying to take our rights. And I know the communist Chinese are on record, Jack, funding Hollywood,
funding liberal media, funding universities, literally pushing this anti-America agenda
to make sure with regulations and control.
Well, using children is, is a Maoist tactic. This goes back to the Cultural Revolution,
Chairman Mao and the Red Guards. It was all led by these hyperpartisan children that were
targeting teachers, targeting parents, targeting anybody that was considered against the revolution.
They called it counter-revolutionary, struggle sessions out in public, forcing apologies.
And if they didn't believe you enough, well, you got off.
Now, what you just said is so critical. You're a naval officer, a patriot, a successful guy
in the free market of ideas, one of the biggest Trump organizations out there, and you're
laying out what is known fact in the Pentagon, what is known fact in Hollywood, the globalist
Lloyd Blankfein bragged a few months ago and said, you'll never build America's infrastructure.
You're done. It's over. China's the future. Well, notice he's out. Trump is literally
standing up and trying to just be fair and get a some industry, some jobs, some future
when everything's been decided to sell out America. And this is an anti-American 21st
century war to deindustrialize us. It's a fact. And it's being orchestrated and funded
by the Communist Chinese at the universities with literal mal-youth brigades as the model
to intimidate us into submission. How could all Americans not join Trump and us to say
no to this, Jack?
Yeah, you know, I've actually talked to some folks over in Europe, people that are the
family members of mine and friends in Poland that said, don't give up your rights. Don't
do it. This is what they make you do. This is they make you think it's smart, but don't
give up your rights. Never give up your rights.
Jack, you just hit it. Why is Eastern Europe the most on fire sector of the world awake
to what's happening? We'll talk about that. Poland, Hungary, they get it. They understand
it. What's happening in the East. We'll be back. It's been sold out for months. And now
it's back. It's micro ZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up signed
to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer scalability. But
now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39 50% off because there's a lot of product
and a lot of ingredient micro ZX. Now it's the other side of the equation. Everybody
thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the
environment, pesticides, herbicides, but more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics
help this place. Yeast mold creates slime walls. And once the candida and the yeast
and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues. Well,
this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that
slime wall. Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late. Pick up a
bottle of the new and improve micro ZX plus now from the info wars store introducing cell
force by info wars life. Cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines. Cell
force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular
engine overhaul. Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start
producing reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by
cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species. The antioxidants found in
cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market. The stronger the antioxidant,
the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from info wars life. Head to info wars life dot
com or call 1-888-253-3139. I'm so excited the new product info wars
life dot com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute
top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have
any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I
just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription,
but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae
working with some scientists and developers. Non-GMO made right here in America 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red
pill now available at info wars store dot com and your purchase fuzz the operation. After
years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest
cutting edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids. One of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolife advanced restoration. And we also have an every day extremely affordable
fluorolife every day maintenance. But all of these are the very cutting edge top of the
line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal
here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. When you purchase it and info
wars store dot com, you know, you are also financing the attack on the globalist and
the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We we are now ladies and gentlemen under the globalist blood screen. You know, I said I'd
go to calls, but our guest is leaving us here. I'm going to open the phones up for Ben Garrison
coming up. He likes to take phone calls. Maybe we'll take a few here with Jack Pesovic.
The toll free number to join us is 877-789-2539-877-789. Alex first time callers again, 877-789-2539.
I promise they're staying to the show with like 15 colors on hold. I will get to all
your calls, at least those that call in right now. Look, I'm going to go back to Jack Pesovic
here in just a moment. I'm going to lay it out to you. I've studied the Renaissance.
I studied Western civilization. I studied China. I studied Japan. I studied Latin America.
I studied it all. Not because I was a bookworm. It was so incredibly interesting when I was
10 years old and started reading history books. I've read thousands of history books. I haven't
read one in a couple of years. I'm too busy now, but I've got my world database. And when
you know history, that's why Pesovic so smart. He immediately started saying the communist
Chinese are modeling after U.S. expansion, after William McKinley and the Spanish American
War. Now, that's actually what the Naval War College and all them actually understand
and what the Chinese War College has said. So you're not telling you something classified,
but that's actually the thinking. This is going on. The decision has been made that
China is the model for global domination. If China was free market and China treated
people with respect, I don't care. The left has made America go into decline. They're
using leftist controls to make us sabotage. China has zero taxes on the elite. China has
it all set up so we can't compete. That's how evil the left is. They are out to destroy
the country. They want your guns. They want your churches. They want your life. They want
to break you. They want to dominate you. And the decision has been made by the big banks
in Hollywood to do this. That's why this is such a war and why it's so critical. And
that's why things are so serious. But I want to get into Eastern Europe. Article came out
this weekend. The head of the Hungarian parliament came out and laid out. They want to end our
families. They're erasing all culture. They're the enemy. We must stop it. Why does Eastern
Europe get it? We'll talk to Jack Mesopek in a moment. But first, we are running a special
50% off on BrainForce, which is the ultimate new tropic out there for the price. Leading
competitors that have similar formulas are $50 to $80. They're not even as strong. They're
not even as organic. BrainForce, ladies and gentlemen, all said and done, cost us over
$10 a bottle. In 1995, that's insane. The average supplement has a seven-time markup.
It's a great deal at $35. It's 50% off right now. 1995, see how great it is. Natural,
healthy pickup, the key elements, some of the stuff's prescription in Europe. Infowarsstore.com,
Infowarslife.com. We have a special running with the real red pill. That takes a week.
It's a seven-day challenge. BrainForce kicks in in 30 minutes. But we have the BrainForce
Plus real red pill, mind and body challenge pack, 50% off in store for a limited time.
We're giving you a powerful combo pack to help you boost your body, your mind to the
limits healthily with BrainForce Plus and the real red pill with the mind and body challenge.
The combo pack features BrainForce Plus and the real red pill together for an impressive
and 50% off savings. I should add free shipping. You can get them both 50% off by themselves.
With free shipping, we get them together. With BrainForce Plus supporting supercharging
your state of mind and the red pill supporting healthy aging and cognitive function, these
formulas together can help you push your mind and body to the next level. Together, these
products have an average of 4.7 out of five-star rating. So, again, together, these products
have an average of 4.7 out of five-star rating. These powerful products are some of the most
advanced formulas yet to help you change your mind and body. Get the BrainForce Plus and
the real red pill together with the mind and body challenge at m4warstore.com, m4warslife.com,
50% off, and free shipping. We got books, t-shirts, videos, radios, water filtration,
all of it's just high quality products that you and your family need. David Hogg on C-Span
goes, you notice Jones claims there's chemicals in the water that are bad for you and that
give you cancer, and then he sells you water filters. Hogg, you caught me in my slick deception.
Now, see, Hogg, teleprompter readers, actors, decepticons, they're always thinking of the
angle or the scam. See, with me, it's all slamming into you straight on, straight shooting.
That's how old-fashioned Texas do it. See, yes, I filter my water. Yes, the water's full
of glyphosates and poison. Yes, we have the very highest-rated, gravity-fed filters and
other systems. We have six or seven of the best companies out there. They're all apples
and oranges. Some are better at this. Some are better than that. But whatever the highest-rated
stuff is, I go become a distributor. I get the best sales of it. I get the lowest price
to buy it in bulk so we can find the operation. So, yes, David Hogg's like, notice, he says
the water's got toxins, and then you should filter it, and then he sells filters. Oh my
gosh. Oh my God. Oh, wow, you figure. Again, he thinks that's a scam. See, you can't cheat
an honest man, they used to say. But it's always the people that are into scams and deception
that see everything else as a scam. Yes, Hogg, we're selling water filters. I really believe
you need them. The studies show it. All right, enough of me. We got this little segment.
One more with Jack Pesovic. Then, calls coming up. Jack, Eastern Europe, the Czech Republic,
Poland, Hungary, Romania, Russia, to a great extent, rediscovering Christian roots, rejecting
Islamic invasion, rejecting sorrows. I read the statements of the speeches of the presidents
and prime ministers. It's like info wars. It's like Jack Pesovic, the eugenics, the
end of our family, the global corporate takeover. What is going on in the East? Well, Alex,
in Eastern Europe, they've been through this so many times before with different invasions,
whether it be from the Ottoman Turks, whether it be from the Huns in Central Asia that have
come through. They've fought for their civilization. They fought for their culture so many times
and they just got over the Communist, essentially, Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe with the
Warsaw Pact. They're still digging out from under that, and that's why they understand
and are so sensitive to any of these takeover attempts, any of these foreign ideologies
that are being pushed on top of them by these people that are going after, they're trying
to change this, and they're trying to stop anyone who speaks out against it. They're
trying to shut anyone down who is a whistleblower. We now know, of course, one piece of the information
that my sources are telling me, Alex, is that you mentioned Cambridge Analytica earlier
and the investigation. What I've heard is that actually they're trying to tie that back
to Julian Assange and WikiLeaks and his activity that had gone on during the election. They're
trying to tie it back, say that he took stolen documents and posted them on Facebook and
posted them on Twitter and that Cambridge Analytica was driving the whole thing and they're trying
to use this to pin down a charge on Assange to essentially indict him and Mueller knows
this and Mueller is looking at this. This is something that MI6 really wants. This is
something that U.S. secret agencies want, the intel agencies that wanted for a long
time to get Assange under something. They're trying to pin this all on Assange to shut
him up, to shut down WikiLeaks because they don't want anyone essentially, and what was
their crime, right? They told you what the leaders were doing.
Jack, you talk about the instinct that Eastern Europe to stand up against being overrun.
How do we reach out to the average leftist that's brainwashed so they understand you
are being enslaved. You are a chump. You are buying Soros propaganda.
You know, one thing I like to do is to say, why is it that all of these celebrities agree
with you? Why is it that when everyone in power, everyone in the mainstream media agrees
with every single one of the talking points that you're saying, are you really being rebellious
when you've got this entire establishment that's echoing the exact same talking points
and phrases that you are? And I've noticed that with some of them, with the ones that
are at least willing to have some of that introspection, they will actually kind of
consider that and say, you know, that's weird. I didn't think about it that way.
And again, less than 10% MSNBC admits were actually under the age of 18. This is giant,
ridiculous astroturf. And I go back to that question. Trump on the omnibus bill, you know,
giving lip service to the gun control. What do you think he's doing there?
You know, I think it's, it's appeasement. Alex, it's, he's trying to appease the left.
He's trying to say that he's doing something that's, that's bipartisan.
I agree, but that only encourages these people.
They, they said there was this one student that gave a speech at the March for our lives
and said, if you give us an inch on bump stocks, we will take a mile. That was specifically
what the quote was.
Yeah, that was Delaney Tard. We have that clip of her. Here she is.
There are so very many things, so many steps to take. Like right now, sign our petition.
It takes two seconds and it matters. We will take the big and we will take the small, but
we will keep fighting. When they give us that inch, that bump stock ban, we will take a
mile. We are not here for breadcrumbs. We are here for real change.
And there you go. I mean, they just, I said that in my, my ears went straight up. My antenna
went straight up and said, there it is. That's, that's the signal right there.
We got to go to break to five more minutes with you because I want to ask you a critical
question. I want to ask the audience this question. I want to ask them to think about
this. Why after decades of saying they don't want to confiscate the guns, they don't want
to repeal the Second Amendment. Why suddenly at the March to grab your guns, at the March
to enslave America on the New York Times, former Supreme Court justices, why are they
suddenly admitting they want to confiscate the guns? Why are they now admitting it?
Because when they finally get to the point of doing it, they've got to go from denying
it to doing it. That's why that's my answer. I'm going to ask the subject what he thinks.
Your phone calls coming up. Please spread the live links. However you're watching or listening.
Without you, the globalist will win. We are in a war. This is the fight for the second
American revolution and it's worldwide. Stay with us.
The reason InfoWars Live has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want
products I'm going to use for my family. I take this. My family takes this and then
it funds the operation. But the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find
anywhere. So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at
InfoWarsLive.com. If I ever forget to take them, like I'm having
noticeable difference. I don't feel good. The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was
life changing for me. Yeah, I've actually just run out of my super
female. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again. Hitting the gym
once again. Very exciting. Feeling great. Looking good. And I know my hair is luxurious
once again. So obviously the super female is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say
is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2. It's got
a five star rating. It's a win-win. InfoWarsLive.com.
and they will use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this, the only
way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clinched
fist of truth.
We stop this. The only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we tend to procrastinate throughout our lives and we wake up dead. But not me. I'm not going to roll over and pretend I'm fighting the globalists. I'm going to do it.
We were getting into why they're suddenly admitting they want to ban the guns and confiscate them. It's like they're trying to start a civil war. Why have they denied they want the guns? When all over the world is the same formula, their internal documents show they want to confiscate the guns.
It's total slavery. It's like they've done in China. Why suddenly do you think they're admitting their plan to confiscate our firearms?
Yeah, Alex, part of it on one hand is that they're overstepping. Another part of it is that they're ginning up their base as much as possible for the 2018 elections.
They're throwing out just as much, you know, just like when when the Republicans come out and say we're going to do this and that and then they never do it when they get into office.
That's something the Democrats are doing now too. That's some of these talking points we're starting to see. They're going more and more extreme because they want the hardcore left wingers to be coming out for the midterm elections.
That's something that was really, really pushed at this at this march is make sure you come out to vote. Make sure you register to vote. Make sure you're there in November.
I don't see anyone doing that on the right. I don't see anyone on the right putting together rallies like this or tying it back to elections, tying it back to the fact that we're in a huge midterm.
And if the Democrats do take the House, the very first thing they're going to do is look at impeachment charges for Trump. They know exactly how to do this.
They're going to take control of the House Judiciary Committee and they're going to tie it all back. They're trying to get as many of these blue, blue wave types to come out in the election.
And they're going to say anything they can possibly do to get it.
Well, my friend, you're absolutely right. And the Democrats are fully engaged, fully awake. And as long as we get engaged and awake, we'll win because we have the intellectual arguments.
We have the history. We have the thinkers, not the stinkers. And I think there's a major miscalculation here. If we do our job and get involved and engage, there's nothing they can do because we have the facts and history on our side.
And I think the globalists and their admission, they're coming for the guns. And as you said earlier, this overreach will blow up in their face if we show up.
But if we don't show up to the polls or show up at the rallies or show up calling in to C-SPAN or show up writing books or show up making films or show up supporting broadcasts like these or what you do, if we don't engage every day, we will lose.
But if we realize this is the animating contest of liberty and freedom isn't free and that a control freak culture of brainwashed young people from public schools is literally seeing their career as running our lives, if we take action, they will lose.
Yeah, that's exactly it, Alex. Honestly, I think that if this election becomes about the Second Amendment, it's going to be very hard to not see a lot of people on the right coming out to vote and actually going backfiring on the left in terms of their overreach here.
Because if you tell people that we're going to take your guns, then that's actually something that's going to get a lot of people off their seats, off their butts and out to the polls in November because let's face it, the Republicans aren't doing themselves any favors with this omnibus bill.
They're not doing themselves any favors by trying to block Trump, everything he's trying to do, block his nominees, block this and that. He's getting some of the bad people out of his offices for now.
But when it comes down to it, the Republican Party just hasn't been pro-Trump. They haven't been supportive of the president's agenda and I think it's turned off a lot of voters.
So you make this election about guns, suddenly they have a chance and maybe even have a chance to get some real pro-Trump conservatives in the primary system, get rid of some of these never-Trump incumbents.
Bottom line, Jack Pasobic, we are living history right now and thank God you're out there, thank God so many other people are out there.
I know you're a big Trump supporter, so am I, but I thought he got rid of a bunch of neocons and globalists, but we need to really keep his feet to the fire and make sure we get the word out to him so that he stays on the straight and narrow and realizes compromising with the globalists.
That way is destruction.
CitizensforTrump.com on Twitter, Jack Pasobic. We'll talk to you again soon, Jack. Thanks for all the time and great job covering the gun grabber march.
Thanks, Alex.
Alright, we'll be right back, ladies and gentlemen. Why didn't Fox News pointing out it's Soros funded? Why do we have to do it?
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfowarsLife. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfowarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Infowars comes to mind. Alex Jones.
But there's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones.
Google is being accused of hiding negative stories about Hillary and her campaign by changing its algorithm to various stories like the Clinton body count story. That's according to website Infowars.
It's fabricated from our recent shooters with fully automatic weapons. Dr. Martin Luther King has been shot to death in Memphis, Tennessee.
JFK was shot from the back and the front.
He was almost accused of a planned impulsion. It's just hanging.
He took the baby out of the incubators. He left the children to die on the cold spot.
I think this is a national security impairment. We have clear things that we do not understand how they work, operating in areas that we can't control.
U.S.O.
Is this global governance at last? Is it one world? The central bank has been charged.
Israel claims the attack was accidental. Some former U.S. naval officers say it was on purpose. They describe today's action as part of a continuing color line.
Russian intelligence compiled a dossier on Mr. Trump during visits to Moscow.
Russian, stop.
Denied everything. He called it all fake news.
And he accused CNN of being fake news.
This is a national emergency.
If they kill Trump or remove Trump, it will cause a massive civil war in this country.
This is a female high-level emergency.
You are at war with Russia.
Are you aware that Mr. Stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with Julian Assange and Whitwigs?
The White House and the President are citing info wars.
They can shut us down. You're next.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. It's Alex Jones.
I'm just going to get into all the Hollywood people that are anti-gun than improperly using firearms and movies and the fact that by extension YouTube banning average citizens displaying firearms using firearms.
They've opened themselves up to total discrimination lawsuits because they let Twitch and Amazon and all these other platforms show guns being used improperly, simulated murders, real murders.
You name it, billions of people watching a week.
Virginia Tech.
Tucson.
Aurora.
Fort Hood.
Oak Creek.
Newtown.
Newtown.
Newtown.
Newtown.
How many more?
And then they want to ban thousands of pro-gun shells. That's what's being banned.
And it's a monopoly action by Hollywood and the dirtbags. And it's against the gun culture.
My name is Hank Strange and I wanted to make a video because YouTube has recently, as a matter of fact, last night or early this morning, clarified their rules on firearms in videos.
We're in a highly regulated field already and what we do is legal. We wouldn't do something illegal. We don't do illegal things anyway, but we definitely wouldn't do something illegal and then post it as a video.
But YouTube is just basically making up their own rules specifically for gun guys. So obviously they have a problem with us.
You know, we didn't hurt anyone and yet we find ourselves in a position where YouTube is definitely setting us up so that they can start deleting channels or making strikes.
And for sure, they're removing our ability to speak freely about something that is absolutely legal and, as a matter of fact, guaranteed by the Second Amendment here in America.
The new sports stars, like Ready Player One, are going to be virtual reality players with billions of people watching world championships of different types of video games.
That is just mind blowing.
There'll be probably at any given time 40 to 50 players actually playing, but the featured match will be on the big screen for everybody to watch and that'll have commentators calling play by play in the match and then that'll be streamed on Twitch.
We'll probably have around 10 to 20,000 viewers online of this tomorrow.
Now, this is not an attack on the First Amendment that's happening. This is an attack on the Second Amendment and it's an attack on every other amendment.
But when I say it's not an attack on the First Amendment, that's already under total attack.
This attack on the First is to get the Second because if they can shut down our free speech on YouTube, Facebook, everywhere and kill the gun culture, they think they're going to win.
But it really is an attack on them all.
And we've got the Hong Kong Stock Exchange down 1.90 points. It's all going to happen. It's a war. It's what it's about.
We'll see who blanks first.
But here we are, the American people, in full war, Trump, you, everybody, together, right at that magic point where their world government was launching and we were supposed to fall to take it all away from them.
Almost like it was planned.
That's right, my friends. You will be defeated, globalists.
Now, folks, we're going to go to break in a few minutes and come back with Ben Garrison of grrgraphics.com.
He is probably the most prolific, if not the most prolific political editorialist out there in the world today.
And now they've got animated, animated Ben Garrison graphics.
We'll put the YouTube channel up and maybe put some of those on screen for TV viewers right now and we'll get Ben Garrison to tell us where people can find all of those.
But I really love seeing these animated.
You know, Ben told me years ago that that particular famous one we have framed on the wall here, that that is one inspired by one of my allegories of the left-right paradigm when it's controlled.
So that's all coming up, ladies and gentlemen, with these new animated graphics that just take it to a whole another level.
In fact, you could say he was the most prolific and most successful.
I think with these now being animated, that this is definitely the next level.
And we are in an information war.
They are definitely scared of him.
Everybody needs to follow him at Garrison Toons there on Twitter.
And I've intended to do this and I keep waiting and procrastinating.
I've carried some of his coffee table books and things in foreshore.com.
But I want to work with him with limited edition prints and really make him for a clearinghouse for this stuff because art is culture. Art is a weapon.
You also follow him again at graphics grrgraphics.
That's his main Twitter, but he's also got the animated one because you'll see his graphics shared by millions of people, but that it's always on somebody else's channel.
How about share it actually where it came from to support the artists because they have targeted him obviously.
They've tried to shut him down. They've tried to block him.
He's been published many times, all the biggest magazines and newspapers, but not so much now that he's been a libertarian and a patriot and pro-american.
So he's not just a great graphics guy, he's also a patriot.
And that's what this comes down to. We're going to go to break and come back to him here in just a moment.
We're under globalist attack and we sell products to fund the operation, to syndicate the radio show, to syndicate the TV show, to make the news reports, to write the articles, to have the investigative crew.
And we're running a special right now that is 50% off our best selling product, BrainForce, which is a top quality brain pill, Neutropic, super healthy for your mind, your mental stamina, your acuity, your focus.
And then it's 50% off by itself or with the real red pill that has the preglonone that is the precursor to all your hormones that after age 20-25 starts going down.
Without the preglonone in your body naturally, you can't produce. Your body can't even make the hormones it normally needs.
So it's not hormone replacement. It's natural. It's healthy. It's safe.
It is simply the precursor to it all with a bunch of key vitamins and minerals and amino acids so your body can then metabolize it and use it.
There's a seven day challenge. This brain force hits you in 30 minutes.
The real red pill takes about a week or so until you really feel the effects, taking it in the morning and at night.
And it's incredible. The two go together. So we have a special. We're running right now at infowarstore.com.
BrainForce Plus and real red pill, mind and body challenge pack, 50% off. Go read what's in BrainForce.
Go read what's in the real red pill and find out about it all.
Also, it's going to be called DNA Force Plus when it comes in about a month with the bio-PQQ, the CoQ10 and all the other key cofactors.
Super strong. We're going to call itself, well Dr. Group was putting out a DNA force that was great and was very strong.
But then I got a bigger national manufacturer to put it out. I didn't want to step on his toes so I called it Cell Force.
But then he said, hey, I don't care. This is a better formula. Call it DNA Force Plus. So when it comes back, it's going to be called DNA Force Plus.
But we have a few hundred bottles left of the Cell Force. Under that name, 50% off. You cannot get a better deal on that.
For your mitochondria, for your telemeters, all of it, infowarstore.com, infowarstore.com, or triple A25313.
Now if that's going to sell out in a matter of days, that price will be back.
ID Stronghold Wallets are different. They may look the same on the outside. They're stylish. They'll hold your cards in cash.
But they're hiding something great on the inside. No, there are no pyrotechnics. And it doesn't sing when you open it. But it does have magical powers.
ID Stronghold Wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing right next to you.
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking past you. Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID badge.
ID Stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology. Over 12 years ago, ID Stronghold's wallets, sleeves and badge holders are trusted by the U.S. military and the Executive Office of the President.
Something the competitors can't say. Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code MAGIC at checkout for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
You're two months supplied today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Alright folks, thank you for joining us on radio. TB viewers are watching us on stations across the country and infowars.com.
I don't need to impress on listeners and viewers that I've got a broken headpiece and I can't hear it all now. So when I get another one, we'll get Ben Garrison on.
Now, that said, there is so much going on in this world, there is so much happening, and we're in the fight for our lives right now. That's what this comes down to.
And I'm just going to give the floor to Ben Garrison here, who is probably the top, I don't want to brag but I think he probably is, the top graphic artist, political artist in the country, in the world right now.
And you see his work everywhere on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube. I want to ask him how he's been censored. So everybody who's pro-America, pro-free markets being censored.
I know that he's had all sorts of threats, you name it, but they don't want to get his political view, not just his great political view on paper with pen and ink, but just his great points about what's happening in the world.
So my friend, you go ahead and take over here and give us your view on where you think the state of the Republic is, the Supreme Court just is coming out, saying that they're going to confiscate the firearms.
I mean, now they're being so honest about it. What would you call this period in history we're in right now?
I kind of see it as a spinning top and it's starting to wobble. I mean, a lot of people thought it would collapse a long time ago. I mean, G. Edward Griffin thought it would all collapse in the late 80s.
And they keep kicking that can down the road and I keep expecting it to get more and more destabilized and now we're beginning to see it because they're really driving hard to the hoop to take our guns.
And if they get the guns, then you might as well kiss all the rest of our bill of rights away too, because if that goes, all the pillars will collapse.
If you see the Second Amendment as a pillar and they take that pillar out, the rest of the pillars are going to collapse. That's a good cartoon right there. I should draw that.
The thing I'm seeing here, Alex, and you've mentioned this before, but I've really become sensitized to this two-word phrase used by the left progressives, the Democrats, and even some conservatives.
This two-word phrase is our democracy. And every time I hear it, I get angry because we're not a democracy, we're a public.
Now, you most recently heard it from that little twerp named Hogg and he said that his, the old folks, old folks like me, we don't understand how to run a democracy.
Well, obviously, we're not a democracy. And he never learned this fact. We're a republic. And there's a big difference between a republic and a democracy.
And a lot of young people don't know the difference because 50% of them want socialism. And Karl Marx says a democracy is a good thing because it's on the road to socialism.
And that's what they're all after. And so the first step of this, of getting us onto the road to socialism was the Federal Reserve in 1913 and then making us pay a graduated income tax.
So all of their pieces are falling into place and now they really want those guns.
Ben, what do you think about Trump? Some people say he's starting to go sideways. All I know is people use that as an excuse to not be politically active themselves.
I mean, I'm not here to defend Trump. All I know is, is that it's like the forces of Mordor have marched out of hell.
Oh, yeah. Well, first of all, it wasn't a budget. It was a bill, an ominous bill. And we must remember that even under Obama, there was no budget.
The Congress is incapable of passing a budget anymore. So they packed everything into a bill and, you know, like Obama signed it and that's why the debt doubled under his reign.
Now, when I first started supporting Trump, I drew a cartoon of him pulling the plug on the swamp and I had a big giant looming Trump yanking out the plug and I had all those vile characters swirling down the drain.
But then after he's elected, I realized that I have to draw something to illustrate the swamp a little better than that because the swamp is much vaster and deeper that even I had realized.
So Trump has only been in office, you know, he's only been in office two years and he's dealing with this deep state swamp in the shadow government and it's not going to be drained instantly.
Let's face it, this, this swamp has been building up since Eisenhower warned us about, about the deep state, you know, 60 years ago, more than that.
And Kennedy tried to fight against the deep state swamp and they whacked him. So over a period of time, this swamp has just grown immense and it's not going to be, it's not going to be solved with a snap of the fingers.
And I think Trump is starting to realize that.
So at the very least, what he, what he's doing, I think he's, he's going to try to divert some of these military funds into building a wall and what I hope is a military tribunal.
Because our republic demands, our republic is, this is not a democracy, our republic is based on law. It's not based on men and their capriciousness.
It's based on law, which should be equally applied to everyone. And that mostly, most critical person that should be applied to, in my opinion, is Hillary Clinton and she really needs to be locked up.
So if we can, that's because she's almost becoming a symbol now. And if you can't lock her up, then you know that the deep state swamp is still in charge.
So I still support Trump. Let me put it this way. I've got more patience because I'm an old guy and I see how fast time goes by.
I mean, the bird of time is on the wing and it has about a little way to fly and you realize how fast life goes by and how quickly time goes by.
We haven't given Trump enough time to really prove himself.
Now, if he doesn't get some more accomplishments done and then over the, you know, these first four years and yeah, maybe, maybe we should consider somebody like Rand Paul.
I don't know, but we've got to give him a chance still. I mean, I don't like that bill or that ominous bill anymore than anybody else.
And a matter of fact, my wife Tina just drew a cartoon on this matter and it's on our site now.
And I should mention that she's going to be drawing her own cartoon every Tuesday. It's called Tina Tuesday.
As far as I know, Alex, we're the only man and wife conservative cartoonist team in history to team up and start drawing these cartoons.
Now, being a conservative cartoonist these days is rare enough, but then having a female conservative cartoonist, that's extremely rare.
But then when you team it up with a man and a wife team, I've never heard of that in history, so we hope we can make a little bit of history.
How many cartoons have you put out over the years?
Oh, hundreds. I haven't kept track of them, but we're trying to draw more and fortunately we're able to get some support now.
And I couldn't do it without the help of my support. I just couldn't. And I couldn't especially do it without the help of Tina.
Tina is teamed up with an animator in Montreal and his name is Paco LaBelle and he's a renaissance man. He can do anything.
And he started animating my cartoons and I looked at these things and said, wow, these are better than your originals.
And so we've got to deal with him and he's going to continue to do those animations and we've got a link to it on our site.
And Tina will continue to draw her cartoons. It will be called Tina Tuesday. So every Tuesday you get to see her work.
And it's a lot of fun to do and it's something that I hope has a small modicum effect on people's minds.
Man, you're doing a great job. Let's take phone calls and cover the waterfront of news with Ben Garrison.
Straight ahead, I'm Alex Jones, NewsWars.com. Stay with us.
Today in Take Back Your Liberty, your free speech alternative is waiting for you at OneWay.com. OneWay.com.
Ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America.
And encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The Super Blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting. Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Super high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
You know, when I get up here and I say I'm upset about the globalists and all the stuff they're doing, it's true. I'm going to be honest with you.
I wish I was a sociopath. I wish I was a psychopath. Sometimes I wish I didn't care because knowing how evil George Soros is, knowing how fake the gun march is, knowing how evil CNN is,
knowing how the Communist Chinese have murdered 80 plus million of their own people and are taking over and own Hollywood and UT and it's all over the news.
It's total authoritarianism. If I saw my neighbor's house getting broken into by a criminal, I would get upset about it.
It's our whole world. We know socialism is a nightmare. We know globalism is a system of total control. We know, I remember 20 years ago,
I went to a smart growth conference where they were stealing all these farmers and ranchers' land all around Austin. They built mansions all over it now.
And I learned it was this UN Agenda 21 scam for developers to take land off, use, increase the price of their land, and later take the restrictions off.
And I remember going to this brand new convention center downtown and they had former Dallas Cowboys there and all these movie stars.
And I remember going up and saying, hey, it's a scam. They're taking farmers' land. And I remember I didn't have my camera on.
Back then it was a big camera. And this Dallas Cowboy goes, get out of my way before I kick your ass. Of course it's a scam. You schmuck.
And they were all laughing and rubbing their hands together. And it was the big banks. And I was sitting there watching it.
And I was like, being in an old Western or Louis LeMour book, you know, where the railroad comes in, is steal folks' land.
But it was going on. And then then I'm the schmuck. I'm the weirdo. I'm the bad guy because I don't want to screw people. And I'm not even a perfect person.
And then they make me so mad that I am miserable. I'm a miserable person. I don't enjoy cars, food, nothing anymore.
My children's the only thing. And the states tried to take those. And I'm not bitching and complaining.
But all that's left is the First Amendment, the Second Amendment, and not letting these people rule our lives. That's all I got left now.
And I'm empowered. I'm not complaining. But I don't know how to get out of this mode of just detesting these people.
And the astroturf. And I guess it's cathartic to do a cartoon or do a video. That's what makes me feel better is to expose them and to see them.
But let me ask you this question, Ben Garrison, of graphics.com. How do you deal with this?
Because you seem positive. You seem like a good guy when I've talked to you on and off here. How do you deal with being censored, being attacked?
I feel sorry for ourselves, but I'm kind of pissed. Because this isn't like a football game where we're just playing the other team and they're okay guys.
The globalists are real authoritarians. I mean, they're the grandchildren of the Stalinist situation. They're the grandchildren of Hitler.
They're the ideological children of this and they know it and they're bad. And I'm tired of letting them run around and say they want to kill us and their intimidation and their crap.
I want to sweep them. Do you get where I'm going and we're going to phone calls?
What? Are you talking to me?
I'm asking you, what do we do? I mean, do you get what I'm saying? Do you ever feel they're evil? Do you ever get sick of engaging them?
Do you ever just wish you were on another planet away from these people? Have you gone to a leftist rally? They look like a bunch of dead people.
Like their souls have been sucked out. Like, what the hell? I don't even hate them. They're just like moron, loser zombies. What do we do?
What we saw is George Soros' astroturf march. And this is what, this ties into what I was saying about how they want a democracy.
Because a democracy is the road to socialism. They want to control, first of all, this part of the agenda 21, they want to put everybody in cities.
Remember how Hillary's bragging how she got all the big cities voted for her? Because it's easier to control the mob mine.
All a tyrant needs to do is control the mobs and promise them free stuff. And then they're going to get the votes.
And then they go to government and make government even bigger and more tyrannical and take away free liberties. And that's what's going on right now.
Exactly. But do you ever get like a suffocation feeling? Like, I mean, it's like being underwater, like get off my back, while there's always parasites trying to run our lives.
How do you deal with that?
Well, I do. I express my anger through cartoons. And I first got very angry when the banks got bailed out in 2008, when Hank Paulson went to Congress, threatened Congress.
He should have been arrested right on the spot.
He said there'll be blood in the streets, tanks on the ground, martial law if you don't give me the money.
And when nothing happened and instead they gave a gigantic bonus to all the bankers, first and foremost, they got their bonus for being criminals, for peddling fraudulent derivatives to real estate.
It's real estate derivative fraud. But instead they got rewarded. And so here I saw criminals getting not punished but rewarded.
So the only thing I could do was to, well, I'm going to draw some protest cartoons, not knowing where it would lead.
I would be happy if maybe a half dozen or a dozen people saw my cartoon. And now it's morphed into this.
But you know, this also, I also enjoy, there came a point where I got so, I was attacked so verently and so incessantly for every day. And I got an avalanche of hate mail and I got trolled terribly.
I mean, I had to leave the art galleries in because the trolls attacked the owner of the art gallery I was in.
So I was like at a moment where I'm going to have to give up drawing the cartoons. And I was like white hot mad all the time.
But you know, I remember something you said a long time ago that you enjoyed getting trolled and you laughed about it. And I'm at that state now.
And a matter of fact, there's some guy who wrote and said, if I could throw the entire earth into the sun just to get it gursing, I'd do it.
So I realized I'm really making these liberals mad and that makes me happy.
No, I agree. I agree. But that's the average idiot liberal. And I've been positive and I don't mind being attacked and trolled.
But now realizing that the globalists are as evil as we thought and that people don't wake up to it quicker.
It's very frustrating because it's their own best interest, Ben, to wake up.
They are waking up. Thanks. Well, thanks a large part to you. Remember how, you know, when I started, I was getting all kind of y'all, you're a conspiracy theory.
You're a nut. You've got tin foil hat. Well, now it's no longer a conspiracy theory. It's just a conspiracy and we see it and they're out in the open.
And more and more people are waking up. And that's why they're so angry that Trump went along with this ominous bill.
So I was about to say, I mean, I'm going to say this on air. I'm really upset off air as well. And I'm trying to be positive.
And I'm usually somebody that's very upbeat and there's a lot of positive things.
I can just feel the energy of the globalists right now is so evil. That's it. They're getting ready to do something big.
My gut tells me all hell's about to break loose, Ben, and my guts never wrong. So I'm kind of psychoanalyzing why I'm so upset.
But can't you feel the rumblings of the big storm coming? I mean, at a gut level.
Well, that's what I said about the top, you know, how the top is spinning and it's real smooth and now it's starting to wobble.
I'm sensing a big wobble now and something's going to happen. Something's going to transpire fairly quickly.
And I'm mad at myself that I'm not strong enough in figuring out ways to do this. That's why seeing your cartoons, some of them that really are perfection,
they're all excellent, but some of them are like, couldn't be better. Like, you know when something's basically perfection, you look at it, you're like, that's perfection.
And that's why you being there makes me feel good. I don't know how to explain that. It's just these people make me sick. That's all I'm saying.
And I'm all together. I mean, if you look, if you listen to say someone like Stefan Malinou, now he employs logic reason and evidence in his arguments.
A cartoon is not really, really a logical argument.
It's our types.
Because it employs a lot of, it utilizes a lot of irrationality. I mean, if you see the lefty cartoons, I mean, they almost always use a straw man fallacy argument or ad hominem or appeal to emotion.
They do, it's all argumented to fallacy, but a good cartoon that uses satire. And by the way, I'm not funny. I'm not a comedian.
I don't, you know, a lot of people tell me I'm not funny. Well, that's fine.
You're illustrating basic truths in a, in a, in a archetypal way.
But wake up and not, I'm not there to give them a chuckle. Although sometimes my, my cartoons can be funny, but that's a byproduct of the satire.
No, let's put your four horsemen up there. It's not funny that Fukushima is dumping out death and the vaccines are killing people.
And the globalists are fomenting all this war and funding the jihadis and Al Gore wants you to pay me on his little pink horse.
That is a perfect cartoon. The new four horsemen apocalypse. That is veritas. That cartoon is as good as you can get. And it gives me solace.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
So I'm introducing the shield toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 when this is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself. You owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you the remnant of America to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together. We're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield.
InfoWarsLife.com. InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today. InfoWarsLife.com.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back. It's MycoZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability. But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39. 50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient.
MycoZX. Now it's the other side of the equation. Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls. And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
You've got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall. Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX plus now from the InfoWars store.
Hey, how you doing?
Good, brother.
Just recently start using your products. Everything you said about them is correct. Me and my wife both use a lot of them and it's made a lot of changes in our lives here.
Well, thank you, brother, because it also funds our operation. But doing that, I know I've got to have the highest quality.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
We did the super male and the super female vitality. Big changes, a lot of energy.
We've gotten off the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, a big amount of money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs, harvested around the planet and then concentrated or maximum potency.
They want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff. Just cover that up for a while, but then burn you out in my experience.
Whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally going goes right to the source. So it's pretty exciting and I love it.
Visit InfowarsLife.com today to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products from InfowarsLife.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
You know what? I need to go ahead and just raise the alarm for listeners and viewers. I've looked at the globalists.
I've looked at how they operate. I'm seeing the stuff they're doing.
And many of them want to ban the Second Amendment and kill gun owners and all this stuff on the news.
They're getting ready to pull something big. I think a giant false flag, a new war.
Just every gut level I've got is I'm just horrified, but not in a fearful way right now.
I'm horrified, but like in a way like I'm ready for war. Like I've never been.
My spider sense has never been this ramped up.
And you got the Chinese dictator threatening bloody battle against the U.S.
You got all this fake stuff being done to Russia because they're Christian.
Ben Garrison is our guest and I apologize. I'm going to your calls right now. I'm a bad person.
Ben Garrison riding shotgun with us. Let's go ahead. Who's been holding the longest here?
Let's go to Ron in Texas and Danny. Ron, thanks for holding. You're a real trooper brother.
I appreciate you. You're on the air with the greatest. I mean, just by the number of people that watch this stuff.
He is the greatest living editorial cartoonist and he's a patriot. Of course, the greatest is a patriot.
Ben Garrison, go ahead. You're on the air, Ron.
Maybe Ron didn't want to hold that long. I understand how that is, Ron. I get it.
Let's go to another caller. Let's talk to Danny. Danny in Virginia.
Danny in Virginia, you're on the air with Ben Garrison. Go ahead.
Alex, can you hear me? Yes, I can, sir. Thank you for calling.
It's a great honor to talk to you.
It's a great honor to talk to you. Go ahead.
Right in the pre-911 situation, I think the deep state is about to attack schools with false flag attacks
and they don't want teachers there to interrupt.
I agree. Listeners know this. I'm not really metaphysical, but my gut's always right.
I realize why am I freaking out today and last night at home?
I sent something, not just their actions. I'm serious.
I don't want to sound like Darth Vader or Obi-Wan Kenobi in episode four,
but I feel the disturbance of the Force the last time I felt it was right before 9-11. Go ahead.
Yeah, I think you can't tell a teacher that has a gun concealed carry in a school that he has to stand down,
but you can tell the school resource officer he has to, or you can count on him to be a coward,
or you can, you know, give notifications.
Another Democratic Party dirtbag in another blue cesspit city standing down yet again.
And I think the stand-down at Parkland actually started before the attack.
Oh, they knew he was going to attack. He said he was exactly.
Right, right. But when he called the Uber guy to come pick him up,
the resource officer at the school should have been notified that the kid that had been expelled from that school
was now going to go to that school.
That's right. He was banned.
Oh, it's incredible. They totally stood down.
And no wonder they said that we said it was all staged because evidence begins to mount in that direction
and then they didn't even want us to go there early on before they launched the big national movement.
That's an exchange there, Danny. But I mean, Ben Garrison, I'm not saying people didn't get shot.
I'm not saying they're crisis actors. They said we said that.
But when you look at the stand-down, isn't that the news issue?
Not blaming gun owners? Shouldn't we be pissed that as a constitutional right,
we are collectively being blamed for dead kids by George Soros?
Yeah, well, you know, these school shootings, a lot of them, there's something suspicious behind,
there's suspicious things going behind every one of them.
But we're not even allowed to question that anymore.
If you question it, oh, well, you're going to get banned because there's children who died
and you're questioning this or you're banned. You get kicked off the YouTube.
And all we're doing is trying to protect them.
Well, we saw what happened to James Tracy who pointed out some weird anomalies going on with Sandy Hook.
And he got on, what's that big leprechaun's name? Bill Riley.
And Bill Riley just eviscerated him on air and yelled at him at the top of his lungs.
And then James Tracy gets fired from his university and then his home gets broken into and they steal all his equipment.
And then he gets sued.
Yes. And so, boy, just for questioning it so that they don't want you to question these,
what I think a lot of them are heavy indications of false flags.
So these are kind of helped to be set up in order to reinforce their narrative that we have to give up our guns guns.
Well, let me just tell you, let me just tell you, I've been told by Army Special Operations,
the CIA, the Justice Department, the FBI, Alex, you're not going far enough.
Parkland is fake and they go, we can't get into it.
It's classified, but you need to look into this.
And I mean, this is like real phone calls with Army generals and stuff.
This is not like me just saying this on air.
And that's why they're so scared of this broadcast.
So I didn't even think it was fake.
Then they flipped out and said that I said it was fake then because they didn't even want anybody looking at it.
Exactly. I mean, it's crazy.
Well, the corporate media really losing control of the narrative to people.
Truth tellers and citizen journalists online are telling the truth and they can't have that.
So we have to be, now we have to be just summarily kicked off of Google and Twitter.
I'm just kind of surprised that I'm lasted as long as I have, but some people tell me,
well, you just haven't gotten fully ripe yet.
They're going to kick you off.
But man, they can't get you because you created an image that everybody,
all the time I see like your Twitter hardly has any followers.
And then I'll see just every 10 minutes, like 300,000 shares, 200,000 shares.
Your stuff is like the most viral thing, but then no one goes back to where it actually comes from
because they clearly have shadow banned you where you can't share on your Twitter and no one sees it.
But it doesn't matter.
Keep people go there to get the seeds.
You see what I'm saying?
Well, I once read something by an editorial page editor, Alex, and he says,
well, people always read the lead editorial first.
No, they look at the cartoon first because a cartoon combines the rational
and irrational and what that does is that provides meaning.
There's a lot of meaning in a cartoon that people can glean.
And it picks up the spirit of the moment.
You're absolutely right.
By the way, go ahead.
It utilizes a point and people are longing for meaning.
And that's why we artists and musicians can be very effective in this battle.
Well, that's it.
I mean, they're looking for the human and nothing like the hand drawn things.
The human that before literature before there was even letters before there were numbers.
There was art.
You're absolutely right.
Cave drawings, Danny.
Great points.
Thank you.
That's not great.
A caller is I got to take more calls are so smart.
Let's go ahead and take another call here.
Let's talk to Caleb.
What's all about life after the Second Amendment?
We talking about North Korea.
Go ahead.
Hey, Alex.
Thanks for having me.
Thanks, Ben.
Basically, I'm kind of where you're talking about, man.
You know, what do we do?
You know, I mean, what's the plan?
Let me ask you this in your gut.
I've never felt not even dread.
Like, I feel like war.
I mean, it's I've never felt like this.
I don't mean like aggressive war.
I mean, I'm like on fire.
Like, like it's it's on like the sword of, you know, goblin cleaver staying.
I mean, I feel it.
Do you feel the evil coming in?
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, like, that's like a thinking that's kind of like South Africa.
You know, it's not so much we want to go in the often, but we want to be prepared like
sidelanders.
You know, I don't know if I said that right, but, you know, what is there anything like
that for us here?
Is it the NRA?
Southlanders.
Yeah, we need civil defense of every race, color and creed.
As Americans, we need to launch a civil, not the militia, even though it's the Constitution,
but civil defense for every race, color and creed that want to defend Americana and capitalism
and realize society is crumbling by design and that those of us that are free market,
that are, we need to come together.
That's a great point, Ben Garrison.
It's to a point, Alex, where we just have to put our foot down.
They're not getting my guns.
They're just not.
I mean, you know, I'm an old guy and I got nothing to lose.
And so what do you make of all the people at the march and the sheriffs and they're going
to kill us?
I mean, they're like, yeah, you're not going to turn it in.
We're going to come kill you.
That's the new thing.
Well, look what happened to one and a half million Armenians when they gave up their
guns to the Turkish government.
They all got wiped out.
Didn't they?
They look at Mexico.
They got some pretty stringent gun control laws down there and they got the highest
gun murder rate in the Western hemisphere.
They did.
Brazil just topped them, but Brazil's about to pass the Second Amendment.
Did you know that?
But compared that to Switzerland, we have one in two people have guns and they got the
lowest gun crime rate there.
I know.
We have the facts.
Caleb, anything else?
Well, yeah.
I mean, I guess that's my question to you, Alex.
I mean, I don't know if that's something that you can find and give us later.
I know you probably need to go to break here soon or something, but where do we go?
You know, I mean, I think it's the problem is we start civil defense.
They infiltrate it with racists or others that discredit it.
I think just everybody with their friends and family and neighbors reaches out.
I think we need to, if you're white, you need to reach out to folks that aren't white.
They need people that aren't white and to reach out to folks that are white.
You know, my office is very diverse.
Liberal media comes here and can't believe it's super more diverse than liberal because
I just hire people that are competent.
I don't care what color you are.
I care what color your blood is as long as it's red and you want freedom.
But I think it comes down to we just all have to gear up and get together and everybody
has to realize we may not beat this.
It may totally implode.
We need to, I think 80% try to fix things, but 20% more and more of my gut is I need to
be digging in for my children because, man, you look at these communists marching around
in George Soros.
I mean, he shouldn't be walking around, man.
A Nazi collaborator and it just makes my head spin.
Ben Garrison is our guest a little bit more.
Paul Watson is coming up.
Fourth hour, more calls straight ahead with Ben Garrison, infowars.com, newswars.com.
Be sure and follow Ben Garrison on Twitter.
Let's go to Debit in Florida.
Debit in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product and I got to say they're amazing.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret
swell, vitamin interfusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you.
You're the type of listener that makes it all possible.
Which pharmaceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible.
I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love you guys.
I love the info wars through and I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity
to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it.
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
That's why the Last Surgeon General's report on oral health warns that your oral health
can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super blue fluoride-free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula.
It's loaded with good halogen iodide, some of the bad halogen fluoride.
Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out
bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in super blue, chosen by our dental experts include xylitol,
peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver and more.
Learn more about infowarslife's super blue toothpaste at infowarslife.com and support
the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Junior Brown and the surf medley, steel guitar.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting in a wide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, when I was 18, you could go down here, Junior Brown, to Continental Club for $2.
Now, of course, he's a big hit in Nashville.
He's one of those guys that's a 30-year overnight success.
He plays surf medley better than anybody.
Ben Garrison's our guest.
I got pretty wound up today on here, and everybody knows that Ben's behind the scenes.
That's not an act with me.
I've studied history, so I know real authoritarianism when I see it.
And I see the globalists that run our country.
I live with Communist China.
They're totally ruthless.
And all of you that are siding with Hollywood, mainstream media, I don't even hate you.
I hate the controllers.
I am frustrated that I'm not smart enough, that's it, to save you.
And I don't mean that as some goody-two-shoes thing, you know, some savior complex.
I mean, I need to save you to get my family out of this.
See, I think of you as myself, because I know we're all interconnected.
And Ben Garrison, top editorial cartoonist in the world.
And it really is true.
You know, you don't want to say that until you realize it.
He's here with us.
And we're taking some phone calls.
Paul Watts is about to take over.
We're going to go to Pennsylvania.
We're going to talk to Holly, who's been holding very patiently about the omnibus.
As Garrison said, he's right.
It's not a budget.
That's for the year.
It's one of 12 bills a year when they combine them for spending.
Everybody got on my ass about it.
I love the audience is so informed.
I said, it's just Holly, you're on the air with Ben Garrison.
Go ahead.
Hi, Ben.
Hi, Allie.
Thanks for taking my call.
Real quick, how about a bumper sticker that says gun free or gun free zones are where the shootings happen?
Well, that's totally true.
I mean, there are some good public schools in this country with some good people at them.
But if they're blue city areas, the police always stand down.
Why would you send your child to the only place they statistically might get killed by a lunatic?
Because the media advertises that's where a lunatic goes.
Ben Garrison.
Yeah, isn't that the case?
You know, I've noticed another thing you mentioned about Hollywood is that you watch these movies and you see them.
If somebody brings out a gun, oh, do you have a permit for that?
And I always think the perfect line is, yes, my permit is a second amendment.
There's nothing.
They demonize these guns.
And boy, you watch Bill Moore.
I watch him every week because I like to see what the enemies are doing.
He's really pushing this idea that gun ownership should be a privilege.
Now, if they ever do that, where they make gun ownership a privilege, you might as well kiss your guns goodbye,
because they'll make the permit process and the testing so elaborate and impossible.
The fees, the fines.
It'll be like New York City.
We're only basically the mafia at the ends of a few thousand habit.
Well, exactly.
I watched Bill Moore two weeks ago when I was in Colorado.
Just happened to catch it.
He's like, it's time to repeal the second amendment.
Well, that's what the Supreme Court Justice came out and said.
I mean, don't they get that we've been warning people forever and they were denying that, Ben?
Well, they keep pushing gradually, but now they seem to be going all out,
which is actually, in a way, it's good, because all that's going to do is tighten.
Our grip on our weapons are going to tighten the more they come out and say that.
And so it's going to be, okay, well, let's get it on then.
Come and try to take them and see what happens.
All right, Ben Garrison, we salute you.
We appreciate you.
People can go to grrgraphics.com.
You're busy.
I'm busy.
We talked a year ago.
I sell some of your books.
I've got a whole plan to fund our operation in yours with limited edition prints.
They're valuable to the audience.
They become collectors.
We need you and I both are so busy, believe me.
We need to get together.
We need to launch a plan and it's non-exclusive.
You can do whatever you want anywhere else.
I want to do a deal with you with your best prints so people can hang these in their shops, their businesses, their churches.
It's absolutely amazing.
So let's get on the phone today or tomorrow.
Let's just have it happen because I don't do it and a year goes by.
And let's do that because we've all got to come together.
The audience wants to support the economy of freedom, support free speech,
and you're one of our leading voices.
So thank you so much.
Thank you.
Alex, can I make a quick shout out to my friend Corey Simpson in Seattle?
He's your biggest fan and he buys all your stuff.
And he's really devoted to you.
So I just have to mention his name.
Absolutely. God bless him.
All right. Let's introduce Paul Watson.
Paul, call straight ahead. Stay with us.
Cardivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids,
the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Resistance to Tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
You can run on for a long time. Run on.
We're back live. Paul Watson's riding shotgun.
I'm getting out of here in a segment. We're taking calls with Paul.
He's got a big guest coming up.
Don't forget, BrainForce Plus is 50% off our best-selling product and free shipping.
You can also get the real red pill. It's got free shipping.
Now, they're both 50% off, but you've got to get them together to get the free shipping.
You can get the real red pill. It's 50% off.
You can get BrainForce with it off, but get them together. Free shipping.
They go together. It takes about seven days for the red pill to kick in.
It takes about 30 minutes for BrainForce to kick in, but that is a huge discount.
InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLife.com, and you absolutely, by the products with us, have changed the whole game.
They're panicking. They don't know what to do.
InfoWarsStore.com. Paul, tell us what you got coming up today, my friend.
We've got roaming millennial coming up at the bottom of the hour, Alex, but before I get into that,
I want to talk about this Second Amendment issue because, you know, they got new polls out today
which show that the lead that Democrats had for the House going into the midterms,
it was 15 points back in October. Everybody's been saying for months,
the Republicans are going to get an absolute shellacking. They're going to lose the House.
Now, the polls say that lead is down to five points almost within the margin of error.
And typically in the past, if Democrats are slightly ahead in the polls, they've lost the House.
So they have to be way ahead to win it.
That's all, Alex, taken place over the last couple of months or so, especially in the last month.
And I think it's related to this Second Amendment issue.
Okay. The march for our lives, as we know, was basically a recruitment voter drive for Democrats.
You know, less than 10% of the attendees were kids.
They're doing it to recruit voters. They don't care about gun violence.
I mean, it would be naive to think that they do. It's all about power. Okay.
So that's why they're doing it.
Again, the Second Amendment issue is so toxic. They're not going to get significant gun control through this year.
Maybe they'll get it next year if they get the House, but they're not going to get it this year.
What single issue, Alex, would get Republicans out to vote in the midterms above all others?
What fear would get them out to vote? Well, it would be the confiscation of their firearms.
This is backfiring. It's backfiring big time, especially now that we see the true face of it.
With this call, you know, you saw the protest signs on Saturday, ban all guns.
We're going to take them from your cold dead hands.
You've got the New York Times editorial today, op-ed, repeal the Second Amendment.
This is going to backfire. This is working in our favor because it might get Republicans out to vote.
It might give them an issue, you know, a point on which to vote, which they don't have right now.
This is going to backfire, and the polls suggest that it already is.
So far from being worried about this, we should be supporting the Parkland students.
We should be encouraging them to continue getting up on national media platforms, calling for all guns to be banned,
doing it in the kind of vulgar language that we've seen from David Hogg recently, because it's not good PR.
It's blowing up in their faces, and the polls are beginning to show that.
Trump approvals up again as well, by the way, on a CNN poll.
So I think we really need to support the Parkland students.
We need to amplify those who are calling for a repeal of the Second Amendment, because tactically, it's going to work in our favor.
Paul, I know Gallup. I know the other major polls generally sample 9 to 15 points more Democrat.
They claim there's more Democrats. That's not really true.
And we saw that during the presidential campaign, and they admitted that it was fake,
and that Trump was actually generally about 5, 10 points ahead.
The problem is, I'm looking at their actions and the way they're behaving.
They know short term this is going to hurt them.
I think they're winding up jihadi attacks.
I think they know about other mental patients that are going to attack.
Broward Cowards stood down. We believe the attack happened, but they stood down.
And I think just like Vegas was tied to jihadis, that's now been confirmed.
And we now have the Pulse Nightclub father and son reportedly being up behind formats.
We first broke that back when it happened.
I think they've got some crazies there watching that they know are getting ready to do something big, that they're going to let attack.
And they've set this precedent saying never again, not one more.
I agree the Stormy Daniels thing about consensual sex 11 years ago and him treating her great.
And then talking about not wearing a condom is so humiliating.
How could you not feel sorry for the president who never claimed he was a goody two shoes?
It's like breaking into somebody's bedroom. It's pure harassment. It's stalking.
So yeah, that's got him even in CNN polls that sample 20 something percent more Democrat.
It's got him up, you know, five, six, seven points.
Same thing with Gallup. Same thing with Mason Dixon.
Same thing with, you know, all of these.
I'm just saying, I don't think we can be too confident though,
because Soros has successfully overthrown dozens of countries, including Ukraine, four years ago.
And they've got a plan. I agree they're arrogant.
Why would you have tar go on, you know, and say we're going to give us an inch will take you a mile?
Why would you have the former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens say repeal the Second Amendment mass gun confiscation?
Why would you have Democrats say we don't care?
Don't turn your guns in. We'll kill you.
I'm going to ask you that question a moment and let you take over with all the great job you're doing.
Paul Watson at prison planted on Twitter, one of the hottest Twitter accounts out there, despite the censorship.
But let's go to tar admitting Saturday their game plan.
There are so very many things, so many steps to take.
Like right now, sign our petition. It takes two seconds and it matters.
We will take the big and we will take the small, but we will keep fighting.
When they give us that inch, that bump stock ban, we will take a mile.
We are not here for breadcrumbs. We are here for real change.
But again, she's up there, the very same group that funded Madonna to be there a year before the Women's March is funding this total astroturf.
They tried to ban us from criticizing him a month ago, saying they were astroturf.
Now it's all admitted, private jets, money, everything, Paul.
What is their ace in the hole?
Or are they just crazy and think they can finally announce we're coming to take your guns?
What type of strategy is that? Because Bill Maher said ban him two weeks ago.
The New York Times said it, CNN.
They're now, as a talking point, saying, fine, we're taking everything.
Do they think psychologically we'll go, okay, just take the semi-autos?
Because we get the formula worldwide from where you live to Australia was to first ban the semi-autos, then ban people up to 21, then register.
We know the formula, Paul.
Well, I've seen other activists, prominent people within this March for Our Lives movement saying to these others who are saying, yeah, let's just take all the guns.
We'll take it from your cold, dead hands. We saw the protest signs as well saying, basically, we're going to do it violently.
They're saying, no, no, what are you doing?
Stop, stop saying that. Stop admitting that this is the true agenda because that's going to cause a massive resentment,
a massive revolt amongst Republicans, and they'll go out and vote in these midterms.
These polls, they've gone from 15 points, Democrats in front.
Everyone's pessimistic. It was a lost cause.
Now it's down to a five-point lead. It's almost within the margin of error.
And it's happened while this gun control narrative has built up.
So you've got people within that movement saying, what on earth are you doing?
Saying, we're going to take all the guns.
Exactly.
If you give us an inch, we'll take a mile. What are you doing?
So I think it's a massive strategic error.
Also, the other factor that I've pointed to is, never in this discussion of, oh, we're going to confiscate all the guns.
We're going to repeal the Second Amendment.
Is the question of what consequences are you going to see if you take 300 million guns from roughly 70 million American gun owners?
Even if Alex, 1% of those people resisted and the media is going to be all like, oh, you're calling for civil war.
We're asking, what will the potential consequences be?
If you have police or whoever, military confiscating millions and millions of guns from people who don't want to give them up.
That question is never asked. It's never part of this narrative.
So that's another issue.
But I think it's a massive strategic error on their part.
We've seen the truth at the teeth of this movement.
I totally agree. So then why is Trump paying lip service and finally starting to go sideways here?
Well, why did he sign the ominous omnibus bill?
It's the same thing. The base needs to hold his feet to the fire.
We've done it before with Syria where that was a mistake and then they backtracked from it.
It hasn't happened since.
So don't give them that inch in the first place.
That's one thing we can do, put pressure on Trump.
Absolutely. Whoever is don't interrupt the enemy when it's making a mistake.
They're making a huge mistake right now.
Let's give them a platform to keep saying the same thing because it's working against their favor politically right now and in the polls.
That's right.
Trump is a populist, a free market classic America, but really kind of a libertarian liberal.
He was anti-war.
He is kind of a liberal, but in a good way.
And so his wife and his daughters are telling him to do the gun control and it's horrible advice, Trump.
It's terrible advice.
All right. I'm sorry the other callers were out of time.
Paul's taken over.
Chris and everybody else, we love you.
Put them all on hold. Give them a free t-shirt.
Whatever they want. They're awesome.
InforwardShore.com.
Great job with the crew, by the way.
The warms coming up in 45 minutes.
But first, Paul Joseph Watson.
Spread the live links right now.
We're changing history.
ID stronghold wallets are different.
They may look the same on the outside.
They're stylish.
They'll hold your cards in cash.
But they're hiding something great on the inside.
No, there are no pyrotechnics.
And it doesn't sing when you open it.
But it does have magical powers.
ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing right next to you.
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID badge.
ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago.
ID strongholds wallets, sleeves and badge holders are trusted by the U.S. military and the executive office of the president.
Something the competitors can't say.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code MAGIC at checkout for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
ID stronghold.com.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from Infowars Life.
The reason Infowars Life has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
I've actually just run out of my superfemale. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the superfemale is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life changing, that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five star rating. It's a win-win InfowarsLife.com.
We're live. It is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones Show on this Tuesday, March 27th edition.
Before I get back into the news, and by the way, we've got a guest coming up at the bottom of the hour.
She is a YouTuber and commentator, roaming millennial to talk about a number of different subjects, so we should have to stay tuned for that.
First, I want to tell you about this great special we have at InfowarsStore.com because we need your support more than ever.
It is Brainforce Plus and the Real Red Pill Mind and Body Challenge Pack for 50% off in store for a limited time only.
This is the powerful combo pack to help you boost your minor body to their limits with the Brainforce Plus and Real Red Pill Minor Body Challenge Pack.
50% off. That is a massive, massive discount. It's got an average 4.7 out of 5 rating.
Because Brainforce is the new Tropic taken by all the WizKids in Silicon Valley to help boost focus and cognitive concentration.
I've taken it. I do take it. It's extremely good. It works. They get very triggered when I talk about it like it's some alien potion that we've got from Mars or whatever.
So this is completely conventional. It's called new tropics. Google it. Everybody in Silicon Valley has taken it. We've got our own special blend that is Brainforce Plus to supercharge your state of mind.
We've combined it with the Real Red Pill which supports healthy aging and cognitive function.
And that is a massive discount. 50% off that combo pack right now for the Real Red Pill and Brainforce. It is the Mind and Body Challenge Pack.
50% off in store at infowallstore.com. Please get it today. Please support this network.
Now we've got about five, six minutes left here. I want to talk about these polls that have come out over the past day or so.
Because as I said when I was on with Alex, the narrative of this gun control issue which of course came to a head with Saturday's March for Our Lives rally,
which was basically a Democratic recruitment voter drive, less than 10% of the attendees were children.
As that's come to the fore, the polls in the House race for the Congress in the midterms have narrowed.
Back in October the Democrats had a 15-point lead. I mean you've been here in this narrative for months. Republicans basically written off the House completely, many of them.
They had a 15-point lead in October. Look what's happened now.
Headline, Republicans gaining ground in midterm election polls. This is out of Breitbart.
Now Fox News did a generic congressional poll again back in October which gave Democrats a 15-point lead.
They were ahead 50 to 35. Now Fox News has done another poll and it gives Democrats only a 5-point lead, 46 to 41.
Now that even takes on even more importance given that Dems being ahead or slightly ahead by four or five points usually translates into Democrats losing the House.
So they have to be massively ahead in history to take the House. In the past several elections, midterm elections, they've been ahead and they've still lost.
If you look at 2014, the Democrats held a two-point lead and Republicans gained 13 seats.
In 2010, Republicans held a four-point lead and picked up a historic 63 seats in the House to retake control of the chamber.
So again, Dems need to be way ahead in these polls for it to translate into capturing the House.
There are only five points ahead. In October, they were 15 points ahead. That has shrunk to five.
Why? I reckon one of the issues is this gun control issue.
I mean, Republicans have basically got no real motivating reason to get out and vote in the midterms in November.
Democrats have got the whole anti-Trump thing. They're trying to make it a referendum on Trump.
That will only go so far, but you saw from the rally, even though they got way less people than expected, they can energize people.
They can get people out politically. It was a huge voter recruitment drive, but this gun control debate is toxic.
It's always proven toxic politically in the past, which is why many Democrats are insisting that it should be dropped as a central campaign issue going into the midterms,
because they're not going to get serious gun control measures through if they don't have the House.
Nothing's going to happen this year. I mean, even after Sandy Hook, gun control laws got weaker, not stronger.
So it's extremely difficult to get them through in any environment.
So a lot of Democrats now, a lot of people within this movement are saying, look, let's not betray our true intentions, which is another thing that they're doing.
They're saying they're coming out and saying with the protest signs, with the, you know, take an inch, they'll give us a mile speech, which we played earlier, ban all the guns.
New York Times op ed today repeal the Second Amendment. They can't help but betray their true motives.
And many on the inside in terms of Democratic Party strategists are saying, what on earth are you doing?
We've seen the anecdotal evidence from gun stores. People buying more AR-15s, people buying more guns.
When Trump got in, gun sales slumped. They plummeted because people thought their rights were not under threat.
Now they think that right is under threat once again, and it could make Republicans come out in significant numbers in November.
So this is a losing issue for Democrats. Why interrupt the enemy when they're making a mistake?
We should be amplifying calls for the Second Amendment to repeal.
We should be supporting the Parkland students and their media crusade against the right to bear arms because it's a colossal election mistake.
And these polls are starting to prove that true.
Again, 15 points ahead back in October, that lead according to the latest Fox News poll for the House in the midterm election has narrowed to just five points off of the back of a solid month of gun control narrative from the media.
If Republicans think there's any chance that Democrats will capture the House, which obviously there's a big chance they will, but that they will pass significant gun control measures,
that is a rallying issue, that is a rallying cause to get them out to vote in November for the midterms.
So this is a huge, huge positive.
If you're talking about the Republicans holding the House, if you're talking about the Democrats being unable to launch impeachment proceedings against Donald Trump,
which they obviously will do, or they'll at least try to, if they capture the House.
So again, don't argue with these Parkland students, support them, talk to them, give them, amplify their message because it's making the colossal mistake.
I mean, even the kind of vulgar language that you saw from David Hogg over the past week or so, that's starting to turn people against this, even more so.
And again, just the optics, this is something that Mike Senevich was talking about earlier on his show.
The optics of arguing with teenagers never looks good.
Don't argue with them.
Don't try and drag them down.
Support them because the message that they're broadcasting is so divisive that it's going to rally Republicans to get out and vote in November.
Another headline, CNN poll, Trump approval at 42% up seven since February.
So even in CNN's skewed poll, he's at 42%.
He's up seven points since basically this whole gun control narrative started last month in February.
I don't think that's the coincidence that his approval rating, even in CNN's poll, is up 7%.
There's another poll.
More Americans than ever see media as enemy of Trump.
More Americans think that the media is trying to derail Trump's agenda now compared to this time last year.
So all these polls are going in Trump's favor.
It's no coincidence that it's happened since this gun control narrative has started.
And this could be a huge rallying point to get Republicans out to make them vote in November.
Don't interrupt the enemy when they're making a mistake.
We'll be back with Roaming Bullennial. This is the Alex Jones show live fourth hour.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos on the market at Slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Call the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
VITAMIN MENERAL FUSION
VITAMIN MENERAL FUSION
VITAMIN MENERAL FUSION
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research.
A fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle,
two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it,
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Frankly, I just went off what I saw of medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules,
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
News, analysis, reports, it's the Alex Jones Show, and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
We're live. It is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones Show,
and I'm delighted to be joined by my guest.
She is known as Roaming Millennial.
She is a YouTuber and host over at CRTV.
You can find her on Twitter at RoamingMill.
Roaming, welcome.
Hi, thanks for having me.
Now, I want to get into gun control, because we were talking about it.
I was talking about it with Alex before the break.
This March for our Lives event over the weekend,
obviously a big voter recruitment drive for Democrats,
you know, less than 10% of the attendees are actually children.
But we've seen polls over the past 48 hours,
which show this lead in terms of the House race for Congress in the midterms,
has narrowed to the point where the Democrats had a 15-point lead back in October
with a 5-point lead now.
I think this is going to backfire spectacularly this gun control narrative,
because it might force Republicans to rally and to get out and vote in the midterms,
whereas before they had no real reason to do so.
Obviously, the Democrats have this big anti-Trump narrative.
That's their entire, they basically got no policy platform,
but they're trying to make it a referendum against Trump.
They're active. They've got people out.
The Republicans don't really have that energy.
They don't really have that momentum.
But I think they're going to get it out of this insane crusade against the Second Amendment.
Now we have the New York Times op-ed, repeal the Second Amendment.
We got the protest signs, you know, at the event, ban all guns.
I think this is going to backfire massively against Democrats
if they continue to follow this narrative over the course of the next six, seven months, do you agree?
I completely agree.
And if you just look at what we saw happen after the CNN Town Hall event with Dana Lash,
her getting berated, same thing with Marco Rubio,
we've seen an increase, an exponential soar in the amount of people just Googling how to join the NRA,
how to support the NRA.
And you have people like me who have always been pro-Second Amendment,
but have never really, I guess, taken this as one of their most important or most passionate issues.
I joined the NRA after that interview thing,
because I just felt that I had no idea how anti-Second Amendment a lot of people were.
And I think there's tons of people out there who are feeling the same way right now.
Every time Democrats push for more gun control legislation,
we see there's a rise in people buying guns,
because there actually is, I think, a legitimate fear among a lot of people
that this is going to lead to more bans on things like AR-15s,
the boogeyman that actually is no different than a lot of other regular rifles
that, I guess, look less scary. But I think it is a dangerous thing for people on the left to be doing right now,
because gun owners are some of the most galvanized, most passionate voters in the U.S.,
so trying to target them so fiercely and trying to, I guess, demonize an organization
that has around five million members in it is just not a good idea.
Yeah, and it's like don't interrupt the enemy when they're making a mistake.
It's like, I've just said before the break, we should be supporting the Parkland students.
We should be amplifying their voice when they get up and say ban old guns.
You probably saw the speech from one of them where she said,
we'll take an inch, then we'll take a mile regarding the bump stock ban.
They're openly coming out and now saying, yes, of course the true agenda is to confiscate your guns,
is to repeal the Second Amendment. I wouldn't interrupt them when they're making that mistake.
Also, Sernovich made this point earlier, don't argue with teenagers.
It's like it's really bad optics to be arguing and pestering teenagers constantly.
I think we should support them. I think that it's backfiring massively
and whereas conservative Republicans were so pessimistic about losing the House just a few months back,
these polls show it's narrowing. It's narrowing to probably within the margin of error.
This is massive. I think this is a massive strategic error on their part
and I don't think we should interrupt them in doing it.
The other angle which I'll throw to you on is within this narrative of gun confiscation,
we've got the New York Times op-ed today,
never do they talk about the consequences of the final solution of enacting gun confiscation.
We've got 70 million American gun owners who own around 300 million guns.
What might the consequences be if just 1% of those gun owners resist giving up their weapons?
That's never part of the conversation, is it?
Well, I think exactly and you always hear these protesters who are so passionate about,
we'll take it from your cold dead hands fine and we've actually seen people with those sorts of signs
at the March for Our Lives rally. I don't know how they think they're going to do that.
You have these group of people who are by nature ideologically opposed to gun ownership
trying to say that they're coming after the gun owners.
With what? With super citizen voting power? That's just not going to work.
I think as many people as you do in the United States who are so fiercely protective of their right to self-defense
and you have these people saying these things like banal guns, repeal the Second Amendment,
we need to try mandatory confiscation procedures.
I think that's just going to scare a lot of people and it's going to make gun sales go up
and I think we are seeing Republicans being galvanized around this issue
and it's too bad because I think at the end of the day they've really politicized this tragedy,
this Parkland shooting tragedy which I think has really highlighted a lot of faults in law enforcement.
We have these sheriff's office that ignored different calls, did nothing when they knew this person was a threat.
We have the FBI who is ignoring tips, several tips about a possible shooter. They do nothing.
There are actual real policy problems that have been highlighted in this terrible shooting
and instead of focusing on those and the solutions that may actually be able to prevent things like this happening
in the future, they've turned the entire NRA into this boogeyman which is an unrelated topic.
It's not going to help prevent things like this in the future
and I think it's just an obfuscation of the actual problems.
Well, exactly. I mean, David Hogg may yet, probably already is, the gun salesman of the year.
As he said, the anecdotal evidence AR-15 is flying off the shelves.
The Google searches right after the March for Life were by AR-15, that spiked, NRA membership, that spiked.
So it is a rallying point for Republicans which may not have existed before this whole narrative began last month after the Parkland shooting.
But switching gears, you made a video about fat shaming which is one of my favorite topics
because this whole fat pride movement really gets to the core of how personal responsibility in our culture is being completely eviscerated.
There was a comedian, there was a rotund comedian by the name of Sophie Hagen who got angry, a cancer charity,
for pointing out that obesity is the second biggest cause of cancer. Just explain what happened with that.
Right. So Sophie Hagen, whose Twitter account is just a treasure trove of lulls,
she had a real issue with this cancer research charity who does nothing except try to raise awareness for public health concerns.
Just trying to let people know that, hey, obesity, I think it's the second largest contributor of preventable cancers after smoking.
Right. This is a serious public health concern and especially if you're living in somewhere like the UK or Canada,
this is actually an issue that taxpayers need to be aware of because guess what, when these people have these health related issues,
we're all paying for it. Right. I mean, it's everybody's burden at that point.
And for some reason, for this activist, she took that as a personal slight against fat people.
I think she actually tried to insinuate that the cancer research society trying to raise awareness about obesity related cancers
is more damaging than the actual obesity related cancers.
Oh, no. I've got the quote here. This is what she said.
She's viewing fatness as a negative thing kills more people and obesity related diseases. That's literally what she tweeted.
Okay, it doesn't. So 2 billion people worldwide suffer health problems from just being overweight, not even obesity.
You've got 4 million people a year dying due to illnesses related to being overweight. It's doubled.
Obesity has doubled since 1980. Obviously, that's complete BS.
So how helpful is it to women, given that this is now basically a feminist movement to encourage them to follow a lifestyle that literally kills them?
It's not helpful at all. And I'm really having a hard time understanding why this has become a feminist issue,
why this is something that social justice has taken arms about.
And I think it all stems from the fact that these women are insecure about themselves, right?
And they want to feel beautiful. And part of the authoritarian feminist, I guess, marching style
is to take your feelings and mandate them onto other people, right?
So now you have to say that fatness is beautiful. You can't tell us that it's unhealthy
because we want to feel good about ourselves and all of those facts. It's just there. It's uncomfortable to hear.
I think that's the only reason why this is being talked about.
Okay, we're heading into a break. We will be back with Roaming Millennial on the other side. This is the Alex Jones Show Live.
Don't go away. We'll be back.
Thanks for watching.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at m4store.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
If we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Welcome to the Alex Jones Show and now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
We are back and we are joined by Roaming Millennial. You can find her on YouTube by simply searching for Roaming Millennial.
She's got a big YouTube channel. She's also a host with CRTV.
Roaming, obviously, your demographic on YouTube is, I presume, quite young. Mine is concentrated in the age range between 18 and 35.
Now, you contrast that with Fox News, whose average, medium-time, prime-time viewer is 68 years old.
They're literally dying out not to rag on the elderly, but their audience is literally dying out.
But, you know, I've never been invited ever, ever to appear on any Fox News show, any Fox Business show or whatever.
You know, the left, as we talked about earlier, recruits people through exploiting tragedies, especially young people, with this whole March for Life thing.
Don't you think it's time? Don't you think it's way overdue that establishment conservatives, specifically media outlets, need to reach out and energize their political brand by attracting a younger audience?
Because it's just not happening right now.
Absolutely. I think there's been a real problem with the conservative movement for the past 30, 40 years in that they have the worst branding.
They have terrible outreach, right? And I think the reason why the left is so popular among young people right now in mainstream culture is not because their ideas are better.
It's not because their policies bring more improvements to people's lives. It's because they're flashier, right?
They're more attractive. They're more charismatic looking. They seem more compassionate. All these good things that young people want to see, the left is great at packaging their ideas like that.
And I think that's what conservatives need to get a whole lot better at.
And when I look at places like Fox News, you know, I enjoy watching Fox News, but I do wish that they had more of an effort to reach younger viewers, right?
I mean, we have entire networks that were originally dedicated to youth entertainment like MTV.
Now, essentially, they've become these giant propaganda mills, right? And I just agree with that. But at the same time, it's dang effective.
And we just don't see conservatives putting that amount of effort into connecting to young people, which is too bad.
And yeah, I mean, you have it to a certain extent on YouTube, which is why I joked to the New York Times last year, YouTube is a right-wing safe space.
Obviously, they've still got things like the Young Turks. They've got the comedy shows.
But in terms of individual personalities, the right, or you could call it the centrist crowd, really do dominate on YouTube to a great extent.
And that's why they're so paranoid about YouTube from my perspective.
But again, in terms of, you know, that establishment Fox News style brand, there's just no, there's no outreach effort, which is the way I see it, which is going to cost them, given how the demographics are going.
But I want to switch gears. We've got about seven minutes left. Have you got something to add to that?
Well, what I would like to see going forward is just to see a greater, I guess, partnership between these establishment Republican or establishment conservative outlets and the new younger generation of conservative commentators and activists, right?
Because I think at the end of the day, we may be ideologically aligned, but our demographics are very different and we need to sort of consolidate people together into kind of pursuing things that are universally conservative, right?
That's how we get measures actually changed and policies actually implemented. People actually elected is that we all need to kind of get on the same page in terms of like what politicians we want to see, what kind of policies conservatives want to focus on.
And I think there needs to be, I guess, the sort of coalescence among conservatives like that.
Exactly. And this is where the energy is. There's no energy in national review online anymore. It's a dead duck. I mean, they need to get over it and move on.
It's quite ridiculous that the whole CPAC crowd and all that, you know, they get so triggered by anyone who complains about a potential speaker or a potential guest.
They cancel them imminently. I mean, they're so paranoid. They're so precious. They need to get over themselves.
Let's move on though. You made a video about the alt-right. In fact, there's a meme, which I posted today, which you featured in your alt-right video, which shows the alt-right and social justice warriors and how their beliefs are basically the same,
or at least a mirror image of each other, you know, when it comes to race, segregation, views on society. And I've made this point many times.
I'll flash that meme up when this goes up on YouTube. The alt-right and the far left, they need each other. The mainstream media needs the alt-right because they use it as a bogeyman to smear ordinary conservatives.
And, you know, you look at the alt-right's presence on YouTube in physical real life. You know, there are more cameras at a Richard Spencer event than actual attendees.
The YouTube presence is pathetic in comparison to people like you and more centuries libertarian types. It's not even there. It's barely there. It's pathetic.
You know, I make videos attacking the alt-right. The alt-right hates me. They hate you, obviously, because a lot of them are brilliant racists.
You have the right-wing watch attack on you. Even though they attack you, they hate you, you attack them. Still, it was what was it?
White supremacy figured out how to become YouTube famous.
Right, nice picture of me there.
This media environment where we can bash the alt-right all day. I can literally put it in my profile, anti-alt-right.
They hate me. I attack them, and yet still, we're both alt-right. Isn't that an interesting alliance between the far left and the mainstream media when it comes to the alt-right?
Absolutely. Like you said, they do need each other. They feed off of each other, and I think when it comes to the mainstream media's understanding of the alt-right, they don't actually know what the alt-right is.
They just kind of see the alt-right as any racist boogeyman, right?
So it doesn't matter that you and I speak out against the alt-right are very ideologically different than the alt-right because we're not a fan of social justice or their own form of identity race-based politics.
We're there for alt-right, and it's funny because I think if they actually understood what the alt-right believes when it comes to their racial identitarianism and racial tribalism,
they would actually see that, oh, hang on a second, they're exactly like Black Lives Matter but for white people.
And I think that might be sort of an interesting little bit of cognitive dissonance for them if the time ever did come.
But you're right, these two groups, if they weren't around making waves at each other, they eventually would disappear because they'd have nothing to complain about.
And I mean, that's the point, whenever I get called alt-right in the media, so yeah, you don't know what the alt-right is, do you?
It's not anyone who disagrees with you, okay? It's a very specific subsection of people whose views are completely abhorrent and you know where to find them on certain websites,
which is the complete opposite of everyone else, but they lump us in, it's useful tool to smear more mainstream conservatives with, which is why they do it,
which is why the mainstream loves the alt-right and the alt-right loves the mainstream because they wouldn't otherwise have an audience.
But we've got a few minutes left with roaming millennial social media censorship.
Obviously, we've seen this Facebook algorithm change broadly affecting conservatives more than left-wing websites.
We've seen YouTube targeting political content. Has this impacted you at all in terms of your YouTube output?
Well, I mean, definitely I've had issues with demonetization. I've even had, I've had to appeal them and I've gotten actually, I have gotten some approved,
but I think that's been going on for a long time, but regarding this Facebook thing, I actually just got off a call with one of the people at CRTV saying that we're going to need to,
I guess, reevaluate how we do things because the sad fact of the matter is Facebook is targeting, like any call to action where you might want to direct someone to a third party site
or article where there's more conservative content, they're actually cracking down on that and they're not favoring that anymore.
So it is hard and we're going to need to adapt. And I always struggle with, is it just worth leaving it?
Because I mean, I'm personally not on Facebook, my show at the Facebook page, but I'm not on Facebook.
I mean, I am on YouTube and they have their own leftist policies and it's hard because on the one hand, I don't want to support these companies.
I don't agree with what they're doing, but on the other, this is where the eyes are, right? This is where the viewership is.
So I mean, right now I kind of see these companies as this necessary evil if I want to actually connect with people and be able to have this discussion on a large platform.
But long term, I'm hoping that alternatives arise where we were able to just leave these guys behind.
Well, I mean, my attitude is just ride it until the wheels fall off and, you know, they are starting to fall off.
You know, I got a Facebook video, for example, I was getting more views on those videos than the ones on YouTube.
As of this algorithm change, that's been slightly amended.
So we'll see how that goes. But that is the main threat in terms of censorship from my perspective.
It's not outright bans. It's them tweaking the algorithm in the background.
So suddenly your audience dwindles away and you can't really prove that they've done anything.
I think that's the main threat going forward.
But in the final minute, roaming millennial, yeah, you want to add to that? Go ahead.
Well, I mean, it's essentially a shadow band, right?
So you have all these conservative channels who maybe are thinking is my audience just not interested in what but actually it's
they're not even being notified of your videos. They're not showing up on your feed.
It's actually a pretty smart way of doing things.
You can ban people without actually having to ban them and they don't know.
Exactly. Now we've got about a minute left.
Tell people where they can find you on Twitter and YouTube and your plans going forward.
Sure. So you can find me on YouTube at youtube.com.
You can also find me on Twitter at roaming mill.
I pretty much live on Twitter.
So definitely check me out there to stay updated with what I'm doing.
And I'm at I'm on CRTV at CRTV.com forward slash roaming.
We got three episodes of Uncensored a week and going forward,
I will be speaking in Arizona on the 21st of April.
So if you're in the area, be sure to come say hi.
Okay, there it goes, roaming millennial.
Be sure to check her out.
She's got a fabulous YouTube channel. Check it out today, roaming.
Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.
Thanks.
There she goes. And we have about 45 seconds left.
So I'm going to tell you about this top story up on infowars.com.
Germany.
ISIS beheading videos spreading like wildfire amongst migrants in schools.
This is the president of Germany's teachers association,
warning about ISIS propaganda,
warning about attacks on female teachers,
warning about attacks on Jewish students.
In these migrant dominated schools,
the situation he thinks is getting out of control.
We're going to have another huge story about that tomorrow.
But again, massive problems with the integration or nonintegration of migrants in Germany,
spreading throughout Europe.
I was going to wrap it up for this show, but war room is coming up.
Don't go away.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back.
It's Michael ZX plus lower price,
more ingredients because we scaled up.
Sign to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer scalability.
But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39 50% off.
There's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, Michael ZX.
Now it's the other side of the equation.
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut
because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides,
but more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help this place.
Yeast mold creates slime walls.
And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there,
it causes all sorts of psoriasis.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it
and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Michael ZX plus now from the Info Wars store.
I'm going to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us so we need your support.
