Ladies and gentlemen, we are live broadcasting Worldwide Sunday, the 25th day of March, 2018.
Owen Schroyer's here with me.
We're ready to kick some globalists, but he was downtown in Austin, facing the cult
like marchers chanting, we have the power, we will ban your guns.
It's on video.
It's all coming up.
Hey, here's the news.
They're trying to act all powerful and saying, we're shaking in our boots.
No.
This is why the libertarians, the pro-humans, the populist are awaiting the globalists,
and they may have a bunch of Department of Education brainwashed people out there marching
paid for by Soros, but the sleeping giant is awake.
Here's John Bown reporting first.
What separates mainstream media from blatant propaganda?
800 marches are planned for Saturday, from Bismarck to Salt Lake City, Memphis to Springfield
Virginia, and everywhere in between, children now taking on a very adult topic, politics,
and hoping they can teach the grown-ups a lesson.
The lopsided coverage of the March for Life was anything but objective, but don't take
my word for it.
Here's Gunn Grabber and Chief Senator Dianne Feinstein from California with more.
Let's bring in a prominent member of the United States, Senator Dianne Feinstein of
California, she's in San Francisco right now, Dianne, thank you for joining us.
What's it like out there today?
It's wild here in Washington.
Well, it's the first day of spring.
People are here.
And we have a Democrat, Dan Amaze, George Soros pays for the buses.
People to know is that we have introduced an assault weapons ban.
My office wrote it, but we have 30 co-sponsors.
It's in the judiciary.
They go, people hate us, well let's fund a couple million kids, force out of school
to come do this, pay for their hotels, everything, and they'll make us look young.
We don't have a single republic.
And you've got to get the military weapon off of the streets and out of the schools
and out of circulation.
I deeply believe that.
Out of the victim's arm and son's.
Even the presentation during the March for Life rally in Washington, D.C. subjected
the participants with no-thigh-enemy-style expositions.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
Hitler took the guns.
Stalin took the guns.
If you try to take our firearms, it doesn't matter how many lemmings you get out there
on the street, begging for them to have their guns taken, we will not relinquish them.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their
narrative over and over again.
What matters is who the enemy is.
They're the no-gun people, period.
Listen up, you might have met our fresh-faced flower child, President, we need Ivy League
friends.
The only truly free people who have ever walked this earth have been armed people.
This is too powerful, I'm going to play this coming up.
They're jumping the shark here.
They force buss, a bunch of these brain dead, you know, democratic party children, and they
show them us saying we'll never turn it in, and they got hogged up there with an armband
and they rest up and go, and we're going to take you on, you're going to lose.
You're trying to launch like a malice army, this is going to completely blow up in their
face, Owen.
I don't think Soros and all the doddering Hollywood people get that yet, I'm just looking
at this and my gut tells me this ain't going to fly, this dog ain't going to hunt.
They do seem to be losing their sense of reality as far as what the average individual is thinking,
but Alex, if 25% of these young students that they're trying to brainwash right now, if
just 25% of them are like me and when they reach the age about 23, they fight the brainwashing,
they recognize the brainwashing by researching, and they realize more kids die every week
in pools that die all year from mass shooting, over 50 kids die a week grounding, it's only
50 something in mass shootings, that's still terrible.
I mean, this is like one of the rarest things, but it's game over for them, it's game over
for them because a lot of these children, a lot of this youth is going to wake up and
they're going to change their political views, that's just what you expect, the average person
changes their political views.
I was just at six flags, I was just at six flags yesterday and today with my daughters
and five of their friends.
I had Hispanic, black, old, young, I got mobbed at the hotel, mobbed at six flags, I shot
video, we're going to have some tomorrow, no one disagreed, it was incredible, they were
all, they were like, we've broken the conditioning, we understand, we know it's really rare to
get shot, we know they want our guns, we know they're globalist, we know it's Soros, and
it was just like high five, high five, yeah, we're winning.
So people love you Alex, you need to go out more.
No, no, they love you, and the thing is they love freedom, they love freedom, and that's
why they're announcing on MSNBC, surrender we've won, surrender we've won.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut, digestive enzyme production declines as we age, carnivore is filled with
digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body, enjoy the full potential of protein
rich foods again, you can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion
and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets, just one pill with every high
protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building
blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you
can fully digest all types of meals, don't let a meal go to waste, use carnivore by InfoWars
Life, head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now, that's infowarslife.com.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
And Owen Troyer, I'm not going to host the second hour, I've got a bunch of girls that
are visiting with my daughters, I've got to deliver home by 6 or 7 o'clock, but you're
going to be hosting the first hour here, I just went down to Six Flags down to San Antonio
Fiesta, Texas, got mobbed by Americans of every race, color, and creed, who are all the human
race, that are awake, and all of them were like, Alex, we're not turning our guns in,
we know it's Soros, we know it's the globalist, we understand it's a takeover, we understand
Trump's trying to turn the economy back on, it was amazing, but Owen, the bizarre article,
well it's bizarre images put out by Hog on infowars.com, where Hog now wears a purple
armband like the Nazis, and he's there saying, old people are effing bad, we're going to
get them, and then YouTube bans the video for bullying when it's David Hog saying, he's
this huge public figure, force fed on every TV in the U.S. at the Soros funded marches,
but then if we talk about the four students out of 3,000 that are anti-gun at that school,
the others get banned from CNN, banned from this NBC, they say they've been banned, CNN's
been caught having fake town halls, if we point out that Soros and the Democrats are
funding this, which they admit they're doing, they lie and say that we're saying no shooting
happened, or they're crisis actors, and literally thousands of articles a week saying ban infowars,
this is an attack on the First Amendment as well, this is their biggest assault, I wrote
some headlines for the live feeds on the internet today, Facebook's headline, biggest offensive
in history, launched against the First and Second Amendment, live coverage of Soros anti-gun
marches, he is admittedly, the women's marches, the group funding it, he funds 92% according
to federal election commission numbers of that, so 90 plus percent of this is funded
by him, periscope, Democrats openly chant, it must have typoed there, Democrats openly
change, it's chant, we have the power, we will get the guns at rallies nationwide, Democrats
openly chant, we have the power, we will ban the guns, we will ban the guns at rallies
nationwide, and tonight, Stormy's 60 minutes set for Trump sex, Democrats announced revolution
against the Second Amendment, this is how massive the point in history we are right
now.
No, it's crazy that you have mainstream news, what was once a very highly respected program,
60 minutes now bringing on porn stars that are basically just promoting themselves, CNN
doing the same thing, when nobody really cares about that, if you want to upset Trump's
base, if they were smart, they'd be attacking the latest budget, but they're not even smart.
Back to David Hogg, I don't know what his motivation is, Alex, I don't know if he-
That's the high school senior that calls me a piece of crap in all these names, and YouTube
bans, any videos that criticize me, including videos of him flipping out saying old people
are pieces of crap.
But that's a typical view when you kind of reach that age, I mean, when you reach a certain
age, you start to resent older people, you start to resent authority, you start to resent
the establishment, and you kind of form your own way of rebelling, and David Hogg, I don't
know if that's his motivation, if he's really organic, or if he's being spoon fed these
lines by the Democrat Party, or his FBI father, or CNN mother, or whatever, but the average
high school that feels that way changes their mind by the time they're 22.
And so they think that they can get these people to have a concrete view against guns,
a concrete view against America, but it's gonna change, Alex, they're gonna experience
things, they're gonna-
But studies show most generation Z are libertarian or conservative now, because almost all their
teachers, almost all their professors are beating them over the head with globalist
ideology.
So that's the next wave.
So the wave of David Hogg is like their final wave of the establishment was the NRA, the
establishment was the conservatives, and so the establishment's Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan,
George Soros, the globalists that have taken the guns, here's the big news, everywhere they
follow this, let's be reasonable, and then they ban everything, and then you have authoritarianism.
They want the guns, there's only a few countries that have the guns.
Well, and if you look at the guns that, the countries that have the strictest gun laws
like Mexico, Brazil, there's obviously high level of crime, especially violent crime,
with guns, but they don't wanna, they don't wanna talk about that.
They, I think that they really, Alex, they have to throw the whole kitchen sink against
the wall right now.
And we were upset, you know, because we're sick of the Republicans, I mean, the Democrats
and the Republicans, it's the same thing.
I mean, that got proven again with this budget.
It got proven again when the Republicans let-
And they go, oh, a budget's not an omnibus.
Yes, it's one of the 12 spending bills of the year that combines two of the monthly
spending bills together.
It's part of the funding of the country.
People wanna play semantical games.
The point is, is we're not happy Trump did this.
He isn't a dictator.
He doesn't control Congress.
The issue is the Democrats frothing, funded by foreign money, hell-bent, destroy this
American Revolution to make this country great again.
If David Hogg is truly an intellectual, if David Hogg is truly somebody that can read
and discern things, by the time he's 25 years old, he'll completely change all of his stances.
That's the, that is what the-
But it won't matter now, if you look at his extreme power trip and how he calls me a piece
of SH, you know what, he calls me all these things, and then I just respond nicely.
He challenges me to a debate.
He backs out.
He's scared.
The media then says, Jones harasses him, asking for a debate when it's Hogg's own tweets
and his own statements.
So, this is a protected person from the beginning, who is allowed, because he's anti-America,
anti-gun, to go out and say whatever he wants, and as a public figure now, YouTube, Facebook
and Twitter ban you if you criticize someone speaking in front of 300,000 people shipped
in by George Soros, with all the Hollywood losers brought in that nobody listens to,
nobody cares.
No older person, no middle-aged person, no even millennial, I know, lacks Hollywood.
It's the most uncool thing.
So, they just bring in a bunch of people on buses, paid to be there as a prop for a bunch
of old Hollywood people and people like George Soros and Hillary Clinton to try to look cool
and look young.
And then coming up, we've got all the footage shot by Jack Mesobot of hundreds of buses
coming in, but that's all admitted.
The Democrats are funding this, but just a month ago, the Democrats admitted they were
funding it, but if I covered it, they would ban us and kick us off YouTube.
Again, they don't want you to know this is synthetic.
Well, and then we're going to have highlights from the march in Austin as well and the craziness
that was down there.
But you know what, here's what David Hogg has actually done, and this is kind of a signal
out to our audience that is millions and millions of people.
God, look at those hundreds of buses.
All you have to do to...
Think of the money.
Where does it come from?
They pay for five of those.
It's ridiculous.
Soros spent $287 million on the women's march.
The day after the inauguration, they wouldn't let us get in to see Trump.
We didn't block them.
$280 plus million on one march in DC.
And then I have them on tape admitting that the organizers of these marches tell the protestors
not to talk to inforters.
We have it on tape.
We'll play the tape later.
But all you need right now, because none of them have any ideas.
They just go, I'm paying $100 to be here.
There's a void right now, Alex.
And David Hogg can easily be defeated.
All we need is to find a high school student that's a conservative, that's actually good-looking,
and be like...
I was in a car with six girls today, couple of my daughters, others nine, who were all
way more well-spoken than Hogg.
They were saying everything about guns don't kill...
People don't kill people, blah, blah, blah.
It was all this...
I mean, they were laying it all out about statistically guns hardly kill anybody, and
how it's criminal, insane people that kill people, not guns, and all the facts laying
it all out, how their school force feeds them this, but then their parents won't let them
go on air.
But it's simple.
A conservative that's...
You want to defeat a chicken neck Nelly?
You just present somebody that's an alpha male.
That's all you do?
What do you think the youth is going to do?
Pick some chicken neck, no-chin, screwball, or pick some guy who's the captain of the
football team, muscly, hangs out with the kid.
And the problem is...
Popular at school.
The problem is no one who's a libertarian or a conservative or a pro-free market that
made this country so great speaks out.
They just sit there and watch Hollywood and all this garbage.
That's the void that could be filled.
I'm telling you, if one quarterback, one captain of the football squad that was beloved by the
whole school, beloved by the whole community, hard worker, straight A's, all this stuff
came forward, started a YouTube channel, well, listen viral, it'd be game over.
They kicked the kids out of class or out of school that try to have a pro-life of pro-gun
march.
This is authoritarianism.
This is peer pressure.
This is criminal.
Yeah, and now we have the tapes of that.
And you've also got teachers getting put on leave, suspended if they don't want to go
along with the brainwash.
But doesn't it just show you everything that you've said, Alex?
Higher education, public schools are not education anymore.
What happens is you pay to send your children to get a worthless education and be indoctrinated
by the losers that the system picked and got because they'll follow orders and pump a script
into your children's brains that destroys their minds.
And that's what this is because, again, less than 50 kids a year die in mass shootings,
that much die every month in pool accidents, nobody's saying, keep us safe, not one more
death in pools, ban pools.
But that's this nanny, well, it is true, a lot of the hotels now have two foot deep
pools, so nobody drowns.
This nanny state is about domestication and total control, but America's awake, it's
not going to work.
A bunch of clips coming up.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States, with
the latest cutting edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat
and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance, but all of
these are the very cutting edge, top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an
extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it and then for store.com, you know, you are also financing the attack
on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Friends of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Get on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers.
Go to infowarstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire
meals.
Woo!
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infowarstore.com.
Let's go to Debit in Florida.
Debit in Florida, you're on the air.
Great.
Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing.
Thank you.
You're on the fence by it because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret swell,
vitamin, mineral fusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you.
You're the top of the list that makes it all possible.
Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible, like I haven't felt
sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys, I love the info wars crew and I just want
to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
We'll love it.
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
So win, win at infowarslife.com.
That's right, no insurer here riding shotgun with me.
So we're seeing synthetic politics.
We're seeing foreign multinational money, George Soros money, it's on record.
The women's march is what's funding the school walkouts, what's funding all this.
They went beta tested, they had a stand down in Florida, the sheriff's department stood
down, a mentally ill person wasn't supposed to have guns, was allowed to have guns, just
like the Texas shooting last year.
It rolls forward that all gun owners are to blame, that out of 3,000 students, many of
them pro-gun, they picked David Hogg and a few others who were in the acting department,
his parents are Democrats, FBI, anti-gun, not saying it didn't happen, not saying they're
fake, we're saying it's scripted and funded by the Democrats, this whole demonization
of the Second Amendment.
And then he comes out and he says, the power structure is shaking right now, and he even
wears an armband now in these weird photo montages, we've got on infowars.com, it is
completely fascistic, again, Hollywood, desperate to maintain control of America, now pushing
these whole narratives that gun owners are to blame, and that we have to all be dealt
with, and he says, we call BS, he wears this arrogant pin, well I call BS with 50 people
down here in mass shootings, thousands and thousands in backyard pools, one of the rarest
forms of death is a mass shooting, I call BS on Mexico banning all the guns, having
one of the highest crime rates in the world, or Brazil, the highest crime rate in the world,
now trying to pass the Second Amendment.
I call BS on Shroyer, but here is the cringe-worthy, David Hogg, the man out of 2,000 plus other
students, you don't hear from them, they have articles on infowars where they've been banned
from the news, but you hear from him and you're not supposed to criticize him, you're supposed
to have him point his finger and others at Daniel Loche and others and say, you're a
murderer, you're a criminal, you need to be shut down, and free species need to be shut
down, and then in D.C., you need to turn in your guns because it's your fault what somebody
else did.
Now there's the article, liberal media centers pro second amendment teen, that's up on infowars.com
right now from newsbusters, but let's go to this cringe-worthy David Hogg.
You can hear the people in power shaking, they've gotten used to being protective of their
position, the safety of inaction, inaction is no longer safe, and to that we say no more.
You see those giant hordes of welfare queens and EBT card controllers and socialist professors
and everybody else, and you look at them, they all look victimized, they all look mentally
ill, there's something wrong with them, they all look really scared, they're freaked out,
they help some big government techs care of them, every time they get control, Venezuela,
Cuba, North Korea, communist China, they're the fools that open the door to all of this,
and once they get our guns in every case, they then organize like lemmings, oceans of
these people to take over the farms, the factories, the businesses, because they see us the productive,
the hardworking as the food, and the big mega-rich up above it, the Bezosas, the George Sorosas,
the Apple owners that are all tax exempt and have hundreds of billions of dollars apiece,
they always ought to organize the giant unwashed mass, pressure from above and below, to annihilate
the middle class.
There's not many middle classes left, they got rid of them in Argentina and Venezuela,
they got rid of them in Russia, and now they are coming with the big corporate dying media
trying to organize children after sabotaging their minds and using the death of 15 students
to project it onto everybody else and say, they're your enemy, go out and get them, get
their guns, but the National Guard with guns was protecting that event, Owen.
Well, let's be very clear, just to expand on what you're saying and to give it a little
background, if you don't think for one second that the Democrat Party, which is the Republican
Party, but specifically the Democrat Party wouldn't gladly let people die for their
political agenda, I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to do a little research and find out
you're wrong.
They funded the Arab Spring, they killed millions of people.
Party the KKK, funded the Arab Spring, Hillary brags about what happened in Libya, now there's
people enslaved.
How about the Project Veritas video that exposes Aaron Black funded by the DNC to go to Chicago
and start a riot where people could have died?
How about Heather Hayer that dies at the march that the Democrats planned in Charlottesville?
So if you don't think for one second the Democrats would gladly let people die to get their political
agenda out.
Oh, the police stood down and then were ordered to corral all of the alt-right people into
that to have an explosion.
And why were they out there to begin with?
Who put them out there marching?
Who told them they had to march?
The Democrats, the Soros funded groups.
And now those very funded groups are suing us for exposing what happened in Charlottesville
and then lying about what we said, we said the people there, the Democrats killed the
woman.
No, we said they funded the chaos, the Democratic Party Soros funded Antifa, we even have the
documents, so we'll see how that goes in court.
But here's the thing, let's go back to Hogg, like back then, I'm going to play it one more
time from the beginning.
Here's Hogg reading off his piece of paper and he's telling you the power structure
shaking in its boots, yeah, from the American people, from us and the Second Amendment,
not from them, that's what needs to be understood, here it is.
You can hear the people in power shaking, they've gotten used to being protective of
their positions, the safety of inaction, this is a Nazi march right here, that's what they
want, guns, you think he's on a public figure, you can't talk about him though.
More, 96 people reading off a strip, 96 people die every day from guns in our country.
Hold on, I'm going to play this from the start, I want to back it up to the beginning
please.
Back up to the beginning, I want you to hear about all that again, yes, that's right, more
than half of the gun deaths in this country are suicide, you die of bone cancer, brain
cancer, can't pay for it, whatever, you get out of your misery, they're all for sister
suicide, right?
Then almost all the rest of it is gang related, less than 50 kids a year, it's like 46 a year,
46 a year, look at the federal numbers, dying mass shootings, that's too many, but they
create this whole illusion, let's go back to hog, here it is.
You can hear the people in power shaking, they've gotten used to being protective of
their positions, showing safety, the safety of inaction, inaction is no longer safe, and
to that we say, no more.
You talk about zombies, look at that crowd, they like it waddles, 96 people die every
day from guns in our country, yet most representatives have no public stance on guns, and to that
we say, no more.
Pause, we are going, perfect psychology though, every time there's a shooting, which is going
to happen, like there's a stabbing, a baseball batting, a running over, a poisoning, a strangling,
it's part of human nature, they go, no more, every time someone gets shot, it's gun owners
fault, every time someone uses a gun wrong, it's your fault, it's your fault Owen, and
then they have this moral high ground, where they sit there and act like, because we're
a free country, and some bad people use guns wrongly, that it's all of our faults, and
then each time it happens they go, see, never again can something bad happen, it's your
fault, it is just incredible.
And of course there's no logic, there's no reasoning, they don't look at the actual history,
they don't look at the actual statistics, it's all about virtue signaling, based on
democrat, nazi style propaganda.
We're going to break it in 19 seconds, the point is, who's funding this, George Soros
on record, who's funding this, the globalist, who's funding this multinational foreign powers
that want total control, we'll be right back, I'm Alex Jones, infowars.com, newswars.com.
It's been sold out for months, and now it's back, it's mycozx plus lower price, more ingredients,
because we scaled up, signed a year contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and
producer, scalability, but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50%
off, because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, mycozx, now it's the
other side of the equation, everybody thinks about probiotics, now great they are, for
your gut, because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides, but more importantly
than bad bacteria, the probiotics help this place, yeast mold creates slime walls, and
once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts
of serious issues, well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it, and compounds
known to destroy that slime wall, don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's
too late, pick up a bottle of the new and improved mycozx plus, now from the info wars store,
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or
books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution, I mean
I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at
infowarstore.com, I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride
free toothpaste with colloidal silver, and with high quality, atomic iodine in it, you
cannot beat that, for children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash, designed by
Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or triple
A2533139, and your purchase of the products, stands with us, stands with America, stands
with Trump, stands against the globalists, and their satanic pedophile armies, and that's
who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so
we need your support.
The reason infowarslife has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want
products I'm going to use for my family, I take this, my family takes this, and then
it funds the operation, but the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find
anywhere, so what you find in our news, is the same thing you find in our products at
infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference, I don't feel good, the nascent
iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale, I had a few bottles at my house, and I've
been taking it again, hitting the gym once again, very exciting, feeling great, looking
good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again, so obviously the superfemale is amazing,
I love it.
The nascent iodine is essential, Survival Shield X2, if there's one product that I would
say is life changing that I would suggest, it's nascent iodine, Survival Shield X2,
it's got a five star rating, it's a win-win, infowarslife.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press, all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup
of my favorite coffee.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
By the way folks, I'll be back tomorrow, 11am for four hours with the Alex Jones show.
Owen will be there with the war room, that's of course three to six, and David Knight in
the mornings.
We were doing 10 hours a day live now, but going back to Owen here.
Owen, I want to get to some more of these clips, we're not hysterical, we're just upset
because we knew the big assault was coming on the Second Amendment, and this is the biggest
we've ever seen.
Here's some of the headlines I put out earlier on live, internet feeds of the show.
First offensive in history, launched against the First and Second Amendment, live coverage
of Soros anti-gun march.
This is a Nazi collaborator, foreign globalist funding this on record, and the media tries
to ban you, and CNN argues to have infowars banned off YouTube for saying hog is a democratic
party mouthpiece when he is.
On Twitter, Democrats openly chant, we have the power, we will ban the guns, at rallies
nationwide.
You've got that footage in Austin, you've got highlights coming up next hour.
YouTube, tonight, Stormy, 60 minutes set for Trump's sex, Democrats announced revolution
against the Second Amendment.
This is it, folks.
They mean real authoritarianism in this country, they're pushing on every front, and people
can bitch and grab about free market and the rest of it all day long, but that's what made
America great compared to these other nations.
But since we mentioned it, let's go to this next clip.
This is MSNBC's Matthews.
People should expect basic restrictions on gun rights, like you can't buy guns till
you're 18, like felons can't get them, like there's background checks, like this guy had
been arrested and adjudicated as mentally ill and shouldn't have owned guns, just like
the Texas shooter was in a mental institution, disarmed, will be discharged with the FBI,
and the military didn't file it.
They're always protected, the police always stand down magically, and there's all these
other school shootings where the guy pulls a gun and the cop shoots him in five seconds,
but then no media coverage.
Every week some loon, always on Prozac goes in, and the cop shoots him in seconds, but
then no coverage.
Exactly.
Go ahead.
Well, that's because it doesn't fit their agenda, and so then you have all of these marchers
go out on the streets and they think they're marching because, oh, the only school shooting
that ever happened was the Florida shooting where 17 people died, and it was because this
one nut was able to get an AR because of the NRA and the Second Amendment.
And it's like, well, no, that's one example, you didn't even cover the story in Maryland
where the school shooter didn't even get to kill anyone, the mass shooting was stopped
by the officer on the scene with the gun.
Because he didn't stand down, and the notice hogging them go, it's fine, the sheriff and
the deputy stood down.
They're good.
You're scary.
You don't.
Again, you advertise schools as victim assignment zones.
You advertise, this is where you go.
It's always some person on psychotropic and government care that gets protected.
They go in, the police stand down.
It's always the same story.
Well, and they really think it's our fault.
I mean, that's the brainwashing, like Eric Holder said, we have to brainwash people into
thinking differently.
So the Democrats admit that this is their brainwashing propaganda.
I mean, you're falling for propaganda.
Look at what Eric Holder says.
That's right.
The former attorney general says, we are brainwashing you.
No kidding.
Every show I see on Netflix is globalist propaganda.
I can't even watch it anymore.
Yeah, it does suck that the liberals have tried to take over every element of our culture.
Because they're not liberals.
They are mentally ill-controlled freaks.
And then they're cowardly beta followers.
Well, and then they ask me, Alex, they're like, oh, because we're the bad guys, you
know, I've got an NRA hat on.
So I'm the worst man on earth and say, oh, how do you sleep at night?
How do you sleep?
Well, actually, you know what?
I actually don't get much sleep because I'm trying to fight the globalist propaganda trying
to bring this country down.
Every African country has gunbands on the citizens and they all have higher crime rates
than us.
Mexico, Brazil, the highest in the world, total gunbands.
We have the facts.
They don't care.
That's why they're trying to get our youth.
We put them in the public schools.
We put them in the colleges.
We pay for it all.
And then all the losers that basically matriculate into that, they sit there and believe if they
can get it.
Look, look, look, the average leftist knows.
That's why the Antifa says they're going to use guns.
The left says they're going to kill us.
Hashtag our Republicans.
They just want a revolution to steal all our wealth.
But they can't steal that we're hardworking and smart.
You'll always be sacks of crap.
You'll always be losers.
Don't you get it?
You pieces of filth.
Go to Cuba, go to Venezuela, go to North Korea, stop trying to suck off those of us
that are smart.
We're sorry you're trash.
We're sorry you're dumb.
We're sorry you're stupid.
But dominating us in giant hordes of zombies will never make you a man.
It'll never make you a real boy.
And that's where the social media aspect comes in, where you have these people that don't
feel accomplished.
They don't feel like they have anything that they can stand on.
They, you know, whatever it is going on in their personal lives, they don't have anything
that they just want to conquer the family and swimming pools and factories and fields
and farmers and jobs and red-blooded behavior.
But the left, you want, the left walks around, they're all mentally ill twisted people and
they just freak out on anything good.
You watch them, they're like gibbering crazy people.
That's, they think that they're cool because they go to a march and then they have the
hashtag on social media, right?
They don't have accomplishments.
They don't have anything that they've actually done.
And they block all our hashtags on Facebook, Google, all of it, Twitter.
It's only for them, but it's all fake dopamine in the words of Sean Parker and others.
It's all fake.
None of it's real.
So it's, oh, look at me.
I was at the march for our lives, hashtag march for our lives, hashtag get a bunch of
retweets, hashtag some, you know, certified liberal gets to retweet them.
And then the, oh my God.
And then that's their thing.
Like that's their accomplishment.
Alex like, oh my gosh, I was at the march, I made a tweet.
Let's play the next clip.
This is their main assault.
Here is Chris Matthews with no ratings, no viewers, total failure telling you there's
going to be some basic control.
They're already massive control.
And that's what they're pissed about is they can't get our first.
They can't get our second, but now they're trying to ban pro second amendment speech.
Chris Matthews, people should expect basic restrictions on gun rights on info wars.com
right now.
Here's the video.
When in your lifetime, in our lifetime, did the second amendment start getting quoted
start taking on a kind of different meaning than when we were kids?
It began with the fear that guns would be registered like cars are coming for your gun.
And then they'll come and get them.
Once they have the list, they'll come and get it.
It's always been a, it's a pretty, on a one hand, it's a fairly legitimate American concern
about the rise of too much government.
I mean, it goes back to the British, the British colonization of this country and people don't
like big government.
They don't like people told what to do.
They want to be able to get on their motorcycle without a helmet.
They want to be able to smoke.
Yeah.
They like, they want to be able to have big, big soda.
They don't want to be penalized for what somebody else does, especially when it's a
super rare crime and the places that ban the guns like Chicago, New York, D.C. of the highest
crime rates.
But he's trying to sound reasonable now, but we've got Pelosi, Feinstein, Moore all saying
we want a total abolition where you have no guns.
They want hunting ban too.
Here it is.
Smoke.
Yeah.
They like, they want to be able to have big drinks of soda.
Yeah.
They like freedom.
And the question is, when does freedom go on?
Oh, pause again.
Bloomberg wants the big sodas ban.
Let's continue.
Against someone else's basic safety.
And that's what the government near here, a few blocks away, has to decide.
Where does one person's right trespass on someone else's more basic right, it's life.
And government is in our lives, you can't get in your car without getting yelled at to
put your seatbelt on.
That's enough.
Yeah, exactly.
They haven't found a baby they didn't want to kill.
They're pushing worldwide Islamic takeover, open borders, globalism, you know, hundreds
of thousands of graves in Mexico.
They don't care about that.
It's all just a few deaths.
They zoom in on, they humanize, they project on Americans and say, you're bad Owen, you've
got armed guards.
But then Chris Matthews, Pelosi, all these people, just like Pierce Morgan got caught
with armed guards in his house.
So they've got armed guards, they've got guns, but you can't have them.
I just can't even believe this.
I can't believe that the very party that promotes abortion, funds abortion, loves abortion,
marches for abortion is going to come out here and have a quote, march for our lives
with little graphics of children using the children as political pawns.
You don't give a damn about children.
You gladly abort a million babies a year and then you're going to virtue signal to
me about children lives and somehow I'm the bad guy.
No, it's an elite that wants to neuter America.
That's what it's all about.
When you come back, Jack Pasobic shot video, it's got millions of years of hundreds of
buses.
It's like an hour long video.
We're going to take a minute of it.
Just the first shot you see like 30 buses down this road, it goes on, it just walks.
It's bus after bus after bus.
It just goes on for an hour, just buses and buses and buses and buses and buses.
We're talking hundreds of millions of dollars to ship these people in.
They admit as the Democrats, it's a Nazi collaborator named George Soros.
Introducing Cell Force by Info Wars Life.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much
like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing
reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Info Wars Life and InfoWarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winner's
Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winner's Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function.
For something the globalists are targeting, visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire
meals.
Woo!
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their
narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia
and homophobia, to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully
and terrorize the law-abiding, until the only option left is for the police to do their
jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight
this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
There's massive bullying taking place against gun owners, against our free speech, against
the republic.
This is a foreign outside power coming in and taking over the country.
And when you realize that Soros and all these groups are foreign powers on record, and the
Council on Foreign Relations put out a report that we linked to on Infowars.com admitting
Trump is killing globalism.
Trump is killing the New World Order and you understand why they hate him so much.
That doesn't mean he's perfect.
He doesn't control Congress.
And then you have the head of the Hungarian Parliament warns of anti-human global government.
Technocrats are stripping away religions, national, and sexual identities, he said,
for total control.
That's the game plan.
Anyone that buys into other garbage is being programmed.
There are mega banks that control the fiat currency that want disarmed populations.
It doesn't mean there aren't some problems with guns or cars or knives or drugs.
It's free will.
When they say never again, never one more kid shot, well, your advertising schools is
gun free zones where you go kill people and you wonder why another person on the record
who should have their guns taken didn't have them taken.
And then you look at, in one highway, hundreds of buses to bus in the Democratic Party's
database with unlimited globalist money to tell us that we're at fault and we've got
to turn our guns in, Owen.
This is just crazy.
And the same groups want our free speech gone.
Newspapers everywhere every day say, Jones doesn't deserve to be on air.
He should be banned from speech.
I mean, anyone should look at that and go, that's insane.
What is it this guy's saying that's so dangerous?
Then the new thing is they misrepresent what we say.
Well, Jones says he hates Jews and black people never play a clip.
Not true.
Jones says no, there's Martian bases.
There's no clip.
Well, it's Jones says gay frogs and then you show the scientific studies.
Okay.
Well, that's another thing.
They'll take things we said out of context.
So we're under attack.
You're under attack.
This is historical.
We're winning in many ways because your instincts are strong.
This is a big deal.
Well, and we were talking about this during the break.
Here's what they don't understand.
There's no logic.
It'd be like to make the Star Wars analogy when Anakin Skywalker goes and kills all the
young Jedi's.
And so then Emperor Palpatine says everybody has to turn in their lightsabers.
No one is allowed to have a lightsaber.
Okay.
Well, that's essentially what the Democrats are saying.
So let's say that all the-
Only Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine need weapons.
He could trust him.
He could trust him.
He'll take care of you.
Trust the Imperials.
Trust Mao Zedong.
Trust Hitler.
He'll take those weapons.
The quote will be Jones says trust Hitler.
It's sarcastic.
Don't trust Hitler.
They'll take those nasty lightsabers from the Jedi's that are killing people.
Just look what Anakin Skywalker did.
Oh, and then you find out that that gives Darth Vader unlimited power, unlimited means,
unlimited resources.
So that's-
Because there's nobody in the warrior class to opposing.
And that's what they don't understand about the Second Amendment.
That's what they don't understand about American history because they're not taught it.
Because American history is about empowering the warrior, empowering the family, empowering
the individual.
Where the average commoner had a chance, you had to be noble to even be a knight in the
old days.
No.
Every man is a knight now.
Every woman is a knight.
Everybody's able to defend themselves.
You know who's not a slave?
A man with a gun.
A woman with a gun is not a slave.
But again, less than 50 kids, they have the federal numbers die from shootings.
It's still terrible.
Thousands from car wrecks, thousands from pools, thousands from boat wrecks, thousands
from- they just- they take it, they humanize it, and then they say, you did it.
I am fundamentally angry, Owen, that they say my Second Amendment and my right, just
like when a jihadi runs over somebody with a car.
No one says he ran over somebody in a Chevy truck or a Ford truck or a Mercedes truck.
It's not about the truck.
It's an object.
Like if I was a bash in the head with this coffee cup, it's not the porcelain's fault.
Here's the big issue.
My son Rex Jones went out just a day ago with Jake Loy, one of our reporters who shot footage
for him.
I appreciate Jake doing that.
Rex wanted to do it.
And he went out and said, you know, we got chainsaw, lug nets on guns.
We got Oozies built inside.
All this stuff that doesn't exist.
And the Democrats all agreed outside the gun march.
It's up there.
So this is before the gun march.
You were there later in the day.
It's all right there.
Liberals want to ban guns that don't exist in FullWars.com.
And I did this.
I knew he wanted to go out and do it himself to illustrate how they're not even bad people.
They will buy anything, Owen.
Yeah, it's just sad that this is what has happened to the average mind of an American
that they'll fall for anything.
And when you don't know what you stand for, you'll fall for anything.
That's how the old saying goes.
They don't know what they stand for.
That's why you can't ask them, hey, what are you out here protesting?
And they don't know.
Hey, what do you think, you know, what kind of gun control measures do you think need
to happen?
Go away.
F you, Infowars.
Well, okay.
So that doesn't really help you at all.
That doesn't really help anything.
So what Rex does in this video is so great.
He just shows, oh my gosh, that girl was in my video too.
He just illustrates how they literally will fall for anything.
They literally will fall for anything.
There's an Uzi built within the handle and there's a button with a chainsaw that shoots
out.
I want that band.
It's the same thing.
Hey, here's Bernie Sanders' tax bill and then you read off Trump's tax bill.
Where's the thing?
They don't know about history or corrupt groups or people that aren't independent.
They think like there's this big global group and George Soros wants to help them.
This is what I always try to tell the youth and Rex is a good example of this.
If you study and read and understand things and are well-spoken, you are literally miles
ahead of the rest of your peers.
Oh, they call it insider trading.
I'm not even involved in the stock market, but I've told people positions before just
around the office and show them what's going to happen.
They're like, God, that one up 20% in a week.
How'd you know?
Because when you know this stuff, you know everything.
They're tuned in.
They don't want you tuned in.
They just want you to have some mindless bot that gets whatever energy it has that gives
it up to them.
Exactly.
That's why I always tell you.
I'm like, look, most of them disagree with me, but at least can talk to me or willing
to have a conversation.
Seem open-minded.
I'm like, look, just being open-minded and being willing to have a conversation and
debate.
What about the folks that stopped you for hours and even when you were nice and let them talk
for like 30 minutes, they wouldn't leave you alone and try to stop your interviews?
They're anti-free speech.
They kept saying, I want to make sure you don't harass women.
It's like this thing.
Men can't talk to women.
It works perfect for me because then the youth sees that and I say, do you want to be like
this loser when you're older?
Do you want to be like this psycho when you're older?
And of course they see that and it kind of hits home to them and they're like, wait a
second.
Let me tell you, I don't just have to be positive.
People know I don't hype stuff.
We're down.
I tell you, we're down.
But we're starting to get up.
I tell you, we're up.
My kids are in sports, so they're in private school, but they play public schools.
I go there.
It's like incredible.
They love Steven Crowder.
They love Paul Watson.
They love you.
They love me.
They're like hog.
He's a front for Hollywood.
Screw those old people.
That's what Hollywood gets that though.
They're trying to be cool.
Look, we got kids.
They kids know, man, their professors, their teachers are all brainwashing them so they
go to us.
We're not even doing the work.
That's what the left doesn't get.
Don't you get it?
We're the counterculture dumbasses.
Well, I don't know if they'll ever get it if they haven't gotten it by now to be honest
with you because I think they're so.
I think they're so just full delusional delusion, they're in their own world invested too.
They're fully invested in their committed and but I'll say they're dangerous.
I'm not saying we're even going to win.
Here's the thing.
We told we told you when Trump won.
This is just the beginning.
He's not even perfect.
He's not a dictator.
He can't do it all.
You know, I get that it's an omnibus.
It's not a budget.
Same thing.
I get that it's not that good of a deal.
We got Stefan Malinu that's on tomorrow piss.
We got so many people on certain of which is coming on that's pissed off at Trump.
I get it.
I have problems too.
We'll have a debate tomorrow.
11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
You've got the war room.
David, I'll be on the morning cover and all.
But the point is history is happening now.
The battle's on.
We're the vanguard in this fight and just to spend a minute and a half here where we
go to break.
Without you, we're not here.
The global has stored sorrows, the Democratic Party.
They're all suing us.
They're trying to shut down the free speech.
They're failing.
The lawyers all say it's totally fraudulent.
They'll beat it easily, but it still takes money.
Hundreds of thousands per suit to beat it.
Go get water filters.
Go get air filters.
Go get non-GMO air lymph seeds.
Go get the highest quality supplements that blow away with Bezos cells and Whole Foods
and Amazon that are amazing and infoworksstore.com.
We have the Alexa Pure Breeze 4-stage ion filter.
It's $199 normally.
It's $149 right now.
$50 off.
We think competitors are $400 to $500.
We also have free shipping.
God, I forgot to add that.
We've got a bunch of other free shipping stuff that's about to end.
Incredible on SuperMail and Superfumo Vitali 25% off.
That's infoworksstore.com.
The new colloidal silver immune gargle, that's about to sell out 33% off.
It's all there.
When you fund our operation, you make us unstoppable.
You are standing against sorrows and the globalist and everything they do when you spread an
article, when you spread a video, I was sitting there with all these young girls, friends
of my daughters, driving back from Six Flags to today.
They were all like, look at this crap on my feed, this hashtag, this hashtag, turn your
guns in.
And I said counter it.
They go, well, my daddy doesn't let me.
Well, that's fine.
But again, all these other leftist kids don't have daddies.
And that's the answer.
All of us have to release and speak out and stand up and we will win.
Period.
All right.
Hour number two.
Owen has got boil downs of the ground grabber rallies and awesome.
He's got a bunch of clips, so much coming up.
And on fire, they got to get out of his way, let it take over second hour in full wars.com
four slash show, spread these live links, choose to take control of your chemistry with survival
shield X two and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure
deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence
every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones.
You may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog, survival
shield X two and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield X two and bio true selenium at info wars life.com
Hey, how are you doing?
Good brother.
Just recently start using your products, everything you said about them is correct.
Me and my wife both use a lot of them and it's made a lot of changes in our lives here.
Thank you brother, it's because it also funds our operation, but doing that I know I'm
going to have the highest quality.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's own natural processes instead
of using synthetic chemicals.
We do the super male and the super female vitality, big changes, a lot of energy, we've
gotten off to the cheap energy drinks, energy shots, they've got a ton of money there.
Sourced from powerful organic herbs, harvested around the planet and then concentrated or
maximum potency, they want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff, just cover
that up for a while, but then burn you out in my experience, whereas stuff that gets
your glands naturally going goes right to the source, so it's pretty exciting and I
love it.
Visit info wars life.com today to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products
from info wars life.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
George Soros is openly spending hundreds of millions for this anti-gun march, the Nazi
collaborator, and if you watch the incredible videos that John Bown has bowled down from
C-SPAN, they directly attack us, Daniel Loach, the NRA, you name it, trying to get the crowd
of young people into a frenzy against us.
So Owen's coming up, I'm coming up, we're going to break all this down, got other guests
coming on, a bunch of clips, but right now let's look at the demonization that's taking
place against those of us that defend the Second Amendment as they launch the biggest
attack in history against our basic right.
What separates mainstream media from blatant propaganda?
800 marches are planned for Saturday, from Bismarck to Salt Lake City, Memphis to Springfield,
Virginia, and everywhere in between, children now taking on a very adult topic, politics,
and hoping they can teach the grown-ups a lesson.
The lopsided coverage of the march for life was anything but objective, but don't take
my word for it, here's gun grabber and chief Senator Dianne Feinstein from California with
more.
Let's bring in a prominent member of the United States, Senator Dianne Feinstein of
California, she's in San Francisco right now, Dianne, thank you for joining us, Senator.
What's it like out there today, it's wild here in Washington?
Well, it's the first day of spring, people are here, the program hasn't begun yet.
I want people to know is that we have introduced an assault weapons ban.
My office wrote it, but we have 30 co-sponsors, it's in the Judiciary Committee.
We are asking for a hearing, problem is, we need 60, and we don't have a single Republican.
And you've got to get the military weapon off of the streets and out of the schools
and out of circulation, I deeply believe that.
Even the presentation during the March for Life rally in Washington, D.C. subjected the
participants with no-thigh-enemies-style expositions.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
Hitler took the guns, Stalin took the guns, if you try to take our firearms, it doesn't
matter how many lemmings you get out there on the street begging for them to have their
guns taken, we will not relinquish them.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their
narrative over and over again.
What matters is who the enemy is, they're the no-gun people, period.
Listen up, you might have met our fresh-faced flower child, President, we need Ivy League
friends.
The only truly free people who have ever walked this earth have been armed people.
You are either with us or against us at this point.
High school students are refusing to let thoughts and prayers be the end of the school.
If a change is going to be made, whatever that may be, then it can only be accomplished
by a come-to-the-table discussion by both sides of the issue.
And as a parent, you protect children.
You protect them until they're mature enough, you protect them until they're emotionally
mature enough, physically mature enough, until they can make decisions for themselves.
What you don't do, Grant, is exploit children to make the arguments that either you yourself
can't make or that you want to make, but sounds inarticulate and inappropriate coming
out of the mouth of a 40- or 50-year-old anti-gun advocate.
And that's the problem that we're looking at here, and that's why no one really in
the media wants to talk about some of the people who are taking part in organizing the
event.
I just saw a press release that went out with Everytown in Mom's Demand, and I will
have you know, Everytown is a huge fan of Stop and Frisk, and this is an organization
along with Mom's Demand that have consistently rejected the idea of any kind of safety measures
at all whatsoever, while simultaneously saying that law-abiding gun-owning Americans like
myself somehow don't have any solutions for safety, when yet I've approached them repeatedly
to work with organizations perhaps maybe like Eddie Eagle or School Shield or Project Child
Safe, and they've rejected every single overture, so I have to kind of question where their
true intent lies.
The March for Life made it abundantly clear that their developing message has already
been hijacked by the gun-grabbers in Congress, the media, and the sycophants of the United
Nations Arms Trade Treaty.
John Baum reporting for InfoWars.com.
I'm so excited, the new product at InfoWarsLife.com, in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
One GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at InfoWarsStore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, Alex Jones has checked out for the Sunday show.
Of course, he'll be back fired up as usual for the weekly broadcast, four hours, the
Alex Jones show 11-3, but I've got some headlines I want to cover here, and then at the bottom
of the hour, we're going to play Rex Jones going out on the streets, talking to liberals
about guns that don't exist.
Yes, they want to ban guns that don't exist, so that's going to be rich, and then I have
a boil down of my two hours of live broadcasting from the March for Our Lives in Austin, Texas.
Now, I got to tell you, it's really strange because I edit this boil down, but it's really
strange reliving it through the editing process.
When you're actually there, I'm in the zone and I'm reporting, I mean, literally both
my hands are tied.
They're showing a video, a clip of this right now, but I go back and when I'm reviewing
this, it's even more insane than I remember.
It's like, I'm going back and I'm thinking, okay, here were some of the highlights, here's
what I'll put in the video, and then I watch the full two hours and I'm like, my gosh,
like the whole two hours is insane.
Like if I wanted to actually boil it down to a highlight from two hours, it'd still
be like an hour and a half, but we're going to have some boil downs.
I'm going to put out some other edits as well, so you can just review the madness that is
these liberals that are marching against their rights.
They're literally marching against their rights, but let me just hit some of these
headlines here just to show you some of the hypocrisy.
This is from Breitbart, celebrities hit the streets to support student gun control march,
vote them all out.
Well, the funny thing is, at this point, I'm kind of willing to vote out about 80% of
Congress as well.
I mean, the Republican Party is a total joke.
The only ones that seem to be conservatives are Rand Paul, Jim Jordan, a handful of others.
But so you've got Jim Carrey, you've got other stars out there, apparently George Clooney,
they're pledging millions and millions of dollars to these events.
Oh, but how much do you want to bet that every single one of those celebrities that was out
on the streets with the marchers was protected by armed guards?
You think for one second that any of these celebrities are going to go on the streets
of America without armed security?
You are nuts.
So here's the biggest hypocrites in America protected by guns that then go out on a massive
globalist platform and say, turn in the guns, gun control now, and then has armed security
escort them out of the event.
And somehow, even though the hypocrisy is so blatant, so in your face, somehow these
liberals still fall for it because they're brainwashed and they don't stand for anything.
If you don't stand for anything, you'll fall for anything.
And they do fall for anything, including banning a weapon that doesn't exist and listening
to an individual about turning your guns in, who is protected by armed security around
the clock and has a wall around his house.
I mean, seriously, folks, this is so basic common sense.
The only way to explain it is that the left, the liberal minions, are literally brainwashed.
And that's not our rhetoric.
Listen to what Eric Holder says.
We have to literally brainwash the public into thinking differently about guns.
He says we're going to do it in all the schools every day, all day, every school.
And then what do you get?
A bunch of indoctrinated students who march against their own rights.
That's the Democrat brainwashing.
They told you that would happen.
And then they take the biggest phonies on earth who get escorted in with armed security,
say take the guns, gun control now, and then get escorted out with armed security.
And then all the brainwashed minions indoctrinated by the public school say, yeah, oh my gosh,
he's so righteous, he's such a good guy.
And then he gives you a big fat middle finger as he walks away in his armed security.
So that's fine.
What's next?
Research for our lives will start a revolution, says Parkland School Shooting Survivor.
Oh yeah, oh, you're going to get your revolution, bud.
You're going to get your revolution.
You're going to get your Nazi style revolution.
That's what you want.
You're the Nazis.
You're the Brownshirts.
You're the Maul Brigade.
Where does it end?
You know what the revolution is, folks?
They just kill us all.
You don't think for one second that these anti-gun liberals would gladly burn every
NRA member to death, just like the Nazis did to the Jews?
That's their hatred.
That's their fomented hatred by the Democrats, by the propaganda, absolutely.
And now you understand why we're pro-second amendment.
Now you understand why we have guns, because I've got radical liberals in this country
that would gladly burn me to death in a gas chamber.
Absolutely they would.
That's why they go out on the streets, march against guns, because of the propaganda of
the Democrat Party that Eric Holder announced years ago.
And just like Hitler, then they stage events, use those events to demonize their enemies
and then say, we have to take the guns, literally, literally the Nazi playbook.
I mean, literally play for play right out of the Nazi playbook.
And to make it even more crazy, I mean, as if that wasn't crazy enough, then their next
march is going to be Trump as Hitler.
And you want to turn the guns into Hitler?
So yeah, you're trying to start a revolution, for sure, just like the Nazis did to kill
the Jews.
That's what you're doing on the left.
You want to kill conservatives and gun owners.
That's your revolution, you're violent, you're hateful, you're ignorant, you're uninformed,
you're brainwashed.
Again, we don't even talk about some of the stuff we put up with around here, folks, but
there's a reason why we're staunch Second Amendment activists.
Here's from the Gateway Punnett, David Hogg rallies, Democrats in DC.
If you listen real close, you can hear the people in power shaking, really?
Really because you're proposing to give all the guns over to the people in power.
Why would they be shaking, David Hogg?
Why would the people in power be shaking, David Hogg, if you are trying to give them
all the guns?
Think about it.
He says if you listen real close, the people in power are shaking.
You want to give the guns to all the people in power, so why would they be the ones shaking?
The ones shaking are going to be the citizens of this country that lose their right to bear
arms, lose their right to self-protection, women, children, families, they're all going
to lose their rights to protection because of you, David Hogg, and then the power structure
that you claim is shaking is going to be the one with all the guns and then they're going
to bring in their authoritarian regime.
That's how this works.
So is David Hogg a complete moron or is he a stooge?
Is he being fed party lines from the Democrats, from the FBI?
You can hear the people in power shaking as we want to give the people in power all the
guns.
Trump is Hitler and we want to give Hitler all the guns.
We're anti-fascists, but we want to hand all the guns into the government just like
a fascist regime would do.
And then somehow I'm the crazy one according to these people when I go out on the streets
and we'll have the video, we got the video, we're going to play the video at the bottom
of the hour.
Oh, but whoa, oh my gosh, but stop the presses because 60 minutes is going to interview a
porn star tonight.
Oh yeah, Stormy Daniels attorney sends a warning shot to Trump, it's time to come clean.
Well, congratulations to Stormy Daniels for being smarter than the media.
So now a porn star has literally outsmarted the mainstream liberal media.
A porn star is now smarter than the average liberal media outlet and she has totally,
totally pawned them all to promote her own show, her own whatever.
So now Stormy Daniels is smarter than the average liberal on television as she's using
them all right now to promote her own agenda.
As if any of this is going to bring Trump down, this is what I was saying earlier.
If the liberal media understood anything about trying to bring Trump down, they'd be talking
about this omnibus spending bill, but they don't want to complain about that.
See, they can't complain about that because it's their bill.
So if they complain about the omnibus bill, they're complaining about their own bill that
funds Planned Parenthood.
So they can't do that.
So instead they interview a porn star on CNN, Anderson Cooper on CNN, Anderson Cooper on
60 minutes and they somehow mythically think that this is going to turn the Republic against
Trump when nobody gives a damn.
Nobody gives a damn about who Trump slept with and when.
What we want is a government that puts America first.
What we want is a bill of rights and we're sick of politicians trying to do everything
they can to infringe upon it.
That's what we want.
It's not that confusing and a porn star is not going to stop that from happening.
After being sold out for months, our best selling Super Blue Florida toothpaste is now
back in stock at M4store.com, the first shipment of Super Blue sold out in one week.
I thought it would be a six month supply for listeners.
And since then, people are beating down our doors wanting to be able to resupply their
Super Blue.
Research across the board is clear.
In fact, it's certified.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood
clots and heart attacks.
That's why the last Surgeon General's report on oral health warns that your oral health
can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super Blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula that's loaded with good halogen
iodide, some of the bad halogen fluoride.
Super Blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out
bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in Super Blue chosen by our dental experts include silo
tall, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver and more.
Learn more about Info Wars Life Super Blue toothpaste at InfoWarsLife.com and support
the Info War while you support healthy gums and teeth.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back.
It's MycoZX Plus, lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract
with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability.
But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off because there's a
lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX.
Now it's the other side of the equation, everybody thinks about probiotics, now great
they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all
that get in there, it causes all sorts of syrups, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs
in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus now from the InfoWars store.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
InfoWarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Like to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Broadcasting live from the UN Stronghold, Austin, Texas, you're listening to the Alex Jones
show and now your host, Owen Troyer.
Alright, just running down these final headlines before we premiere the Rex Jones video, getting
liberals to admit they want to ban guns that don't exist, again they'll fall for anything.
And then my boil down from my live coverage of the March for Our Lives in Austin, Texas
on Saturday, just a brief boil down, there'll be a couple more videos I put out probably
tomorrow just showing you the craziness.
Because even in this ten minute boil down I'm going to play, I had to take two hours
and condense into ten minutes, I don't even get it all, I mean there's so many juicies
that don't even make it into that, but we're going to have that on the other side.
Let me just clear out this stack of news here before we get into that though.
So again, you've got mainstream media hyping up a porn star as if she's going to be the
hero to bring down Trump.
And so this is the New York Times headline, Stormy Daniels, Trump's unlikely foe is not
someone to be underestimated, wow.
The porn star, don't underestimate her, she's really got it coming for Trump.
Yeah, the porn star is a real threat to the President of the United States, I'm sure.
I'm sure that a porn star really strikes fear into Donald Trump, yes, yes, it's not like
Trump is smart, it's not like he's witty, it's not like he sees things three moves ahead,
probably already did with whatever this deal is.
And I do kind of wonder tongue in cheek if this isn't what he meant by the calm before
the storm, but again, I say that kind of sarcastically.
But again, here's the New York Times saying that a porn star is not to be underestimated.
When was that cover ran guys?
They're showing me a cover of the New York Post, this is from what, the 90s or something
here.
Yeah, yeah, what do you know, a billionaire who works with supermodels is hanging out
and in relationships with supermodels.
Wow, I mean, I had no idea that rich men, athletes, celebrities, actors, what have you,
I didn't know that they hung out with beautiful women and models and playboy models and porn
stars.
I didn't know that was going on.
Wow, I mean, wow, I'm just, oh my gosh, I'm just floored.
I'm just flabbergasted that rich famous men hang out with playboy models.
I mean, I've never heard of such a notion.
I mean, this can't be true.
But it's so funny, see, it shows you how fake they are.
It's so funny that here they are now, and they think they can bring down Trump with
a porn star and then paint Trump as some sort of, I guess, degenerate that has a relationship
or has relationships or sexual relationships with porn stars, whatever it is.
And so they think they can use that degenerate, you know, angle to bring Trump down.
Meanwhile, they promote the biggest degeneracy on the face of the earth.
Where did all this degeneracy originate, Hollywood?
And so then they have all of these TV shows like the Kardashians that are porn stars.
Kim Kardashian gets famous from a porn star shoot.
And they have all of these movies, glamorizing sex, sexualizing children.
So Hollywood literally degenerates society.
The media degenerates society with the sex, drugs, rock and roll and all the propaganda.
So they degenerate society.
They are the ones that prop up all of the sex and violence and then try to make money
off of it in the media.
And then they try to say Trump bad, he degenerate, he sleep with porn star and you look at them
and you're like, you just played for 20 years straight sex and violence on TV.
And then you think after you've desensitized me to all of this, you're going to use it
against me?
You think that you, George Clooney, who's protected by arm security all day long, is
going to get on some high horse on a podium and tell me I need to turn my guns in and
we need gun control and then you're going to be escorted out with arm security?
Wow.
And then you realize there are actually liberals out there brainwashed enough to believe it.
So but let's get into, yeah, so, so, I mean, it's just such a joke.
It won't matter.
I mean, they already interviewed the other Playboy model on CNN on Friday.
You know how many people blinked an eye?
None.
Nobody cared.
Nobody cared, Anderson Cooper, about your porn star interview on CNN.
Nobody watches CNN.
Maybe your Stormy Daniels interview gets some viewers though.
Maybe you'll do some good, you know, some good interviews with Stormy Daniels.
I'm sure that everyone really is looking forward to that, not, again, if they understood anything,
they would be attacking Trump on the omnibus bill, but they can't because it's their bill.
They are the ones that wanted it.
They are the ones that wanted to fund Planned Parenthood.
And let me just say this, I don't want to get too much into this because I'll just go
off on a jag, but the Republicans really did themselves no favors with this bill.
And you're looking at a situation now where Trump's base that would have voted Republican
are now totally turned off of the Republican Party.
And how can you blame him?
They're all Republican in name only.
How is Paul Ryan a conservative?
How is Mitch McConnell a conservative?
What have they conserved?
What have they followed through on?
They didn't follow through when they won the House under Obama.
They didn't follow through when they won the Senate under Obama.
They didn't follow through when we elected Trump and they had the House and they had
the Senate.
You know what they did?
Diddly.
They gave the Democrats the bill they wanted.
They give the Democrats sanctuary cities.
They give the Democrats Planned Parenthood funding.
So the Republicans have really screwed the pooch with this deal.
And then we're teasing if you're a television viewer right now.
This is the woman who blows fart whistles at me and then denies it even though I have
all the footage and then gets caught admitting on camera that she's a protest organizer and
she's telling people not to speak to Infowars.
So that's what you get.
We'll have that on their side.
Facebook runs UK US newspaper ads apologizing for data scandal.
Oh boy, Facebook doing damage control as it looks like they're going to burn one of their
own again.
Mark Zuckerberg.
Folks, we need your support at InfowarsStore.com.
Now we honestly need to hire more people with the amount of reports we're doing.
It's just insanity.
And I'm not complaining, believe me.
But when I go out to these deals, I go out by myself.
I'm my own cameraman.
I'm holding a mic.
I don't even have a free hand.
I edit all of it by myself.
So I'm not complaining.
It's just we want to expand.
We want to do more.
We want to hire more editors.
We want to hire more reporters.
We want to have bigger studios and it's all in the works, but it all relies on your support
at InfowarsStore.com.
We got great deals, including 33% off the new Super Silver, iodine, infusion, immune
gargle.
That's 33% off, 50% off, alexipere breeze right now.
That's the air filter.
You got to filter your air, folks.
If you don't have an alexipere breeze in your home to keep the air clean, I don't know what
you're thinking.
And it's $50 off right now at InfowarsStore.com.
So a huge savings on the alexipere breeze at InfowarsStore.com.
Now is the time, 25% off Survival Shield X2, 50% off the new Myco ZX Plus.
It's all at InfowarsStore.com.
Check out the ratings of our products, five star ratings across the board, all highly
rated products, certified reviews.
These products are the real deal, folks.
That's why we're able to sell them and fund ourselves with them.
So all thanks to you supporting us at InfowarsStore.com.
So spread those links, spread those videos.
On the other side, we're going to go to a report in downtown Austin where liberals want
to ban guns that don't even exist.
Wow.
You thought they were done before, till you see this video.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
This is InfowarsLife.com.
In the history of InfowarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, SuperMell Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and ressecured, you're finding the tip of
the spear in the Infowars.
That's InfowarsLife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide, go ahead.
Oh Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time InfowarsListener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotruce Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for the InfowarsLife products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Thanks because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
It's time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
that's easy to use and let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire
meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation
like canning or dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is
no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones Show and now your
host, Owen Troyer.
Well, you can pretty much get liberals to be tricked into sign anything, say anything,
do anything because they're that ignorant.
I've got liberals to sign a petition to remove George Washington off the dollar bill.
I've got liberals to sign or to admit that they like Trump's tax plan by saying it's
Bernie's.
Mark Dice gets liberals to say we need to stop hunting pterodactyls.
Now Rex Jones goes out to the streets to ask liberals about guns that don't even exist.
Hi, I'm Rex Jones from infowars.com, but I'm no longer Rex Jones.
I'm Chad Flindersen from News 7, a liberal news organization which I made up.
I'm here to see what insane gun accessories and gun laws people will actually believe
exist.
Do you think that the semi-automatic nozzle should be banned on most AR-15s?
This is a device which lets the user screw off the barrel of the gun and convert it into
a semi-automatic, oozy like weapon for more damage in close areas.
See that right there?
That, in fact, is the nozzle right there.
Do you think that should be banned?
Yes.
It's good to talk to people that know what they're talking about.
This is awesome.
What are your thoughts on buff stocks?
I think they should be illegal.
Yeah, they're absolutely horrible.
It allows you to turn a semi-automatic weapon into a fully automatic weapon.
I know.
Totally illegal.
It's awful.
It switches through mode of fire, incredibly dangerous, this is one of the things that
the NRA loves.
Here's the thing, I don't want to be on the news, but I will tell you that I think anything
that makes it easier to kill more people in a short amount of time is bad and should
be illegal.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much, ma'am.
Common Sense Gun Reform.
Sorry?
Thoughts on Common Sense Gun Reform?
Any opinions?
Um, band guns.
Mr. and Mrs. America, turn them all in.
That's, I would say a good opinion right there.
Are you aware of the new apparatus the NRA is shipping out as these modified bump stocks
turning any semi-automatic weapon into a fully automatic weapon?
Yeah, I think I've probably heard of that.
I'm definitely against that.
Well it's this apparatus right here.
Do you see it?
Yeah.
Highly dangerous.
In some cases people are even fitting blades into them so they can use it as a hacksaw for
more damage.
You don't have to sell me.
I'm 100% forgotten control.
What would you say?
What do we need now?
What kind of legislation?
Um, I mean we need to ban these types of automatic and, um, you know, the military style weapons.
I'm so sorry about that.
The fully semi-automatic weapons?
Yeah.
Um, I mean there's no reason that a citizen needs something like that.
Absolutely.
You know, did you know that that screws off and becomes an even more deadly, oozy like
weapon?
I mean, yeah.
Um, I mean it's already deadly enough, I think, already.
The thing is, is any American can go and purchase one of those using their several liberties
and that's absolutely horrible.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Working.
Thank you for your opinion.
Yeah.
I'm just working on it.
Thank you so much.
A great example of how the average liberal s**t of you is so stupid and uneducated on
the matters of gun control that they'll just believe anything you feed them.
I mean, the things that I'm making up could not be more fake, a bullet button, a hacksaw
bump stock, come on people, anyone with like half a brain cell should be able to recognize
this stuff.
A lot of people know about the bump stocks, you're well-educated, you know about them,
but not a lot of people know about the screw off nozzle that the newer AR-15s are capable
of.
See, and specialized forms like this one, you're able to actually screw off the top
of this one and it turns into an even more highly lethal oozy like weapon.
What are your thoughts on that, sir?
I'm not entirely, you know, I don't know anything about that too much, so I really
know, but I mean, the idea of it sounds a lot more dangerous.
It's newer technology, the NRA, and actually a couple of senators are working on getting
this technology since the United States.
Highly dangerous, you see the screw off nozzle there.
And I think it's just absolutely wonderful that a citizen like you is open to common
sense gun reform.
Thank you, sir.
No problem.
It would only take a moment of your time.
We'd really appreciate it here.
Would you step back here, please?
Thank you, sir.
What are your thoughts on common sense gun reform and control?
I support common sense gun control reform.
Thank you.
It's common sense.
People don't need weapons of war.
I agree.
We were just in the LBJ presidential library and they had guns just like this.
They said weapons of war in the glass and I was thinking to myself, you can buy these
at Swartz Authority.
That is a great observation.
Are you aware of the bullet button allows people to rapidly change firing modes and
are you aware the bump stock turns any weapon into a fully automatic weapon ready to kill
hundreds of people?
I am and I don't understand why that's legal.
Thanks.
I mean, what candidates are you supporting that support things like this?
Well, it seems like a standard platform on the Democratic Party side.
That's what I like.
I feel as if the Republican ideals of the Second Amendment are really outdated now that we have
weapons like this.
It was meant for muskets in reality.
I know.
When you look at the history, it was meant for weapons that could fire one shot a minute.
Only the government should have weapons like this.
Don't you agree?
I agree.
Absolutely.
Thanks.
And just in closing, I know we've taken up so much of your time.
I appreciate it.
You are a thinker and an intellectual.
I really appreciate you commenting on this.
What is your opinion on the 1,000 yard site that is totally legal and people can snipe
whoever they want?
Well, I think it's necessary for hunting.
Oh, yeah, for hunting, but we have like metal and wood.
It's a good rule of thumb.
You have rifles that are meant for hunting.
This is meant to kill people.
Yeah.
Why it's legal to attach to a weapon that should be banned?
I don't understand.
The 2, 2, 3, it's a heavy round.
It's meant to take, it's meant to take out armor piercing plates.
It's what the military uses.
It's just a slightly less powerful version of the M16, which the military uses.
So you agree with me.
Weapons like this should be banned, right?
I do agree.
I don't think weapons of war should be able to be bought by anyone who's over 18 or 21.
Anyone who has a weapon, which is capable to add blades on, telescopic sniping people,
having weapons like this, which have a unscrupable nozzle where you can pull it out and it functions
just identically to an Uzi.
That's incredibly legal, but it's legal thanks to our NRA and the Second Amendment.
That should be abolished, in my opinion.
Yeah, I think so.
I think the right to protect yourself, you don't need a weapon like this to protect
yourself at home and you don't need a weapon like this to be a good hunter.
Oh, just get a can of pepper spray.
I mean, come on.
You don't need AK-17s and AR-15s and 12s.
You don't need weapons like that, do you?
I don't think so.
AR-17s.
Thank you, sir.
Can I shake your hand really quick?
I just, man, I love meeting people like you.
People that know what they're talking about.
Vote.
Get out there and vote.
I do vote, and thanks for your work as well.
Thank you, sir.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you, Kevin, the complete bullcrap agency, where we sell fake gun control laws.
And just really brainwash people into thinking about guns in a vastly different way.
No one needs a bump stock, right?
They don't.
I mean, bump stocks are able to turn any gun into a fully automatic weapon.
And in some cases, like the Las Vegas shooter, people are attaching blades to them.
That's not okay, right?
It is not okay.
You know, I'm okay for people that want to have guns for protection and things like that.
But why do you need that kind of gun?
Nobody needs that kind of gun.
You don't need this kind of weaponry.
I mean, it's absurd.
I mean, to protect yourself, get a shotgun.
You don't need a fully semi-automatic weapon.
Get some pepper spray.
I mean, amen, people.
Stun gun.
Stun gun.
Buy a shotgun.
Buy a shotgun.
Here.
Thank you.
Non-lethals.
I mean, we have such a wide range.
It's not muskets anymore.
People buy weapons like this, trying to protect themselves and their families.
That's ridiculous.
Single shot or no shots at all.
That's what I say.
What are your thoughts on this, ma'am?
I believe in personal protection, but there's no reason for anything on an automatic weapon.
What are your thoughts about the bullet button?
Once you switch through modes of fire, it should be highly legal, right?
The modes of fire should be highly illegal, you say?
The bullet button, it lets you switch.
I don't even know about a bullet button.
Well, that's what the NRA has been trying to cover up by paying up the politicians.
It's the bullet button.
Oh, I would be against it.
In fact, I think we should regulate bullets more than guns.
Oh, actually, I mean, you take a hollow point bullet.
I mean, those things can pierce through cars when it's on fully automatic.
When a hollow point bullet's on fully automatic, it can go through a person's head.
I'm sorry for the gross imagery.
Like a watermelon.
It should be highly legal, right?
What are your thoughts on that?
Yeah, I agree with that.
There's no reason for it.
All we need is, you know, like Don was saying, personal protection.
I mean, anyone can go into an academy now and purchase a weapon of war.
This should be illegal.
I'm sick of this, and I'm sick of this crap.
We need common sense gun reform now.
Wow, who is this young, energetic newsman?
He is right.
We need to do something about the bullet button.
Wow, so there you go, folks.
Proof, liberals will literally fall for anything.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Add to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest
cutting-edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat
and other proteins better, and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic
culture of the very best strains in fluorolife advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolife everyday maintenance, but all of
these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely
affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at InfoWarsLife.com, you know you are also financing the attack
on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide, also enjoying
what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfoWarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
As down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly
to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Dropped by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original, or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting
a free press.
All the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee, available at InfoWarsLife.com.
It's been sold out for months, and now it's back.
It's MycoZX Plus, lower price, more ingredients, because we scaled up, signed to your contract
with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability.
But now, we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off, because there's
a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX.
Now, it's the other side of the equation.
Everybody thinks about probiotics, and how great they are for your gut, because of toxins
in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls.
And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes
all sorts of psoriasis.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it, and compounds known to destroy
that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus now from the InfoWars store.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, final segment of the Alex Jones Show here on a Sunday, Owen
Shroyer filling in.
Now, let's go to this boil down report.
I was live from the March for Our Lives in Austin, Texas yesterday for two hours.
All of the footage can be found on the Alex Jones channel of YouTube, and it really is
worth it.
I'm going to try to put out a couple of boil downs, but the whole thing is just insane.
So let's go to a brief compilation of what I experienced yesterday at the March for Our
Lives in Austin, Texas.
If I sat down here, they'd probably all get triggered.
Let's see what happens.
I'm going to sit down.
I call that or what?
Did I call that or what?
What's up, man?
Yeah, it didn't take long, guys.
Did it?
Didn't take long.
Oh, okay.
Sorry about that.
Yep.
I'll move.
I'll get out of the seats.
Yeah, no problem.
Nobody's sitting in the seats.
Here, pause right there.
Just so that because most of our audience is radio.
Nobody is at the March yet.
I'm there before anybody gets there.
There's literally like a hundred seats wide open and I just sit down in one of the seats
and sure enough, here comes the team of brown shirt Nazis to come over and say, sir, you
need to move.
You need to get up.
You need to move.
Just play through.
Just go.
Yeah, here you go.
Yeah, you got to move.
You got to move.
Nobody's in the chairs.
Wide open.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
Yep.
I'll move.
I'll get out of the seats.
Yeah, I was taking a seat from someone, obviously.
I call that or what?
Just part of the hate we get.
Oh, look at this.
Oh, this is just beautiful.
Yes.
Hello.
Yeah.
I can't over here.
Well, no, no, I'm not with press.
I'm just a I'm just a First Amendment free citizen out here.
That's all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Thanks, guys.
Yeah, then they thought they could intimidate me.
Now they're telling people they can't talk to me.
That seems kind of cultist, don't you think, to stop someone from talking?
I'm right next to him.
No one's going to get aggressive.
Thank you.
All right.
Hey, what do you think about Hillary rigging the election from Bernie?
I mean, I already took a picture of you guys.
How's Alex Jones doing right now, by the way?
Really?
We've got the power.
Are the frogs gay?
Yeah, have you heard of atrazine?
Atrazine?
Is that what turned the frogs gay?
Yeah, there's multiple scientific studies, including one out of California, Berkeley.
Man, that's weird.
It must have turned me.
Now pause it right there.
Now, it's funny because she is also in the video we played in the last segment.
Yeah, I rewind it a little bit more so you can hear her final statement here.
But I mean, there's this weird new thing where they just come up to me and they take a picture.
Like, I'm some sort of ghost or something.
Like, taking a picture of me is intimidating or something, or they're capturing a ghost
or Bigfoot or something.
I'm going to keep interrupting.
Just let it play.
Man, that's weird.
It must have turned me gay, too.
Man, did you hear about the Maryland shooting?
Man, I can't handle it.
All right, all right.
Mental patient.
Oh, you're this one.
Hey, sir, that's a nice shirt.
What don't you like about Trump?
Where do I start?
Anywhere you'd like.
No, I asked about your shirt.
Talk about brainwash zombie.
Oh, you can't tell me why you don't like Trump, right?
Just like all the others.
You don't have the brain capacity.
I have the brain capacity to tell you why I like Trump.
I don't have the brain capacity to connect more than two dots.
Okay, so let me tell you why I like Trump.
He wants a strong border.
He's fixing the economy.
Why don't you like Trump?
You were beaten when you were a kid.
And here's the youth leading the march.
The Hitler-Nazi Bergerade, the brown shirt.
Now, this is where it gets insane, and I'm going to put out this full video
probably tomorrow.
This 10-minute clip is the most insane thing you've ever seen.
This is literally what Hitler did.
You are witnessing a brown shirt Nazi propaganda march in 2018, right here, right now.
And then in their next march, they'll say Trump is Hitler
while they are literally replacing the Nazi brown shirts in history right now.
And I'm about to cut this clip a little short for this compilation,
but for 10 minutes, they surrounded me and chanted at me
just because I was there, because I represented their enemy.
I didn't do anything.
It's just I had an NRA hat on and an info-war shirt.
So then they project all of their hatred onto me
because I represent what they think is their enemy,
even though I'm not their enemy.
They always got to block the sign.
Look at this. They always block it.
Look at this.
See? Look at this.
Hey, why are you anti-free speech?
I'm not anti-free speech.
In fact, I'm very much for free speech.
So why are you blocking my camera?
Because you are anti-free speech.
No, I'm not anti-free speech.
What I'm against is you all and you're spreading of misinformation.
Me calm down? How have I not been calm?
You were just screaming at the top of your lungs, dude.
Maybe you should calm down.
Hey, do you know what the Nazi brown shirts were?
I'm not sure if this guy works for Russia.
Me? No, no, no.
The Nazi brown shirts.
If you're going to be a cop, you're going to get slayed.
All right? I mean, you know.
Do you know the Nazi brown shirts marched to turn the guns into?
Did you know that?
Can you not do this?
Can you not?
Well, I have a free speech, right?
Do I have the right to free speech?
I think we should engage, actually.
Is your free speech more important?
No, I think free speech is the most important thing,
and that's how we protect lives.
Fake attention.
Y'all are giving me all the attention.
Well, that's sad that he's being brainwashed
to believing this about guns.
Dude, y'all came up and talked to me.
Tell me why you think gun control is the answer.
It's a conversation.
That's not what we're here to talk about.
So what are we here to talk about?
These kids and what they're protesting against,
and we're here to support them.
What are they protesting?
We should talk to one of them.
All right, what are you protesting today?
You have to be 200 feet away from this.
What are you guys protesting today?
You have to be 200 feet away.
Can you just answer my question?
What are you protesting?
Can't answer.
And then the organizer comes over and says,
don't talk to him for a while.
Nobody can tell me what they're marching for.
What are they marching for?
And this is where it gets insane.
This is where it gets insane.
Enough is enough.
So I just defeated all of them intellectually
and made them all look like total patsies.
And so what is their response?
To start chanting at me and surround me in a circle
after they can't even tell me why they're there.
Now, this is a short clip.
They did this for 10 minutes, folks.
Watch the whole video.
They all surround me and chant at me
as if I'm the enemy.
They couldn't even answer the simple question,
why are you protesting?
Why are you marching?
Of course, they're really marching
because they can't accept the results of the election.
And they just use a bunch of different arguments
to complain about the election.
Did we lose audio here, guys?
Oh, there we go.
The youth gets brainwashed like this.
That happened to me, too.
I used to feel the same way as these kids
and I researched history and I found out
that gun control is not the answer.
Oh, my God!
Yeah, see, they laugh because they don't get taught history
and they think it's funny.
What's wrong with info wars?
Yeah, walk away.
Hey, what's wrong with info wars?
Yeah, take a picture.
Yeah, they all want to take a picture of me.
It's really this weird thing.
I'm like a bigfoot, right?
I'm like bigfoot.
I'm so rare.
I'm Bigfoot's ancestor.
Don't you want to interview me?
I'll tell you, the biggest thing is
there's a sign over here where they're glorifying the shooter.
Now, these are conservatives, well-spoken, good people.
I'm sorry, I'm talking.
I'm a volunteer with the organizers here.
They were asking people, as a condition,
if people agreed to come, not to speak to counter protesters.
And just to let you know, this is info wars.
You're the lady that blows fart noises at me.
No, I don't believe I am.
This is her!
Yeah, she denies it, even though we have the video.
Absolutely, we totally recognize that.
The organizers have asked that you not.
If you want to differ with them, please go ahead.
Wow, so they don't like the First Amendment either, do they?
Absolutely not.
Yeah, so you guys aren't allowed to speak,
and you're not allowed to have a gun,
so they just want you to be slaves, it sounds like.
Right, yeah.
See, if I even ask these girls a question, I'd be considered a bad person.
The fart whistle lady comes back here.
Even though I want to change their mind on America and gun violence.
Hey, you didn't bring your fart whistle out here today, what's up?
I'm not going to talk to you, leave me alone.
Come on, we missed the fart whistle.
We want the whistle.
Come on, we want the whistle.
Show the b-roll if I want the whistle.
Can we get the b-roll?
Come on, come on, come on, come on.
We just want the fart whistle.
There she is, there she is with the fart whistle.
She denies she does it, and then we have the video.
I mean, literally, we have the video,
multiple videos of her blowing fart whistles,
and she says, nope, that's not me.
These people are cold-hearted liars, folks.
They'll lie right to your face.
Oh, she's back, she's back.
Don't talk to info wars.
Hey, why are you stopping my right to free speech?
Go away.
And she's out there as a quote-unquote organizer,
stopping people from engaging in conversation with me.
You realize you're a cult leader?
How does it feel to be a cult leader?
We have a distraction here today.
How does it feel to be a cult leader?
How does it feel to be a cult minion?
Don't touch me.
How does it feel to be a cult minion?
Dude, she's the one following me around,
so why don't you see what's going on before you make a comment?
What's wrong with info wars?
That's not very nice.
So-
Right in front of their children.
You guys don't put a very good face to your name right here.
Here's the fart whistle.
Your whole march looks bad now.
Says it's not her.
We have you on tape.
Yeah, don't talk to me.
I can't hold a conversation with you,
oh, inshroyer, from info wars.
We're not smart enough.
We don't even know what we're out here doing.
That's info wars.
Oh, why?
God, you guys suck.
Here, I'll give you one more chance.
Tell me why you're out here marching.
Or tell me why info wars is bad.
Go ahead.
Well, I'm coming to the real news.
Thank you.
Yeah, so you can't answer the question.
The organizers here, and I just want to let you know this.
There she is again.
Jones's news organization.
The organizers did ask people not to engage with counter protesters
and the alt-right media.
So you definitely have an excuse to just say interviews over if you wish,
but you're also welcome to keep talking.
So you're going to let her control you like a cult leader?
I am happy to talk to you about Hillary.
She's a cult leader.
She's out here stopping people from having free speech.
So there you go, folks.
The full video will be on the Alex Jones channel.
We've got more.
I mean, it's just insane.
These people are in a cult.
They hate free speech.
They hate the Second Amendment.
They want to be slaves.
You stay classy, info warriors.
I don't know if that's the only way we can go back.
We just have to act.
We have to have a moral strategy.
We have to take over our whole country,
we have to be homophobia and homophobia to smash windows,
burn cars, shut down interstates and airports,
bully and terrorize the law abiding,
until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs
and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country
I'm the National Rifle Association of America, and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infostore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for children
and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and
they're coming back against us so we need your support.
