Ladies and gentlemen, we are broadcasting worldwide on this Thursday, the 5th day of
April 2018 and the Infowar is in high gear and very proud of the fact that we are the
most hated, derided, lied about, demonized broadcast in the world by globalist, by criminals,
by communists, by Nazi collaborators, by failing media empires and by every other form of degenerate
child molester you can imagine. I am on cloud nine right now and you've seen a lot of globalist
disinfo and operations the last few weeks. Well, starting next week, the rebellion strikes back.
So things are going very, very well. Doesn't mean we're not in the fight of our lives. We've got
to be focused. Eye of the tiger got to be committed. But if we're committed, we take action. We
can't lose with God's help. Notice you're not hearing about the tragic YouTube shooting anymore
a day and a half after it happened because it was a leftist just pull side tidbit. Look at this
headline Twitter transgender critic questioned by police and banned from leaving the UK for saying
there's two genders and his child abuse to take young children out of the country and have them
castrated. Yes, you cannot make that up. Meanwhile, London's hospitals look like war zones due to
gun and knife crime epidemic. City Khan responds, blames the Tories for not banning knives. Meanwhile,
78 year old man arrested for murder after stabbing arm burglar to death in his home. That's right,
arm burglar in your house. You fight back. You go to prison in the UK, which is a
anti free speech authoritarian hellhole. And the legislature, the parliament needs to move
to remove this, ladies and gentlemen, it needs to be done ASAP. Now that said, Trump signs
proclamation, sending National Guard to the Mexico border immediately. Oh, all you folks that
flipped out about DACA. He was trying to be reasonable. Like you said during the campaign,
since we're 40 year old guys have been deported three or four times and at a criminal record,
you're gone. Yeah. Okay, you really been here 20 years and you got a job. You're on a criminal.
Yeah, we'll fast track you. Absolutely. We'll make you a citizen. Democrats make it too hard to
make those folks citizens. I think we should make it easier for law abiding people that work and
have a record of working to become citizens. But the Democrats want to make you a permanent
underclass. Meanwhile, the big news, caravan disbands for Trump, deploys military to the border.
But turns out they're actually now reconstituting it was a faint. 50 plus thousands stopped
at Mexican border last month alone up 203% from March of last year. So the numbers are big.
And the board patrol is is completely outgunned. This is a collapse in Latin America, in Central
and South America. Just pouring up. It is just a nightmare scenario for everybody involved.
We'll get swamped if we take them all. They're there in hell. It's just a real bad situation.
More than a million undocumented immigrants have received California driver's license, Sacramento
B. And under California law, that lets them vote. Of course, the Democrats say they want
them to vote. And Obama famously said in 2016, Oh, if you live here, it's your duty to go
vote. He said, if you live here, you're a citizen. Yeah, Mexico starts giving caravan
migrants transit visas. But don't worry, Robert De Niro slams the NRA things in our country
are so bad and it comes from Trump. Yeah, stock market still up 2 million new jobs, lowest
unemployment level, biggest startup for new businesses. All sorts of great things happening.
That's just terrible. Another virtue signaling individual, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely
disgusting. So that's just some of the news we're covered on that front. And then of course,
the really big news that's out of control is so serious. Democrats across the country
are moving and some areas passing laws to confiscate all semi autos and then find you
$1,000 a day when you don't turn them in. So it's all coming up. And of course, it's
in states like Illinois, where they have the firearm owner registration guard. So they
know what you got and right where to come. So we always say do not register because register
everywhere is the next step to what the C word and it didn't cookie for cookie monster.
It's confiscation. Get ready for Alex Jones to invade the swamp. Jones is set to give
a speech at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. on April 10, during which he'll make
a statement on the raft of anti free speech lawsuits targeting his First Amendment rights.
Numerous lawsuits have been launched on the premise of attracting media attention and
defaming Alex Jones and Info Wars' reputation. Jones will address the left's new tactic
of trying to bury Info Wars under a deluge of lawsuits, several of which do not rest
on any sound legal basis. While the mainstream media and many on the left routinely celebrate
these lawsuits when they're first filed, those same people are noticeably silent when the
lawsuits collapse. These lawsuits are yet another attempt to shut down free speech and
they are doomed to fail. Alex Jones will go live at 9 a.m. Eastern from the National Press
Club in Washington, D.C. You can find live streams of the press conference at infowars.com.
Leigh-Anne McAdoo, InfoWars.com.
If you want to know the spirit that dominates the U.K., Europe and the United States, Australia,
New Zealand, Canada to a great extent, it's a spirit of conformity, a spirit of cowardice,
a spirit of being bullied by the political correct gods. All the time I've seen news
reports about why has this particular pop star not criticized Trump yet? Why are they
keeping their mouth shut? Are they racist? Are they bad? Are they evil? You've seen
that with a lot of people and then suddenly you'll see that individual come out and start
attacking Trump. That hasn't happened with the number one star in the world, Taylor Swift
yet, but boy, they are putting the pressure on her. But I remember a few months ago I
saw a few articles about where's Mike Myers now? And why hasn't Mike Myers come out and
attack Trump? Well, you know, some of the other late night hosts, they almost lost their
jobs remember because they weren't attacking Trump enough, but now they are. And so sure
enough this morning I was scrolling through the news and I saw Mike Myers playing Dr.
Evil and talking about how I'm an advisor to the presidents and we're helping make America
evil again. And it's not even funny. So he came out of retirement. I guess he owns like
a hockey team and something else. He came out of retirement, not been seen in years
to bash Trump so they get off his back. And I've talked to folks in Hollywood that they
get told you come out against Trump or you're not going to work again. James Woods, one
of the top actors in Hollywood, made hundreds of millions of dollars, just so many top films,
incredible actor. When he decided to go ahead and go public for America and for Trump, they
told him you will never work again. So the headline, if you want to go watch it is Dr.
Evil gets fired from the Trump cabinet. We're going to play excerpts of it later. And it's
not our top story. It just is an illustrative piece to show how pathetic these folks are.
And since we're at this point, I got a ton of incredible breaking news, gun confiscation
from the beginning in some areas, just so important. Trump deploying trips to the border.
He's now officially signed the order. We've got the latest developments there. But since
I mentioned Dr. Evil, let's talk about the real Dr. Evil. We've played these clips before
from 60 minutes back in 1999 with George Soros. But I thought we would just go ahead and play
it without even the graphics of the death camps and scary music. I thought we'd just
play the clips themselves and then cut right into the last few months, Anderson Cooper,
Sink, Uggur of the Young Turks named after a genocide group that killed a million and
a half Christians. I mean, that's a fact. Just like David Hogg on his Reddit says,
I want to see billions die. Thank God mosquitoes are killing people. That's what they're all
into. And George Soros meets with the big eugenics organizations, David Rockefeller,
Ted Turner, Bill and London Gates. And it was in the Wall Street Journal, the New York
Times, that oh, they wanted the public to know it. She's a secret meeting, but they
want to depopulate the planet through a world government. And then famously Bill Gates gets
up in front of teachers and says that he gets up on Ted TV. Because we can show Soros as
a caricature and make fun of him, but actually looking at his actions and just real photos
of him is more frightening. So we've got the real Dr. Evil who they admitted the last James
Bond movie is based on him. It's even named after his company, the Quantum Group, who's
a private corporate guy that's really behind Spectre and behind the terror groups and trying
to get Russia in the U.S. in a war. I mean, they really told you and they admit that British
intelligence, MI6, good factions of it helped write the last script that was in the news
and that they don't like George Soros for trying to crash the pound repeatedly and almost
bringing the UK down. So that movie is a statement about it. I guess now it's two films back.
So Hillary is his minion. So when we talk about real Dr. Evil here, ladies and gentlemen,
it's him and what he does and his family and his son, the documents came out where they're
funding Antifa to engage in violent riots, criminal activity, how they work with blue
state police, blue city police, blue state areas to then let them attack and burn and
corral crowds into them so they can attack them. Those documents came out what three
months ago, no news coverage of it. Just like five years ago, we broke the Stingray documents
nationwide from DC to Washington state and exactly how they work. But AP, they're saying
is might get a Pulitzer prize for their report about it two days ago. So let's go ahead now
and play the clip that Soros doesn't want you to hear. He thought he would just somehow
sell us on this idea. And then you've got the young turds and you've got Anderson Cooper
following behind him like he's a dog going to the bathroom on the sidewalk trying to
pick it up for him. Here it is. My understanding is, is that you went out with this protector
of yours who swore that you were his adopted god son. Yes, yes. Went out in fact and helped
in the confiscation of property from the Jews. That's right. Yes. Was it difficult? Not at
all. Not at all. Maybe as a child, you don't, you don't see the connection. But it was,
it created no, no problem at all. No feeling of guilt? No. It was actually probably the
happiest year of my life, that year of German occupation. For me, it was a very positive
experience. It's a strange thing, you know, because you see incredible suffering around
you and in fact you are in considerable danger yourself. But you're 14 years old and you
don't believe that it can actually touch you. You have a belief in yourself, your belief
in your father. It's a very happy making, exhilarating experience.
George Soros is one of those people that actually helps, you know, back these individuals. Who
is he? I think he's from Hungary. I think he was Jewish and I think he turned in his
own people to the Nazis. Do you think George Soros funded the neo-Nazis who marched in
Charlottesville? Wouldn't it be interesting to find out?
His conspiracy theories were first spread by radio talk show host Alex Jones. The idea
also that the way that congressman is saying is like, well, we're learning this or, you
know, we're finding this out as if it's sort of the full weight of his office or the U.S.
Congress when in fact it seems like he's just getting stuff from Alex Jones. That seems
to be where the news is coming from. Alex Jones claims to have sources all throughout
the government, but George Soros did not fund these people. What he's saying is not true.
He's deeply anti-Semitic. Now, why do I say that? For a number of reasons, he has attacked
George Soros over and over again with references to his background. He attacked Michael Wolfe
who wrote the book about Donald Trump. They both happen to be Jewish. You'll see it in
a second as well. It says that Soros worked with the Nazis. It's just like, do you say
someone who, I don't know if you know, Soros survived the Holocaust. Alex Jones, the worst
guy on earth. He called George Soros a Nazi collaborator. Of course that's not true.
Of course he's done it. And Soros was a kid at the time. The guy survives the Holocaust.
And this clown, and I'm trying not to use worse words against him, but he has more
than earned it, then turns around and calls a Holocaust survivor and Nazi collaborator.
And you're named your organization off the young Turks who were the brown shirts that
carried out the extermination of a million and a half Christians and your program is
anti-Christian. We get it. That's what the globalists are all about. Hating flyover
country. They hate me because I'm Americana. They hate you because you're Americana. That's
it. They hate us. Accept it. Know it. He wrote a book. His dad wrote a book. They helped
round up for years. Over a thousand Jews and steal their money with the Nazis. It's well
known the Nazis would recruit Jews that would work with them to help round people up. That's
a fact. Poland talked about that and Netanyahu flipped out on them. I'm not against Netanyahu,
but Netanyahu gets your history straight. Poland is right. There are a lot of people
like Soros that help round up other Jews. They're called Judas Goats.
ID stronghold wallets are different. They may look the same on the outside. They're stylish.
They'll hold your cards in cash, but they're hiding something great on the inside. No,
there are no pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open them, but it does have magical
powers. ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves
standing right next to you. Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your
information just by walking past you. Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work
ID badge. ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology. Over 12 years ago,
ID strongholds wallets, sleeves and badge holders are trusted by the U.S. military and the executive
office of the president. Something the competitors can't say. Secure your identity and save 10%
by using coupon code magic at checkout for a limited time at idstronghold.com. ID stronghold.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose
from 3 health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's
libertyoncall.org.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified
water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. Poor
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com. We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans. We have
now managed to secure these sought after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives
you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other
coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years
to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order
a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original
or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press all the
while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com.
InfoWarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable
tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
I'm going to be announcing two lawsuits next week against enemies of the Republic, enemies
of free speech and then eight more the next month after that. So all you folks that sent
me letters asking for money, you're going to get sued for big money. We're coming after
you. We're going to win. So all you folks licking your lips out there that got induced
to sign on to all these fake lawsuits against us, you got all the top law firms look at
it. Even the Daily Beast says this is very dangerous for the Democrats and they've opened
themselves up to millions in real damages. So bon appetit. You think you're going to
destroy our First Amendment? Get ready. I'm not some knuckle-dagger looking for money
and not looking for a fight. I'm looking to defend the Second Amendment, the First Amendment
and the whole nine yards. So you want to fight? Better believe you got one. You know, playing
that George Soros clip last segment of him talking about how much he enjoyed rounding
up Jews and how invigorating it was and how it formed his character. It was so dangerous.
That's why he's so ruthless and crazy. If you're 14, 15, 16 and then not just during
the Nazi occupation, but after they were involved when the Soviets came in and all that corruption,
making hundreds of millions of dollars involved in different scams and different criminal
activities and then you do it all over Europe and all over America and you're involved
in every form of corruption under the sun. He was known as a supervillain in the 1980s
when my mom would watch Lair News Hour. George Soros attempted to crash the pound of the
day. George Soros attempted to crash the Argentinian. George Soros successfully crashed this, you
know, causing millions to build bankrupt. I mean, there are countries that never recovered
after him. And by the mid-90s, it was like controversial figure, George Soros. But by
the 2000s, the angel, the baby cake, the sweetie pie. And that's what's crazy is CNN, MSNBC,
the young turds, all of it. Why, George Soros doesn't fund any Antifa. And we have all the
documents where his son running an organization funds them to riot. Can we pull that article
up? Documents Obama planned, civil emergency in Maryland, martial law, and then it's the
Soros group, his son Alexander, and family quarterbacking. And those are real documents.
They never said they weren't. We made phone calls, called the FBI, you name it, and they
said, no, those are real documents. And people are just waiting for Trump to move against
them on stuff like that. It's incredible. So we pull that article up. It was the exact
headline. It was, I don't think it was a Don Salazar wrote the article. There's a video
I did on it. Soros funded Antifa in Maryland. Soros funded plans for riots in Maryland.
Soros planned to trigger civil war caused by race riots, and it's got 20-something pages
of the documents, how they work with the police, the whole thing. I bet I can find it. Gotta
click web to find it, though. Let's go to a clip while we find that. Let's go ahead and
there it is. Oh, thank God. I'm so OCD now. I had to have a thank you. Oh, good. It used
to be OCD. I've developed it when it comes to documents and articles. Great job, crew.
Documents to tell plan for civil unrest and martial law in Baltimore. Leaked documents
purport to show, and now they're confirmed, detailed plan to trigger nationwide unrest,
allowing Obama to declare martial law. And that's what we surmised at the time, because
the Justice Department got caught in Florida, in Maryland, and all over financing it. And
if you scroll down to the documents, it explains how they basically fund people, how they train
as actors. Doesn't mean they're actors in the street, but that's what the police even
in training call it. Your role is this, your role is that. And you've got their Action
BW10418, 2015, Final Operation Order Summary, Friends of Democracy, Confidential. And the
brother of this other guy's brother that ended up in some trouble, gave us the documents.
And folks, if you've got family that's been in Antifa and they're in prison or they committed
suicide or whatever, or drug overdose, it is critical that you get those documents and
mail them to us, because that's why they fear info wars and want it taken down. We get the
right documents, it could blow the Death Star. I mean, they know they sit there every day
with sweat running down their foreheads, knowing that I'm sitting here with sweat running down
my forehead, not because I'm nervous, but because I'm so fired up half the time that
I start sweating in here when it's 68 degrees. By the way, I can be sitting in the hot sun
and barely sweat, but when my brain starts going, I get in a very aggressive mode to
start sweating, because this is real. And I sit here and I start looking at the things
they've done, the things that have been involved in, it makes me angry. We have a new article
about all those documents are confirmed media blackout on that media blackout on David Hogg
almost a week later and him wanting billions to die. I mean, this is sensational information.
All right, when we come back, stop linked on drudgerport.com sex workers to expose politicians
for passing anti trafficking bill. I will also look at what's really in the WikiLeaks.
They always distract us with who leaked them. And that was exactly the big issue and all
this garbage that Roger stones the Russian agent, but let's kind of look back on what's
in the WikiLeaks and then video. It's up on info wars.com deranged Texas Councilwoman
Huston charge for verbally attacking teenage girl in Trump shirt disturbing his peace screaming
yelling frothing. And this is what happens when you wear a Trump shirt and now it's expanding
to pro gun shirts. Well, I'm not letting these people intimidate me. I think it's more important
people start wearing make America great shirts in four shirts and get the same thing in these
areas. And then we go around in groups just to let them know just like open carry that
we're not going to be intimidated by their deranged activity. So that's Steve Watson
article. That's coming up. All right. First off though, we have some huge announcements
that are very, very exciting. These specials are all about to end alpha power back in stock
25% off premium info wars life, select high quality storeable foods $100 off the four
weeks supply. No one can top that mind and body challenge pack brain force plus and
red pill. They still haven't done that special. That's got to go for selling out of both
those. That's 50% off and free shipping sell for 50% off. That's about to end bodies ultimate
turmeric form on 25% off back in stock immune gargling. Now just have the one ounce. We
have 3.4 and 16 ounce bottles together 50% off or individually 25% off Alexa pure breeze
$50 off double Patriot points. That's the big one until the end of the month. Normally
it's 5% just like frequent flyer miles. Anything you buy, it's free to sign up at info warshore.com.
You have your own account. It's 5% off all the other specials. But this month to celebrate
Patriots Day coming up on the 16th throughout the rest of the month of April. Tim first
day just thought of this yesterday. We are going to give you double Patriot points. That's
10% off. So you sign up for auto ship or like coffee or supplements, things you're going
to be reordering. And you get an additional 10% off. That's 20% off. And then you've got
all the other specials. A lot of things become lost leaders when you use the Patriot points,
especially this month when they're double 10% off your future purchase. So something
cost you know $10. That's going to be a dollar off the next purchase with the Patriot points.
It's amazing free shipping $50 or more info warshore.com and you stand up to Nazi collaborator
bully dirt bags like George Soros. Damn him to hell.
Call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winner's
Son, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winner's Son is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional
supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known
as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins
and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research
and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Son vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin
D supports our memory and brain function. Something the globalists are targeting. Visit infowars.com
today or call 888-253-3139. Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and
being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well. And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to
say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for
the Anthroplex, too. Thank you. I use the Biotru Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste
for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The Super Blue is awesome. And thank
you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products. They are quality. I can't wait to
get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
We, because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in
order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal
helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your
muscles. Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates,
so you can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore
by InfoWars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. From the front lines of the Information War, it's
Alex Jones. I'm going to get off the George Soros kick. Now he's got PR firms and others
out there saying he was never working for the Nazis. He was never a collaborator. Even
when his father wrote a book, he wrote a book. He's given countless articles, radio interviews,
TV interviews. In the mid- and late-90s admitting it, but saying he was proud of it, best time
of his life, he filled an economic void. Someone else would have done it if he didn't. That
taught him how to be ruthless. It's the most cold-blooded group of interviews I've ever
heard. Even Nazis in Nuremberg didn't talk like that. They said they were sorry. But
not Soros, he's not sorry. And then he has people like Sink and others through different
foundations he's given money to, reportedly, saying that I'm the worst guy in the world
and that I'm just nose-diving because I'll talk about their God. That is true evil in
my view. Now, I was just in the coffee room getting a cup of Joe's. I forgot to have one
this morning. That's how much energy I've got. I'm bounced off the walls with no coffee,
but I wanted some. And I was watching Fox News. They were playing a clip of Zuckerberg
that we already had, and it reminded me that we had the clip. He's like, oh, you can pretty
much be assured that we did scrape your data. And everybody's hearing Scrap. They went,
oh, they got rid of your data. No, they never get rid of it. It's in the terms of service.
They use it. They share it, whether it's Samsung or whether it's Apple or whether it's Sharp
or whether it's Microsoft or whether all of these companies now in their terms of service
tell you, they watch you in your house. They listen to you with AI. They sell all the data.
It's incredibly valuable. You, like the folks in Troy, brought in the Trojan horse. We
don't know in history if the Trojan horse is legend or real. We know there was a Trojan
war at that time, but we do know these are Trojan horses, don't we? Web scraping. Let's
let's define it. Scraping. Web harvesting or web data extraction, usually with a spider,
is data scraping used for extracting data from websites while web scraping can be done
manually by software user. The term typically refers to automated process in a minute using
a bot or web crawler. Now, I remember in high school, they were teaching us about the internet
in the computer class and I learned all about scraping and they called them spiders and
crawlers. I mean, I'm not a tech guy. I just read the tech journals. And the internet was
set up to do this. Google is an NSA spy tool from the 80s. Set up by NQTEL, the Geospatial
Center. It's run by Space Command. Google is the U.S. government with a private offshoot
that's controlled by the leftist and the globalist. You notice, Smith's had to resign. All the
rest that's happening now is there's a war inside Google and that's why Steve Pacenek,
people say, are you with the CIA or they were CIA? No, I'm not with any of that. I'm with
the free market in America and freedom. But Pacenek said that day before my YouTube channel
was put back up, the strikes taken off. He said, I've talked to people upstairs inside
the agency and you will have your strike back by tomorrow. This will not be tolerated. You
did not do what they say and the Google will not be authoritarian. It was set up to defend
the Republic and promote our values worldwide. And that's really what went on. And that is
it. So they had all the Soros people that got hired and all the Southern Barber Law Center,
10,000 of them brought in. Think about how Twilight Zone, they start taking everything
down. YouTube goes, oh, it's not us. Sorry. But it was other executives mid-level being
mutinous. And now reportedly more than 100 executives are out of Google. Trump's telling
them, you stop it right now or I'm going to break you up and they can't stop. They can't
stop. They can't stop. They can't stop. They can't stop. They can't stop. Any more than
a city councilwoman walks up and starts screaming at and grabbing at the hat of a little girl
wearing a make America great hat in Houston. I'll walk down the street and a woman with
little kids will go F you, you piece of crap Russian and start coming out and their husband
will drag them back. My daughters were up in Connecticut after we went skiing for a week.
Their mom took them skiing. Probably been a better place they went to. You go to Colorado.
It's like you're at 10,000 feet. You got to Connecticut. You're at 2,000 and it's just
as nice. Anyways, and my 10 year old daughter's up there and she's talking to this other girl
and the dad finds out they say, oh, Texas blah, blah, blah. She said, yeah, my dad's
Alex Jones. He began screaming at her and getting in her face as if it's my fault then
when it gets fun that they're deranged that full grown men bully little girls. These people
are out of control, but I'm digressing here, ladies and gentlemen. They're all been spying
on you. I told you exactly how they've been spying on you. It came out congressional
hearings 17, 18 years ago. The telecommunications act set all this up and legalized it just
like Obama signed those executive orders before he left letting Google starting last November
a year and a half ago. November 2016, right after Trump won, he signed all those directives
where they can discriminate against conservatives, libertarians, you name it. And that's when
Facebook suddenly started listing in your control panel, are you a conservative? Are
you a liberal? Are you labeling you like Nazi Germany? You know how dangerous that is? For
advertisers. When a lot of people that call themselves Trump supporters are not conservatives.
They just don't like Hillary Clinton and her crime network. So that's what this has gotten
to. And just like they have the PR firms out there telling you Soros in the Nazi, it's
the same thing. We're trying to confuse it like, well, does Facebook really look at your
data? Does Google? They started all this Cambridge Analytica thing thinking they could just burn
Trump for publicly scraping some stuff to try to contact conservatives on Facebook.
Cambridge Analytica does a lot of illegal stuff. It's come out for whoever will hire
them, Democrats, Republicans, dictators and third world countries. You know, it's just
another big computer company outlet. But the fact that Democrats thought they could compartmentalize
and only burn that area, it brought down their whole house of cards. They're so stupid. Can't
put the genie back in the bottle, Bob. As I said, the day it broke, I predicted it all
not because I'm a rocket scientist. I know how history works. I know how this stuff unfolds
and understand Trump's algorithm now and how he operates. And you can predict what Trump's
going to do, but these people walk into the trap every time. So let's go ahead and go
to that clip of old Zookie.
During today's disclosure and announcements, Facebook explained that the account recovery
and search tools using email and phone number could have been used to scrape information
about all of Facebook's users. When did Facebook find out about this scraping operation? And
if that was before a month ago, why did Facebook not inform the public about it immediately?
We looked into this and understood it more over the last few days as part of the audit
of our overall system. Again, they're trying to make when their whole business model is
tracking everything you do, giving it to everybody, selling it, letting third parties
come in. They're trying to all make it about one company again. And they just discovered
this last month. This is ridiculous. Continue that controls. It's right in your privacy settings
that controls whether people can look you up by your contact information. Most people
have that turned on and that's the default, but a lot of people have also turned it off.
So it's not quite everyone, but certainly the potential here would be that over the
period of time that this feature has been around people have been able to have been
able to scrape public information. If you have someone's phone number, you can put
that in and then you can get a link to their profile which pulls up public information.
So what they're doing is they're trying to conflate public scraping or spiders, web
crawlers, that's what search engines do, with what Google does having all the things you're
looking up and you're doing and scanning your private emails since Gmail started and
collating that data and listening to over the web microphone since 2006. They told shareholders
they were. We wrote about it and people couldn't believe it. They said, this is a lie. Jones
is insane. They're not using the web audio in your computer to listen to you. And it
also said in the press release to shareholders. And now we're having a pilot program to watch
them over the webcam. And they had an example. If a dog barks, we even though you're not
searching for dog food, we know to then direct advertisements for dogs. Oh, what a sweet little
thing. They're just listening about the dog. They're listening to you. And now ESPN goes,
hey, let's dial into somebody's smart TV and see what they're doing. Hey, look, there's
your parents. They're over there in Serbia watching now. I told you this 20 years ago
because I'm the bad guy. See. No, you get next decade's news today today, but it's a
double edged sword. The prostitutes have data as well. Get ready for Alex Jones to invade
the swamp. Jones is set to give a speech at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C.
on April 10th, during which he'll make a statement on the raft of anti free speech lawsuits targeting
his First Amendment rights. Numerous lawsuits have been launched on the premise of attracting
media attention and defaming Alex Jones and Info Wars' reputation. Jones will address
the left's new tactic of trying to bury Info Wars under a deluge of lawsuits, several of
which do not rest on any sound legal basis. While the mainstream media and many on the
left routinely celebrate these lawsuits when they're first filed, those same people are
noticeably silent when the lawsuits collapse. These lawsuits are yet another attempt to
shut down free speech and they are doomed to fail. Alex Jones will go live at 9 a.m.
Eastern from the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. You can find live streams of the press
conference at infowars.com. Leigh-Anne McAdoo, InfoWars.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it
in Full Wars Live. It'd take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes
great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super
blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement
with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowars.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so essential to spread
the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense
Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360
win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year. And now
we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future
of this country and the world that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused
as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and
your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies
with Z Shield and infowarslife.com. Info wars life brain force plus is our number one selling
product by leaps and bounds and for a good reason. Going back about five years ago, we
did research on what top selling new tropics were, what were most popular, what were best,
what people liked and we made it even stronger. Then we cut the price because leading competitors
have five to seven times markup. We only have 150%. Then it helps funder operation. Well,
now it's 50% off. That means we've got a 25% markup and we've got it paired with the real
red pill that takes about seven days to kick in brain force takes about 30 minutes, but
the two go together. It's the mind and body challenge. They're both 50% off individually
or together they're 50% off and free shipping with the combo and infowarslife.com. But it's
got to end in a couple of days because both of these best sellers are about to sell out
infowarslife.com to get your brain force plus and real red pill today. You're listening
to the Alex Jones show.
Yeah, Trump just signed the order deploying troops instantly to the border, actually constitutional.
Yes, that means hell's freezing over. But don't worry, Mueller's looking into Russian
oligarchs now and looking into the United Arab Emirates and looking into Canadian deals
and looking into stuff 20 years ago and just still can't find anything. Doesn't know what
to do. He's got a few of his informants they put in the Trump campaign, very low level
who they are doing a little fake, you know, one month sentencing stuff on them and other
things so they can not everybody know that they were little super canaries put in there
who found nothing because there was nothing. Roger Stone's joining us in the third hour.
I'm sick of the whole Russian thing like you are, but I want to go back over the WikiLeaks,
the top 100 things that are in there because look at how they've singallied or misdirected
again with a magic trick. It's not the hundreds of thousands of emails and Alistair Crowley
rituals and fixing the debates and giving Hillary the questions or Hillary and her people
talking to CNN, MSNBC, the New York Times, the Washington Post, the LA Times every day
having daily meetings with Google. How exhausting is this? You asked how Strock and his girlfriend
had something like 50,000 messages to each other in two years. These people are just
like typing away to each other. It's insane. They're like maniacs and when you pull back
from it, they have hoisted themselves on their own petard. They've dug their own pit for
themselves and at the same time though, just like they've gone, oh, everybody publicly
has spiders and webcrawlers. We didn't do anything at Facebook. No, you just use everybody's
personal data and sold it and let groups in 5,000 times worse than anything Analytica
ever thought of over in Cambridge. And you just hope everybody's such country bumpkins
that we don't figure it out. It's like my lawyers looking at all these fake lawsuits
with my father like, we've never seen anything like this where it's like 60, 70, 80 pages
of lies about you. None of it's even true. The exhibits aren't even right. It's not
even your website. We did do our attraction. We did pull it the day of the event. None
of that's true. The slapback provision means we could have all these attorneys fees and
then get them for all those and then damages and even lawyers tell the Daily Beast, man,
you really screwed up. What are you doing? These lawsuits and they don't care because
I think they think I write to work on a horse. I'm like, oh my God, I'm getting sued by another
Hillary Clinton law for what am I going to do? She sucks. I better shut down and go away.
They say they said they're going to come after me if I don't go away and then put my tail
between my legs. I didn't know the globalists were bad, mean people. Why, they just threatened
me. I better go away. I'm scared. Yeah. Your fools, fools, idiots have no idea. And the
people that really don't know what they're doing are the plaintiffs that they've jacked
up to do this. But after all of your running around wearing a hammer and sickle t-shirt,
you're a grown man. And that tells you a lot, doesn't it? Hammer and Sickle's got 200 plus
million deaths under its belt. I mean, that's the symbol of pure death, the red terror right
out of the globalist loins. I have Communist Party USA suing me in Cleveland. I have a
guy wearing a communist shirt suing me here in Austin. It's just, it's like, you know
a man buys enemies, don't you folks? So what can I say, my friends? I came to fight bullies
and well, they found me and I think they're used to messing with people that aren't here
to fight. I came to fight. Once the fight starts, I don't have any butterflies. I don't have
any anxiety. Once the crocodiles y'all start brain turns off, fight mode kicks in and then
the winning starts happening like it always does with you guys. You always pick a fight
with the good guys and you always can't believe what happens when they stand up and then the
begging for mommy always kicks in. I don't know why they always beg for mommy. They always
beg for their mommies. They always cry when their head metaphorically is bouncing off
the concrete. I don't know why, but that's antipathoria, little scrubly creatures running
around delusionally beating up men, women and children. We're fighting fascism by beating
people and committing arson. So here we are talking about Antifa in the general. Let me
just get into the big news here because it's not just Antifa going around beating people
up deranged Texas councilwoman charged for verbally attacking teenage girl in Trump
shirt. Let's go ahead and go to the Houston TV station with the report on a deranged liberal
in Texas. So flipped out their little bully bases. Houston's now blue that they think
you're not going to make America great again. This is the hatred of America. Here it is.
Tonight a teenage girl tells us that one of our local council members screamed obscenities
because one of the girls with her was wearing this shirt. Now West University place councilwoman
Kelly Burke is being charged in the case. It was Saturday night at tiny's milk and cookies
for teenage girls buying cookies for kids at their church when a tall short haired blonde
woman came up to them and screamed at them. Grab them by the girls. That woman the family
later learned was West U councilwoman Kelly Burke and she wasn't finished. She yells it
again. At that point the girls are getting kind of scared and then the woman starts you
know going mega, mega, mega. Mega means make America great again. You see one of the girls
was wearing this Trump make America great again shirt. The girls left without a word.
They were scared. They were absolutely scared. My little girl essentially wanted to know
if this woman was going to hurt her. West U police referred the case to Harris County
which filed a disorderly conduct charge against the councilwoman who when we knocked at her
door asked what are you doing at my house. You know I were here at your house. She said
she had no idea because of the disorderly conduct charge. She said I'm putting my kids
to bed. Go away. Adults can't behave towards children like that. Period. I would be just
as angry if any parent said this to my child but as an elected official I mean I'll let
you know her voters handle this matter. But of course she then lied and said I don't know
what you're talking about. That's exactly how they act. It's like babies. They either
scream murder, criminal, communist, Russian, traitor. We're going to get you. You've seen
the videos all over the country and then they try to pour coffee on you or they attack
you or they go Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump stuff like that. It's like a three year old
attacking you and they love to go after women and children. I mean I had a couple of these
guys trying to start a fight with Rex. He's still a pretty big guy but they didn't start
the fight with me off the airplane. I'm getting the luggage. He's taking his luggage. He's
like 30 feet away and two grown men walk up and go one to throw down. Told you that story
just when we got back from Colorado three weeks ago. And then they said after your family,
there were my daughters and my wife and they looked at my family because they wanted to
say I don't have your kids. They always say that. I'm like, oh yeah, dude. And they just
F your family. In fact, he said that to Rex right there. I saw that by the time I got
my luggage was coming over. Just F your family. F your family. Because again, the globalists
have a religion. Even if they have kids, they hate your kids. They hate Christians. They
hate America. They hate, make America great again. It triggers them just like American
flags because they see it as the dominant culture. They see themselves as the counterculture.
They're the dominant culture. They're funded by the big banks. They're the globalists.
They're the problem. I haven't gotten the story linked on drugsreport.com yet, but I
will. It's an info wars.com Jamie White article. Sex workers who expose politicians for passing
anti-trafficking bill. We'll get to a bunch of other news. The gun confiscation beginning
should have led that with the broadcast, but I was so much more to get to towns all over
removing the confiscated assault weapons, find violators of $1,000 per day. Some have passed
the laws. That is coming up momentarily, ladies and gentlemen. But first, just briefly here,
we've got Patriot points in the month of April from 5% of your order to 10%. So with the regular
10%, you get off for auto ship on things you're going to order again, like coffee or supplements
or things like that. That's 20% on your next purchase with the 10% Patriot points and then
the 10% off auto ship. Plus all orders $50 or more free shipping and they haven't gotten
rid of the specialty yet. I'm not mad. They haven't. We're about to sell out of DNA force.
We're about to sell out of the brain force plus. We're about to sell out of brain force
plus. We're about to sell out of the real red pill in a few months, but brain force
plus will be sold out by next week at the rate of sales. That's still up there. 50% off
at Patriot points are free at checkout. I mean, it's free to sign up for the account
and then when you get your order, it just adds them on and that's going right now at
infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com. And we also have info wars, high quality, storeable
food, four week survival food plan is $100 off. No one can top that into the highest
quality. That is a huge special at infowarstore.com. Please stay with us. You deserve a deep restful
sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made from high quality
natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract
and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper
sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the
rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses
the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake
up refreshed and take on the day. Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you
deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye
to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Hey, how are you doing? Good brother. Just recently started using your products. Everything
you said about them is correct. Me and my wife both use a lot of them and it's made
a lot of changes in our lives here. Well thank you brother because it also funds our operation
but doing that I know I've got to have the highest quality. Super mill vitality was developed
to activate your body's own natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. We do
the super male and the super female vitality big changes a lot of energy we've gotten
off the cheap energy drinks energy shots they've got a ton of money there. Sourced from powerful
organic herbs harvested around the planet and then concentrated or maximum potency.
They want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff just cover that up for a
while but then burn you out in my experience whereas stuff that gets your glands naturally
going goes right to the source so it's pretty exciting and I love it. Visit infowarslife.com
today to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products from infowarslife.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex
Jones. You can run on for a long time run on for a long time run on for a long time
run on. I need to be judicious about this because the news is all so important I've
only skimmed over 10 or 15 articles I need to drill into some of these and then get even
deeper into the others but subversion dem governor rebels against Trump moving National
Guard to border. This is this is this is what we predicted with Matt Bracken a couple days
ago would end up happening and it all runs together so much is happening was Bracken
on yesterday no he was on the day before yesterday so he was on Tuesday and I had him on for
like an hour and we've got to have somebody go over the notes or scan through that audio
what we call chipmunk speed you know five times faster where I say I'm worried that
the Democrats will try to block the military going to the border and he concurred we've
already seen the subversion this addition in California and all they're doing is try
to have a border Mexico has a border if you're a felon and I got a bunch of criminal convictions
you're you're out of here and this is just spiraling out of control we're going to get
to that in the next segment I haven't gotten to this yet sex workers to expose politicians
for passing anti-travelling bill Twitter transgender critic question about police
banned from leaving the UK you got people being arrested for defending themselves in
the UK when their houses are being robbed has been famous cases of that there's new
ones these are just insane articles and I'm going to be a good boy when we come back in
the next segment and just go into all of them several of these I've I've already really
covered like I should but it's just crazy how the whole YouTube shooter thing went away
if it had been a right winger oh my god it would be you'd be seeing who the victims were
that were shot you'd be hearing from their families it would be the end of the world
it would be just all gun owners are to blame turning your guns but because this person
was passionate about fitness veganism with left-wing signs that's the LA Times and who
left major warning signs and of course the dad said I think she's violent I think she's
going to attack nothing was done what is it about these blue states where they just let
people run wild that are threatening folks I mean it's one thing if you said boy you
said that to my face I'll call you out the street kick your butt that's clearly figurative
like slapping somebody with a leather glove thrown on the gauntlet and people shouldn't
talk like that I shouldn't talk like that but I've said things like that before but
then the next day I've said I didn't mean that obviously I was mad that my dog died
that day and you know that's why I said that's about congressmanship and man the left they
ran around and said oh my god we need him arrested they called the state attorney general time
magazine called up federal prosecutors they said we want him arrested you're the one saying
hashtag hunt republicans democrat strategist on TV you're the one saying kill trump everywhere
and where the secret service visits your Madonna I want to blow up the White House I don't want
any harm on YouTube or on Google or on Twitter or on Facebook or against David Hogg I would
really hate for something to happen to him because that would turn him into a martyr
I'm doing this for my family in the information war and we're winning it's the globalist funding
ISIS in al Qaeda and getting violent and the Antifa attacked people with bike locks and
burning things and doing all this they only do it in blue cities where they control the
police and that's in the Antifa documents from George Horos's son's group that we covered
last hour think about how sensational that is that they are working with the police in
those areas to stand down some of the cops may be good but they're ordered to stand down
which I still says their election duty even if you're a low-level cop you do that and
then they go around and they are told how much to attack what to do what to break it's
why it's always the same simulation break a window knock out something burn and trash
can kind of simulate everything because it's all trying to get other people to commit crimes
the leftist are just Judas Goat leaders trying to get others to carry out an attack you
know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in Fuller's
life it take hours Michael ZX plus and now as a lower price it's stronger it's the other
equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the
real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor
to all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super
blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's
a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality
silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info
or store.com and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other
people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much
for being part of the second American Revolution.
We are live broadcasting worldwide kicking off the second hour of this global transmission.
I intend to open the phones up at the bottom of the hour on any of the subjects we've raised
any of the news items we've covered.
Long time callers first-time callers agree disagree 877-789 Alex 877-789-2539 877-789
Alex 877-789-2539 let's just start here we knew this was coming I predicted this with
Matt Bracken on Tuesday because it's just par for the course on the left coast subversion
governor rebels against Trump moving National Guard to the border but Trump has ways to
federalize the National Guard dot dot dot kit Daniels article needs to get out there
Oregon governor Kate Brown Democrat will refuse to deploy state National Guard troops to the
border if asked by President Trump if at real Donald Trump asked me to deploy Oregon Guard
troops Mexico border I will say no yeah there's just Mexican troops down there but that's
okay Brown tweeted as commander of Oregon's guard I'm deeply troubled by Trump's plan
to militarize our border well lady you don't have a say during national emergencies and
we're in one Brown's statement however is trivial and it also Eric is probably doesn't
even know our powers as governor but it's not a bully conservatives the president has
the power to federalize National Guard troops through a variety of ways such as 10 US code
252 use of militia and armed forces and force federal authority yeah you see how Eisenhower
had the National Guard looked a little black girls into the schools and Oklahoma and Arkansas
and Alabama those should pull up some photos of National Guard escorting little black girls
to school well the president considers that unlawful obstructions combinations or assemblages
or rebellion which is what California's in against the authority of the United States
make it impractical to enforce the laws of the United States in any state or the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings like a court order little black kids in he may call into
federal service such as a militia at any state and use such of the armed forces as he considers
necessary to enforce the laws or to suppress the rebellion
and that's George Wallace for the state police yeah let's pull up the National Guard or federal
troops escort children for desegregation that's the ones I'm looking for now let's continue
here previous presidents have federalized the National Guard perhaps most famously when
president John of Kennedy did so to Alabama's National Guard during the integration of the
University of Alabama in 63 a move which took control away from Governor George Wallace
who we just showed an image of who had opposed the move well you've got a Soros globalist
UN illegal alien funded operation similar to the one carried out by the UN and Soros
and Sutherland that smashed in to Europe with 10 million military aged men who are running
around wreaking havoc imagine you're in small towns you know they got this wild wild country
hit show out and you watch in the program left this is pretty scary but you think about
that's a town the middle of nowhere in Alpine Oregon that had these Maharajee people come
in imagine Germany where there are towns of a couple hundred old retirees and I've seen
articles where they bring in 4,000 Muslims 80% of military aged men and then order people
to let them in their house same thing in Italy everywhere else I mean it is cuckoo nest level
but it's an invasion and to see what they get away with the globalist and the zodiac
boats hundreds of day hundred foot long ones literally hundreds and hundreds of day sixty
foot boats hundred foot black Zodiacs Soros publicly funds it the media is always like
Soros doesn't fund that Joe just says Soros Soros Soros no look it up and then Italy
finally said we've had enough it's killing tourism it's like a half billion came in
this year last year they said we're putting an Italian Navy out there to turn these back
at the hundred mile marker the 12 mile mark from them and boom it was on there it is German
town of a hundred yeah I show that that article and then we'll show the video German town
of a hundred gets enriched by 750 migrants but I saw one where it was 4,000 and the town
of like 200 and something yeah this is Spain famously invaded by North Africa it took the
crusades the evil crusades to kick them out they had about 80% of it and they sold reportedly
they think probably more during their couple hundred year occupation a large percentage
they estimate of the women into slavery all over the Middle East and all over Africa so
imagine your town gets grabbed the men get killed your boys get put as galley slaves
and your girls and your wife get shipped on a galley to be in a sultan's lair but you
wonder why North African rulers are part white you know why because they had children with
the kidnapped Spaniards the Spaniards were blonde haired blue-eyed until that invasion
hey whatever the color they are imagine you get invaded you get raped you get taken over
that is a form of total domination and that's what Islam did but you go to college they
go the West is evil for the crusades invading the Middle East the West never invaded the
Middle East until they drove all the way into Poland and all the way into Austria and finally
people said we've got to do something and so you have the retaking the Larica of Spain
okay I already read that article there it is I've got so many to get to that's just
one of them the subversion Trump signs proclamation sitting National Guard to the border 50,300
Nates stopped at Mexican border March alone up 230% or 203% from last year that's the huge
surge happening Mexico said they were disbanding it but the evidence is they aren't more than
a million undocumented immigrants have received California driver's license Sacramento be so
they can now vote it is incredible and it's all you in directed these people aren't even
our enemies but they're getting brainwashed is the problem so that's what's going on on
that front okay speaking of invasion London's hospitals look like war zones due to gun and
knife crime Westminster cons London spiral out of control cons response to knife crime
surge blames Tories London mayors responded to the city's growing crime wave and calls
for his resignation by once again blaming those on the political right as well as promoting
a hashtag on Twitter but don't worry 78 year old man arrested for murder at restabbing armed
burglar to death in his home he'd been robbed of course repeatedly was sick of it so fought
back and now he is the ultimate criminal and then that ties into when we return these little
giblets that I have been mentioning since we're on the subject of the UK Twitter transgender
critic questioned by police banned from leaving the UK and they admit they do this they admit
they block journalists from coming in journalists going out but if the UK thinks you're going
to go out of the country to go speak on a subject oh then they try to block you it is classic
authoritarianism that's coming up and then finally before I get to your phone calls report
sex workers to expose politicians for passing anti-travelling bill and then of course the
big fat super in shallota the big in shallota the gun confiscation has begun in democrat
controlled zones of the country but they hadn't already gotten the guns all semi autos to
be banned and $1,000 a day fines until you turn them all in Mr. and Mrs. America because
like the Supreme Court just said it's time to repeal the second amendment thanks for
being honest you authoritarian dirtbag face it today's electric power grid is more vulnerable
than ever from natural disasters to EMP attacks and hacking the grid could be crippled for
days or even decades in the most dire scenarios visit quantum harvest net to see our built
to last EMP protected solar power systems while millions suffer you'll have vital power for
water pumps refrigeration and sanitation now that's peace of mind EMP protected solar power
systems for every need and budget see our full range at quantum harvest net tired of being
censored by Facebook YouTube Twitter and patreon well now you don't have to be one way dot com
is the free speech and human friendly social network built just for you stop feeding the
beast every post you make on those evil anti-human anti-american perverted sites helps them destroy
our families our country and our souls join one way today and take back your liberty your
free speech alternative is waiting for you at one way dot com one way dot com hear that
that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place
and what they don't steal will be destroyed this year resolve not to be the next victim
of a break in go to fake TV dot com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone
inside is watching TV even when you're miles away security is a mindset and fake TV should
be part of your security solution be vigilant but not fearful fake TV dot com hunters anglers
campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality
most versatile unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com sling
bow products are compact and models start from just 1798 they're perfect for your bug
out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition
of sling bow a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival
tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com they use their media to assassinate real
news they use their schools to teach children that their president is another hitler they
use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative
over and over again and then they use their ex president to endorse the resistance all
to make them march make them protest make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia
and homophobia to smash windows burn cars shut down interstates and airports bully and
terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and
stop the madness and when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage the
only way we stop this the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this
violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth I'm the national rifle association of
America and I'm freedom's safest place introducing cell force by info wars life cell force focuses
on mitochondria efficiency and protection mitochondria produce over 95 percent of your
energy they are your body's cellular engines cell force helps promote your cellular energy
production by supporting mitochondria much like a cellular engine overhaul because when
your mitochondria don't run at 100 percent efficiency then they start producing reactive
oxygen species top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage resulting
from these reactive oxygen species the antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful
available on the market the stronger the antioxidant the better its ability to scavenge for these
reactive oxygen species and other free radicals boost protect and adapt with cell force from
info wars life head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139 you're listening to the
alex jones show live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones remember the globalists
want to capture the west uses an engine of total domination and like all degenerate
conquerors that are evil in history they seek to enslave the population into feudalism
so that there are no upstarts that challenge the rule they want to secure their realm with
a new dark age the alliance is the communist bloodthirsty chinese the most murderous in
history and their slaves under them under stockham syndrome radical islam the captured
vatican the e you globalist the hollywood scum and the cement that holds them together
is pedophilia there are other ties that bind but the real blood cement is hurting the innocent
and of that cornucopia of delights that they see it the hurting of children in the innocent
is the prime religion that's why christ said suffer the little ones unto me would be better
for you to kill yourself than to offend one of these
and one of the child mentally retarded children old people stupid people those that prey on
stupid people that stick their leg out so the autistic kid can trip that's kind of one
spectrum down at the bottom of the least worst stuff that grows into what real psychopaths
do and so you and I couldn't imagine torturing a five-year-old girl to death but boy with
them it's better than pumpkin pie but if they can abuse children out in the open and call
it medical or call it the rights then they can have the whole world the transhumanist
movement said how are we gonna get people to accept brain ships augmentation we're gonna
have these humanoids they're multiple fathers multiple mothers changed in and they won't
really be human we'll make it where we say they have rights and that no one can even
criticize the practice of the new transhuman movement that's what all this huxley brothers
julian huxley at the end of world war two shut down the world eugenics society changed
the name to the world transhumanist movement and then the taba stock institute the seventies
said we're gonna promote transgenderism everywhere and say pay for sex changes and that was something
in the eighties that only stuff happened in berkeley you pay for that you pay for the
abortion you pay and then now you've got to watch the procedure sometime it's on youtube
now they want to take children as young as six because the mothers and the fathers tell
them you're a little girl you're a little boy when they really have the chromosomes the
genitals another person they can't make a decision they're not of at age if their parents
wanted to inject them with heroin would it be okay if their parents wanted to put them
out for prostitution and they said oh my five-year-old my six-year-old wants to be a streetwalker
you'd be abusing them it could be a paglia is a classical liberal doesn't hate gay people
or lesbians or anything she says it's child abuse to tell people under 17 years of age
you ought to be a woman you ought to be a man but now they want to make it illegal and
they're done in california other places to even criticize it well now just like when
they block michael savage or block anybody else in the uk when they first get caught
they go oh we didn't really do that he's lying they're like well we did and just like they
came and told this woman you can't leave the country now and you're in trouble they tried
to deny it at first now they admit they came to her house and the police have her under
watch because she runs an organization saying don't take your young children out of the
country to have their genitals cut off castration they cut the testicles off and then fillet
the male genitals i mean it is unbelievable you gotta go watch the procedure online it's
medical it's not pornographic it's medical that's how they were able to put it on south
park and south park gets how evil this is and they're you know blacked out liberals
but they get it i'm a dolphin i'm a dolphin say i'm a dolphin no you're not a dolphin
i'm a beautiful ornate building no you're not so here it is twitter transgender critic
questioned by police and banned from leaving uk kelly menshol and of course you've got
peterson and the professor who's in trouble for saying there's two two two groups of chromosomes
jordan peterson kelly menshol has claimed that the ceo of transgender group mermaids
reported her to the police in july last year in remarks made on their fundraising page the
west york's fire force did not initially act they admit they later did after undergoing
training from miss greens mermaid organization in january try to take every islamic group
every whacked out group they train the police they soon moved to question miss keen menshol
under caution it is claimed miss menshol says she was questioned because of eight tweets
one calling transgender individuals who have had their gendals removed as castrated well
that's technically what it's called she has a war on science in terms first don't use
the word homosexual it's mean well no it's heterosexual homosexual it's just a word
then soon call me gay and then soon don't say i'm a man or a woman don't use the name
woman canada is now banning the word mother think about how satanic that is she has also
accused mermaids of praying on gay teenagers and of mass child abuse she now says her free
speech is under attack and is appealing for help in july 2017 so she's in trouble for
she tweeted a group donating funds to mermaids informing them that miss green had taken her
child for surgery in thailand on their 16th birthday despite british law prohibiting sex
chain surgery for under 18s dear at magnum ice cream do you know that ceo of mermaids
took her son to thailand at 16 to be castrated right transing kids as abuse she said wrote
on twitter she insists the offering tweet is not abusive and states the fact that's right
taking your children to have their testicles cut off is not abusive how to have professors
fired or arrested for saying there's two genders that's not abusive or totalitarian no saying
hey you know you're donating money to a group that takes kids to have this done mermaids
meanwhile claims miss green has been the target of a campaign of ongoing persistent harassment
causing alarm distress adding we support free speech but this it is not you don't have free
speech in the uk last year mermaids which calls for children to be allowed to be irreversible
sex change treatment by the nhs taxpayer money in which they still prohibit was banned from
contracting a family and contacted them after the mother allegedly forced her seven year
old to live as a girl that's right they forced them to live as a girl ahead of the chopping
of the testicles off it's not really girls becoming boys it's mainly the other way because
it's just you know there's not gonna be a pro zacker riddling your boy or make them sit
down and go to the bathroom and dominate him as a feminist which means an anti male cult
you've got you got to get the genitals cut off that's a real mojo it's almost more of
a sacrifice than the abortion because you grow them up they live they and then you dominate
them and you you get a spiritual vampirism is what that is yes destroy the essence of
the girls and the boys corrupt them all prepare them for damnation and hell they've also frequently
pushed for critics of transgenderism to be criminalized while taking hundreds of thousands
of pounds of taxpayer money and it goes on and on and we're all just gonna sit there
and take it and now let them have our kids in schools and prepare the little guillotines
it's a no brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now GCN listeners
receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code GCN call or click one eight seven
seven nine nine burky or big burky water filters dot com that's one eight seven seven nine
nine b e r k e y tired of being censored by facebook youtube twitter and patreon well
now you don't have to be one way dot com is the free speech and human friendly social
network built just for you stop feeding the beast every post you make on those evil anti
human anti-american perverted sites helps them destroy our families our country and our
souls join one way today and take back your liberty your free speech alternative is waiting
for you at one way dot com one way dot com info wars life brain force plus is our number
one selling product by leaps and bounds and for a good reason going back about five years
ago we did research on what top selling new tropics were what were most popular what were
best what people liked and we made it even stronger than we cut the price because leading
competitors have five to seven times markup we only have a hundred and fifty percent then
it helps find our operation well now it's fifty percent off that means we've got a twenty
five percent markup and we've got it paired with the real red pill that takes about seven
days to kick in brain force takes about thirty minutes but the two go together it's the mind
and body challenge they're both fifty percent off individually or together they're fifty
percent off and free shipping with the combo and info wars life dot com but it's got to
end in a couple days because both of these bestsellers are about to sell out info wars
life dot com to get your brain force plus and real red pill today after being sold out
for months our best selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock and info wars
store dot com the first shipment of super blue sold out in one week I thought it would
be a six month supply for listeners and since then people are beating down our doors wanting
to be able to resupply their super blue research across the board is clear in fact it's certified
when bacteria infect your guns it can enter your bloodstream and if you contribute to
blood clots and heart attacks that's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health
warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body super blue fluoride
free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula it's loaded with good halogen iodine some of
the bad halogen fluoride super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical
times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath just some of the ingredients in
super blue chosen by our dental experts include silo tall peppermint oil iodine nano silver
and more learn more about info wars life super blue toothpaste and info wars life dot com
and support the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth Alex Jones here with
an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info
war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago I set out with top
formulators in the u.s. to create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina libido
workout brain formula that is safe I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this
is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so
it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info
wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain
it's for sports it's for activities and it's made the u.s.a. get your alpha power today
at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha power today you're listening to
the Alex Jones show defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's Alex
Jones I Jordan in Iowa Jason in Florida many others were going to your calls in just 90
seconds Trump is set to speak here in the next 15 20 minutes or so and he'll obviously
make more announcements about the military being deployed to the border the showdown
with Oregon saying they're not gonna let the National Guard deploy when absolute federal
law especially with the border the president can have the governor basically relieved of
command of the National Guard the whole u.s. code all that's up on info wars dot com right
now subversion dem governor rebels against Trump moving National Guard the border but
first we did a big run of it it's sold out in just two weeks alpha power vital male
androgen biosynthesis promoter increases physical and mental energy boost sports performance
helps reduce fatigue and causes amazing in my case libido and I'm gonna be honest super
no vitality is amazing some of like that formula better we have the anthraplex that
is so hard to get the ingredients we're basically out of that and won't have it probably for
a long time and around the office folks have taken the out the power women can take it
as well and they have said without a doubt it is the strongest thing they've ever run
into and it's it's also generally seen as safe and healthy and all the rest of it but
I wanted to have the super souped-up formula of all the known Chinese medicine herbs but
also the latest science and this is the souped-up Lamborghini Coontosh this is the funny car
of these it's really strong it's really organic it's really concentrated and it's got the
key amino acids and things so that your stomach actually absorbs it of course the capsules
I forgot a lot of the stuff we have is the capsules that actually also this is designed
to go into the stomach but others go into the intestine it's just I mean our stuff's
all cutting edge and people that know about these type of things enhancement you name
it they are just like crazy loving this because again other leading competitors mark things
up 500 to 700% is the average really they say 700 but I found some of the other competitors
talking to some of the big companies out there it's like 500 and they say wow you're actually
putting on average 40% of the cost is in the bottle is in what's actually in the product
not not one seventh but I mean it's incredible so we mark things up 100 150% depending on
the product and they mark it up five to seven times that's 700% in many cases and we that's
why ours are also great it's why they're top rated all over the place on third-party sites
because we know we're already a target we know they're already grabbed everything intestine
we know they want to demonize it and they don't know what to do bees those doesn't know
what to do he's a big supplement seller a bunch of crap most of the time and you know
Whole Foods is falling apart the quality is going way down it's all over the news yeah
so in many cases I don't want to say snake all they got a lot of great products to Whole
Foods just that his own Washington Post attached me for selling high quality supplements and
the left traditionally one thing they got right was how good supplements are how good
iodine is for you how good I mean it's just crazy absolutely crazy so that never works
that attack never works can also earn double Patriot points in the month of April Tim had
the idea because Patriot day is coming up for the rest of the month instead of 5% on
every purchase you do you just click the box and it saves it an account for you for your
next purchase you get 10% and he signed up for auto ship that's additional 10% that's
20% off the already big specials nobody can top that up for reward systems 10% is unheard
of 2 or 3% is great 5% is on the top end of the standard 10% is redonkulous so again
out of power back in stock vital male androgen biosynthesis promoter you'll read about all
the stuff that's in it find out what sold off sold out so fast it is 25% off ladies and
gentlemen and your purchase funds this operation in the face of the globalist now lastly I'm
not mad at Tim and I'm not they get busy they didn't take down the brain force and the real
red pill 50% off special even though brain force will sell out by next week we won't
get more for a few weeks after that so whatever that's still 50% off and free shipping when
you get it with the real red pill and the two go together really well is so again thank
you all for your support info or store.com info or slife.com or triple 8253 3139 there's
some other big specials but the interest of time going right to your calls right into
the next hour than Roger Stone joins us well he's the center of attention right now man
and it's the only hope they've got they think to bring down Trump and it's ridiculous and
we have all the proof that they've had to change their story now as he produced receipts earlier
this week that he was in California not in England they said he met with the signs so
now they go oh we moved our timetable we still have the proof so it's gotten crazy I'm gonna
demystify this to everybody in the next hour look I'm going to do it I was there I know
what was really said behind the scenes I know what was said publicly on air and at the FBI
questions me which you notice they have and I will tell them exactly what happened but
I remember what happened and I guess it's a different way of looking things the way Roger
looks at it versus the way I look at it but I everyone was fighting to get you know what
I'll do it next hour I'll do it next hour but I told Roger on air when he's on a few weeks
ago I said Roger remember what you said on my show and I said by the way that proves you
didn't do anything and he's like well that's not exactly how they're saying it was and I'm like
dude you didn't do anything they're gonna tie up the knots over how you position that or how
you see something it's so minuscule how they're saying he's wrong and what he said and it doesn't
matter Trump when they asked about WikiLeaks he said I don't know who has him the Russian some
fat guy in his bed in New York I don't know if it's the English and tell no nobody knows you can
say that somebody did something from Russia it's from South Africa and it could really be happening
you know from California that's all come out about the CIA planning that on people and setting
people up in the whole vault seven releases but Trump said if Russia's got it release it isn't
about who gets the WikiLeaks it's about the illegal crap the Democrats did in there and
we're all supposed to just forget and move on from all that well I've pulled up the WikiLeaks
and a bunch of the top things that are in there we're gonna have a little time capsule thing here
the way they beat this dead horse about rushing gate that's all made up how about we beat the big
old fat juicy living horse of the ongoing treason of the Democrats in the globalist
okay that's enough I'm gonna shut up Jordan you're on the air thanks for holding thanks for calling
you're on the air I god god bless uh I this is actually a blessing I'm on right now I've been
trying to get a hold of you through different uh facets you guys have actually I'm I'm at 20 or
24 year old from Iowa I'm very proactive in the media aspect um can you hear me Alex yes I can
okay cool um I've been I run a page called populistwire.com um and a populistwire page
on uh Facebook Dan Lehman has actually uh sponsored one of our video not sponsored he
sourced it on the California homeless encampments in Orange County yes and so you know we've been
keeping up with that and everything else um but we've been trying to really do a grassroots and
this is my goal Alex is trying to get a hold of you to talk to you to meet you in person or do
something man um I've experienced this myself everything you've talked about it's it's personal
to me man and um I need I need to organize this movement for uh citizen journalists man we need
to compete with local newest organized organizations in these Fox grassroots movement that Soros is
funding here in Iowa and across even Trump states you know and everywhere else they're attacking
small counties we have to inspire citizen that's right they're sending armies of anti-gun groups
out they're gonna start town halls and hundreds of small towns to be anti-gun uh they're creating
their little change agents in every city and all of us have to now organize deploy and put up our
own resistance don't wait for orders from headquarters I appreciate your call Jordan here's the deal
I'm organizing the satellites the reporters our operations and I can barely do that and I'm under
a bunch of Soros and Democrat lawsuits so you just need to organize it you need to do it you
need to expose it you need to lead it and then if we see it we'll promote it uh but just don't wait
for orders from headquarters as they used to say go to the sound of the guns thank you Jordan
now we come back we're going to go to Lonnie and we're going to go to many others bam bam
bam I promise we're going to write your calls I covered a few stories there that are so incredible
we're going to go right back uh to your phone calls on the other side of that break uh board
patrol bust a child molester and a rapist trying to enter the US that's an article up on info wars
dot com illegal aliens are often convicted felons I know all of us know that but it's an important
article point out what's just happening as we speak right now as the governor is an open
subversion and rebellion in Oregon just as the governor is in california said they're not going
to help president trump secure the collapsed border choose to take control of your chemistry with
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your
thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100 percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain
and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com it looks like america is starting
to wake up from the lies and disinformation 77 percent of americans polled recently by monmouth
university believe that the old legacy media like cnn and the new york times regularly report fake
news the survey asked respondents do you think these sources report these stories on purpose in
order to push an agenda or do they tend to report them more by accident or because of poor fact checking
the majority of respondents at 42 percent said they believe it is to push an agenda while 26 went
with poor fact checking additionally the survey found that 83 percent believe special interest
groups are intentionally trying to implant false information into the news cycle and even more
believed those tentacles reached all the way into social media sites and youtube and it's not just
conservatives who are waking up to the obvious bias and propaganda pushing of the legacy media
a whopping 61 percent of democrats are in agreement you are fake news leon macadoo info wars dot com
we need to fund this operation ladies and gentlemen and i make it really easy
we went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy
for energy stamina mental clarity you name it and we created a stronger formula than some of the
best selling formulas out there it's very simple we went out and like look what is the top what is
the best we'll just put even more product in we'll make it better leading competitors put
two dollars a product in it sell it for 60 bucks we put ten dollars in it and sell it for 30 bucks
it's 1995 right now so you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for 1995 believe me we're
selling it for 35 on average we need that 15 20 bucks we make to fund this operation in the face
of the global threat of it but i'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks
i want to sell it all out before the big supply comes in and i want people that haven't tried
brain force to try it and find out why it's got 6000 plus five star reviews it's amazing info
wars store dot com info wars live dot com or triple a 2533139 vitamin mineral fusion visit
info wars live dot com to secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and
scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula
available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars live dot com is loaded with a full month
supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the
history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing
process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are
either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure
and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot
com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out you're listening to the alex
jones show
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
well you remember this a few weeks ago the former supreme court justice said it's time to repeal
the second amendment cnn msnbc hosts have called for it countless democrats nancy pelosi
that's a call for banning all semi-autos so is diane feinstein so is michael moore
then they play this game where they go we're pro second amendment bloomberg all of them say that
and now the dnc chair this week vice chair came out and said ban the second amendment
they're such disdain for us they then play games and say they don't want to
the story's up on info wars dot com
american town moves to confiscate assault weapons find violators for a thousand dollars per day
and then people just move out of the town or they won't own guns anymore or they'll
say their guns were stolen and then the crime rate just goes up a village in illinois declared a
ban on assault weapons and has given gun owners 60 days to turn them all in at between 13 residents
of the village of deerfield have 60 days to sell render inoperable or turn their assault
weapons over to local police they've got the local firearms card there in illinois they'll
know where to come any person who's found to have violated the article shall be fine not less than
250 and not more than a thousand for each offense reads the ordinance and it just goes on it's being
hailed by the gun grabbers so that's what they want as any semi-auto the media always shows
you know the scary looking ar-15 okay let's go to your calls we go to michael lani george
dan j sam jim james kevin adam we're gonna go everybody let's go to adam first and then
i'm gonna go to lani and george adam you're on the air from florida go ahead
alex pleasure to talk to you i just want to know a couple things first have you
heard of a jabo de caba i mean that's off to a little bit off of it i don't know what
jabo de caba no okay it's a rare fruit from brazil you should check it out anyway another thing
you verse chan cougar pay per view at first a little debate and then maybe like wrestling
or bare knuckles you think you could how much to charity do you think that could bring in well
again uh i would love to bust that little demonic toad up if you know you're in a fair
fight or whatever i'm not saying i'm gonna hurt him physically unless you wanted to get into the ring
with me he's a total coward uh they've had me on their show years ago uh he can't debate me
none of them come debate me uh the hag that's on the show ran up she said get your f f-ing fat
bleep off the stage she basically says arrest people that call people fat but she can say it to me
they spit ice tea in my face we walked by they said hey alex come over here and i said well
we're going over to interview first but i'll come back later then i kind of got lost where am i at
laying goes no they're over there so they're doing a break i see him go to break i jump hey how you
doing he's acting nice he sees roger stone blows up freaks out then they took our videos down 10
minutes after it happened because it was the google stage they were on youtube stage as you can see
right there on screen for tv viewer 2 million views young kerks flip out on alex shones and so
that's what happened everybody was jumping on everybody's stages too it wasn't like i was in
their building on their facility it was in a huge parking garage air conditioned they closed up with
hundreds and hundreds of just open air booths and like 10 feet from where i'm sitting there's another
booth so everybody's everywhere but they said he broke into our studio and came into our building
and got on and misrepresented it because again they're about preying on their audience but see
it's all just open air there's other booths just right over there if you're watching on tv
but then i showed the right bill clinton shirt and they went crazy and said okay get out of here
and then roger stone was 20 feet away not even on their stage they said roger stone's trying to
take over roger stone's trying to take over get him out of here roger's like if you i'm not coming
on your show so that's what happened of course it would get big ratings but i would destroy him
just like you go to a leftist march none of them can talk none of them are allowed to talk they
have talking points they can't have real debates he named his show after the armenian genocide group
go ahead adam their total hypocrite morons and he really showed it when they tried to fat shame you
and every time they every time he bring you bring up your every time chank here's your name the first
thing he does is oh the lizard people men on mars and things that you never said it's his only he
tries to just you know kind of almost like hillary does when you call her out on something real she
just starts to laugh like it's a joke but he'd like to change the subject to something you've
never done to try to discredit you it would have huge ratings and i would love because i'm not in
that good a shape or whatever uh and he doesn't look like he's in the best shape but i'm lost a
lot away from what i used to be i would love to do three rounds mma with him however he wants it
and we could wear gloves and i would donate two hundred thousand dollars in charity of his choice
if he'd do it i would the event would raise a hundred million dollars probably on paper
view but he doesn't want a hundred million dollars he wants to work for soros he wants to work for
the globalist but yes i challenge how do you say his name i can never say it right i don't even know
i i just know that ugar the ogre last part he's just known as sink the ogre and then the other
one's called harpy red red lip harpy and so i challenge them to a paper view event first a
two hour debate and then a three round if he wants to go bare knuckles we could you know go to some
state where it's legal too i'd really actually like to do that better who knows he might be a good
boxer he might beat me if the gloves are he's not gonna win if there's there's no gloves man i
love to do it believe me so uh we'll see we'll see if the turk can take on the texan that's a
great idea adam we love you head on of a jones threatens to beat the wonderful young turk up
no i said i'd get in a ring with him is what i said thank you so much adam great point lani
in tennessee thank you for holding her on the air worldwide
Alex pleasure speaking with you man i love you love your show love your super blue
toothpaste my whole family loves it uh i just got a point to make uh my daughter brought to my
attention my wife and i was uh last night um on facebook and she said dad go to settings and go down
to um ad tracker and then go to go to your um ad information went through all this you know
and down there under it's back in in the settings hidden it lets me know i've never put on there any
my political views um for my profile but i you know i do share a lot of your stuff and a lot of
different things um on trump and it actually puts you in categories oh yeah john gonzalez
that's one of our social media guys he it lists him as a liberal because his profile is just fun
he's really just a libertarian he's like me but he has fun on his page he's got some videos with
you know 10 million views he's a real talent in and of himself he's put a lot of memes out for us
but he pointed this out to me this week i didn't even know it was announced last year i had something
i missed that or year and a half ago during the election it told advertisers out of a few dozen
categories we had to shoot a video though and show people the control panel beyond what the
new york time showed him because that's so nazi to tell you what you are and gonzalez is not a liberal
if you call it what these people are but they say he's one just because he wants to have fun
and they recommend people advertise with his facebook but not with the conservatives and so
they also misrepresent and over sample liberals and say that you know like three quarters of the
country's liberal spent like 20 minutes in his in the in the interface the other day so they're
also just like they miss sample and polls they claim everybody's a liberal that isn't again to skew
advertising over into that to create a feedback loop right well uh a point i wanted to make on
that is i'm not sure if you broke it years ago when i first heard of um illuminati the one world
order or any of this stuff which back then i didn't really believe it thought it was just like a
hoax um there was talk of one day they're going to mark our mailboxes with a red yellow or green
sticker and that will identify the family that lives there as if they're you know if they're
a threat to the global government if they are they need to be worked on or if if they're yeah
what are those called they're called tacka some things and it was been proven that it is uh
engineering directive points in some cases some cases it's not some types of it's just the type of
sign um you're absolutely right but but here it is here is political labeling of who you are
and through facebook it's saying like a yellow star who you are absolutely it's it's insane
it is it's been a pleasure talking to you i appreciate taking my call you know i'm glad
you brought that up because nico uh costa brought it up to me a few days ago and he brought it up
to me like a year ago and i forgot to cover it or just forgot it was happening and i was like
print articles on this it's incredibly goes yeah we told you about a year and a half ago
so people don't think i know everything there's a lot i don't know that's why calls
are so important because you just reminded me of that i remember steve quail
filled 15 years ago no it's like 18 years ago i guess it was the 2000 census man time's flying
saying that they were getting drone locations for military to place artillery or missiles
with the census with gps at your doors in a select level the 2010 expanded and then later it was
admitted homeland security and all that actually uses that for drone coordination satellite
coordination the original zip code is artillery coordination systems uh and our highways were
built to move troops everything that's actually true under eisenhower so then i just saw all
that later get admitted that they were under obama they had drones doing simulated attacks
but yeah but there it is there's the different us political segmentation according to facebook
and of course it says that 75 percent of people are democrats which is another giant fraud of a
giant hoax we'll be right back i'm alex jones crashing to the lies and disinformation
let's go to debit in florida debit in florida you're on the air great hey thank you so much
listen i have bought your product and i gotta say they're amazing anyone who's on the fence
buy it because i've i've got caveman superman vitality secret swell five men in infusion
i've got the body armor wow thank you you're the type of listener that makes it all possible
which dude for surgical does you like best i really like the the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest
that's amazing incredible i drank it in the morning and i swear to you i felt incredible like
i haven't felt sweet my morning was fantastic and i and i love these guys i love the info
was true and i just want to yeah i want to i want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out
there who's on the fence just buy it we'll love it i'm telling you i've never bought a bad product
what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at info wars life.com it's
a win-win info wars life.com info wars life brain force plus is our number one selling product
by leaps and bounds and for a good reason going back about five years ago we did research on what
top selling new tropics were what were most popular what were best what people liked and we
made it even stronger then we cut the price because leading competitors have five to seven times markup
we only have 150 percent then it helps funder operation well now it's 50 off that means we've
got a 25 markup and we've got it paired with the real red pill that takes about seven days to kick
in brain force takes about 30 minutes but the two go together it's the mind and body challenge
they're both 50 off individually or together they're 50 off and free shipping with the combo
at info wars life.com but it's got to end in a couple days because both of these best sellers
are about to sell out info wars life.com to get your brain force plus and real red pill today
you're listening to the alex jones show
he aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side you're listening to alex
jones we are back live broadcasting worldwide george george in california has a great point gun
control dims not allowing border patrol national guard you already got the governor saying he'll
resist you already got the city's mayors like oakland saying oh ms 13 they're coming to rage
you they've got warrants but you you can resist that is absolute criminal activity it's sedition
against the constitution it is racketeering it's organized criminal activity but of course nothing
happens because they have packed the fbi since the days of clinton and torch dubby and obama
with globalists doesn't mean there aren't some good fb agents but my god the proof's in the
pudding here isn't it i mean this ridiculous witch hunt hillary after eyeballs with russians but
nothing happens it's just it's insane so subversion dim governor rebels against trump moving
national guard to the border but us code says trump can block that big time but this just shows
like the city council woman attacking a little girl wearing a make america great shirt these people
hate the country and if you like a cell doesn't have a wall it doesn't have a cell
mexico's got troops on its borders every other country does this is how you conquer a nation
is no borders this is insane george from california hey alex how's it going good my friend um i don't
think if you remember me i um i was called like about a two months ago talking about identity
politics and how that affected my family yes i do remember you're more of a libertarian conservative
you're hispanic uh i i misunderstood you said you were from new york you were from california
and you talked about people getting your face and all this and and and what it's like to be a free
thinker yeah it's actually getting worse with my family but that's a different subject i'm looking
at what's going on california and when are the california people kind of wake up the governor
is allowing hiv to be transmitted with no punishment or little to no punishment i gotta
interrupt you i see i can't believe we just speed bumped over that and forgot they said you can give
people hiv so it's not politically hurtful the folks that have it it'll kill you just like hepatitis
and and the point is i don't care what it is hepatitis hiv if you knowingly give me that
you ought to get in trouble that it and they he said you can give blood and then they keep
tainting the blood supply with it and people little kids get it but again it's like a weird
vampiric sacrament just like taking six years old to have the genitals cut off and their mommy's
telling them you're a girl it's a vampiric activity sorry go ahead yeah and that we have
high level of chemicals that are affecting our children and everyone else and on top of that
we have forced vaccination and now they're allowing immigrants to grow freely when are we
going to wake up when are we going to see the real problem that it's not immigration or anything
like that the problem is democrats and their agenda behind what they really stand for is your
family still mad at you for supporting trump the economy coming back and and he did a reasonable
DACA and they said no he went total open borders i mean is your family still mad at you my father
has not talked to me since i voted for trump he's still ignoring me he doesn't even want to have a
conversation or anything he keeps it real short when we see each other face to face well that's
his fault not yours he is truly deranged i don't mean insult your father that is a that is a
derangement that he gets into the media and all these lies and then it doesn't even trust or love
his own son i mean even if my son became a liberal or something i wouldn't i wouldn't disown them or
not talk to him i would convince him otherwise let me guess though was your dad already somewhat
distant and things to you yeah he's always been on the left he's always been you gotta stick with
the DACA you you can't go anywhere else the white people are racist well let me ask you this then
does he's does he support the forced inoculation of hispanic girls with Gardasil i have articles
about it killing people and sterilizing them today i mean because i the middle of loraza and
matcha actually tell hispanics uh that uh corn syrup genetically is like a death sentence for you
or that you shouldn't take Gardasil particularly hurts hispanics i mean does your dad care about
that does he actually care about hispanic uh aborting their kids or is he pro abortion
no he doesn't he doesn't care about any of that of course he wants exactly for killing little
mexican kids again the department of homeland security has acknowledged the discovery of a
rogue network of cellular eavesdropping devices discovered throughout washington dc the devices
can be mounted in vehicles drones helicopters and airplanes and are often used by spies and criminals
to track an eavesdrop on private cellular devices the agency did not say how many devices were
detected or where they found them american intelligence and law enforcement agencies
routinely use similar eavesdropping equipment in the field the stingray units operate by
tricking a cellular device into locking onto them instead of a legitimate cell tower stingray
devices allow the user to gain highly specific information on the location of any particular
phone down to a particular apartment complex or hotel room more sophisticated versions can
eavesdrop on calls by forcing phones to step down to the older unencrypted 2g wireless channel
some stingray devices can even plant malware on a phone leon macadoo info wars dot com
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny will so does he lie
from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
the
information uncovered by cnn's k-file raises new questions about long-time trump confidant
roger stone and his links to wiki leaks on the same day he sent an email claiming he had dinner
with the wiki leaks founder julie lasange stone warned that quote devastating information
from wiki leaks would soon be released he said the information involved wrongdoing by the clinton
foundation stone made of the comment in an august 4th 2016 interview on the info wars radio show
the clinton campaign narrative the russian favor donald trump and the russians are leaking this
information this is an opulation because as you said earlier they know what is coming and it is
devastating let's remember that their defense in all of the clinton foundation's scandals has been
not we didn't do it has been you have no proof yes but you have no proof well i think julie
lasange has that proof and i think he's going to furnish it to the american people that same day
his source says the stone sent an email to former trump advisor sam nunberg saying he had dinner with
julie and asange the night before stone now says the email was sent in just that he never met or
spoke with julie and asange our chief political analyst gloria borgers with us our cnn k file
senior editor andrew kazinski broke the story for us andrew what can we glean from all of this
about roger stone and wiki leaks so this uh exchange with stone and alex jones actually provides the
earliest example of stone claiming to know about forthcoming wiki leaks uh my team had
pretty much put together this very extensive timeline uh showing that stone repeatedly claimed
to know about wiki leaks drafts on clinton that we're going to be coming we had previously pegged
the first date he had talked about that is august 10th when he said he had spoken to asange this
showed him speaking about it on august 4th nearly a week earlier and couldn't simply enough um the
same day he sent that email claiming to have dined with asange now we're going to go back to your
calls the bottom of the hour to come to the waterfront with roger stone who'll ride shotgun
with us but he's here former head of the trump campaign i remember back at the time because
sean handy was having julie and asange on the new york times was interviewing julie and asange
right after this they all stopped interviewing him because then they said oh he's a russian even though
there was no proof of that and i remember constantly talking to roger and i remember sending emails to
asange and others saying hey come on my show come on my show and that's what you do as a journalist
asange has talked to hundreds and hundreds of publications and been on hundreds of tv shows
i'm like why don't you come on ours one time he was on with jones dotte here like six seven years
ago in the camera shot with her i guess he was dating her or something from rikeavec
and he still wouldn't come on so he's kind of technically been on the show but only sitting
behind her i'm like hey asange come on that was before he was like the mega huge thing was when
wikileaks was first going i guess it was like eight years ago time flies but i remember
just from my memory the conversations with stone and he's like well i've got to go between
that talks to him sometimes and i hope i can find out what's in there but you know obviously we know
the clintons are up their eyeballs with russians that's why they're blaming them with the russia
we know she's in uranium one because the new york times reports 2015 2014 we know that got killed
so we have all those hours of shows where we accurately predicted what was coming
they were in deep with the russians so they were going to put that on to trump
so because we're there describing all of this they then try to spin it that he met with asange
and then he had dinner with asange i remember him saying i'm trying to get my contact he told me off
record is a radio talk show host turned out that's come out in the news in new york who does know asange
to have dinner with him and then they said that he was in the uk but he released his receipts this
week where he wasn't he was in california so now they've changed it all around and and now
they're they're in the united era of emirates talking to muslims and they're they're they're
trying to win canada there there's nothing there it's crazy mewler is on the tarmac with uranium
samples uh when he's not even the fbi director to the russian intelligence agencies they're the
ones transferring the iranian i mean you look it's so incredible that stone accurately predicted
that they were going to go with this whole russia gate thing and so he exposed russia gate before
it happened so they made him the central figure in russia gate as a punishment is that an accurate
way to say this roger alex uh my favorite part of this is the way that they pull down an interview
that we did on august 4th and their headline says uh newly discovered uh exposed and so on it's been
hiding in plain sight uh on our exactly they act like big syndicated shows with more viewers and
listeners than them are secret well it's on our youtube channel it's been available through the
info word site we have a lot of great stuff there that julie asange uh said that i predict this is
devastating is because as early as july he's been tweeting that charles or tell told me that he had
heard it from james rosen of foxwood of fox news and it was uh it was or tell who i have enormous
respect for as a researcher and analyst of the corruption of the clinton foundation uh it was
centered around the clinton foundation and i remember our private conversations i remember
our private conversations and i said well then how do you know and you said fox news you told me
all the names off record i remember all these conversations now ironically or tell turns out
to be uh incorrect yes i say in my speech that i have been i've communicated with asange
there's some showmanship there i'm overselling it but i do have a confirming source who was
sure i mean technically if if you're communicating through another journalist with someone that in
a way that is communication but but then they're going oh you lied you said you were in communication
but you weren't it go ahead well it's and it's why i did not want to disclose this journalist's name
to the committee i resisted initially when congressman trey gowdy appealed to me to give it in the
best interest of clearing the whole thing up i gave his name i feared professional reprisal
against him in fact he was fired and by the way i said any work and the story broke i want to be
clear we are always very honest on the show but i will not give up sources and many times i will say
we've talked to well if i know a journalist who's trusted and they've talked to this person for me
i say we've talked to because we're just leaving sources completely out of it that is completely
normal well so and then in my speech to the southeast rower republican club i say that i
have been in communication while technically yes through the black channel through the
confirming source and i believe the disclosures pertain to the clinton foundation information
i learned on july 25th it turns out to be at best partially accurate that was not the focus of the
disclosures uh again the they have to recycle at cnn in the washington post the padesta falsehood
my tweet says the padesta's the that's two people the donald is one thing the padesta nobody calls
john padesta they the padesta is referring to john and tony's time in the barrel will come what does
this mean precisely the Panama papers brought to my attention by dr jerry coursey completely
exposed the russian business deals of john and tony my tweet refers to both of them i know this
grows tedious it's tedious for me too alex but the libtards like to recycle the same crap well
sure i get sick of hearing about it because i lived it and i heard it we wrote the articles
and the videos are there and we're all on record and you said they're going to go after trump for
russia because they're up to their eyeballs and that's all true and you said Mueller's never
going to stop he's lying to their lawyers yeah and they're going to tell him in january and
trump's going to get mad and that was true and you said mcmasher will be gone and you said this
guy'll be gone you picked the months you've got the sources we know that we don't like to give
up our sources we knew that he was going to go after uh facebook twitter uh amazon it's all
happening just like we said and again we're doing it for america we have nothing to do with russia
but it just seems to be going into overdrive now what does this signify out of muller well it
signifies that he doesn't have anything else look i know that this is a dead end it doesn't matter
what i said in an email i'm in the fabric of american politics my i have one million emails i
guarantee you that's a cornucopia of smoke in mirrors and ideas that never materialized and
and faith but i'll tell you what's not in there alex no trees and no violation of law well that's
it and the russians involved in politics is very very small it's the chinese that are literally
threatening the united states have their ships threatening us that have bought up hollywood
that own the democratic party and they are just desperate as the foreign power manipulating
this country to distract us with the whole russia red herring we'll be back with t entail fully
cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious
i buy some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life
nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon
or warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon ships free at fully
cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot com this is dan billard you the irs money you can't pay
our tax debts crippling you i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands
and i can help you too i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such
thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new
programs there's never been a better time to solve your problem call 834 no tax that's 800
34 no tax on my website danpilla dot com heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high
blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are
there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just
a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making
a difference in thousands of people's lives across america my blood pressure has normalized
my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm
telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body extract to everyone
anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardio vascular system healthy order your two month supply today by calling 866 295
5305 that's 866 295 5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866 295 5305 or hbextract.com
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in fuller's life
it take hours michael zx plus it now has a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in
probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids
so you can upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and remembering that it's not
just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to
spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
the reason info wars life has five star ratings on major third party sites is because i want products
i'm going to use for my family i take this my family takes this and then it funds the operation
with the most hardcore truthful information you're going to find anywhere so what you find
in our news is the same thing you find in our products at info wars life.com if i ever forget
to take them like i'll i have a noticeable difference i don't feel good the nascent iodine
is one of the ones that was life changing for me yeah i've actually have just run out of
my super female i had a few bottles at my house and i've been taking it again hitting the gym once
again very exciting feeling great looking good so and i know my hair is luxurious once again so
obviously the super female is amazing i love it nascent iodine is essential survival shield x2
if there's one product that i would say is life changing that i would suggest it's nascent iodine
survival shield x2 it's got a five star rating it's a win win info wars life.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
sam nunberg
sam nunberg global developments years before they happen right here on the alex jones show
we set the trends but they had uh calbert attacked me again a few weeks ago these they were talking
about jones keeps bringing up all these weird trends and they come out of nowhere and then
comes the big trend of the country and the trend of congress that's our real power it's not even
the broadcast itself it's the ripples in the pond like our investigative journalist got the
secret documents from a whistleblower about the total grids in russian dc to seattle washington
and the stingray systems in 2013 that all broke two days ago in ap with the same documents
yeah get the news today you'll be learning about this five years that's why they hate us
and so stone's in trouble for saying they're going to go after trump on russia gate
from the earliest days because he's been on their butt and it's podesta john podesta that
writes the talking points that you see them still attacking me with today hillary is still
in charge of the mainstream media and no matter how bad she hurts that party the media still follows
her orders no matter how low cnn's ratings get along no no matter what happens msnbc
it just continues to unravel now there's this particular rayburn character and you know people
saw our emails or our text messages half of them are our jokes um i'm not going to show any of them
because there's a little bit profane mine and yours it's just a little joking back and forth
we do have time to joke now but it's the exact time of joke you made here when people keep asking for
things sometimes when i keep asking for things you give me a smartass answer uh but i i never
heard you say you met with the signs i heard you say you were getting intermediary trying to get
through to him but again that changes the subject will cover in a moment of what's in the wiki leaks
but speaking of the joke it's a clear joke that cnn is having a stroke over that they're hyperventilating
over and explain the joke to people it's really simple you have to understand i recommended uh
sam nunberg at a time when donald trump wanted somebody to work with him on speeches talking
points scheduling outreach to the republican party uh uh uh speech memos and so on very rarely did
donald trump ever work from a prepared text but he did like to look at memos with statistics and
factoes and he liked to have a background memo telling him who he was meeting and what the meeting
was he digest a bunch of stuff and then what what matches up with his own research and gut he goes with
that essentially the role that young pat new cannon played for a resurgent richard nixon
sam was fired when he gave too much access to a reporter named mckay coppins at marlago and
coppins wrote a withering piece which angered trump saying that trump would not only never run
before president but he would never be for president be president how's that story looking
today mckay in any event uh that got sam fired it was his lack of judgment of letting this viper
fake news journalist get too close to trump and it wasn't insulting peace trump went on to win the
presidency i convinced among others uh the the president now to rehire sam uh because he was
a talented man and capable when sober unfortunately uh during the campaign cori lewdow lewdowski had
one of his minions go into sam's computer find uh facebook emails that were racist but five years
ago uh and leaked them my advice to send he denigrated uh uh the reverend al sharpton in those
emails my advice to sam was to call sharpton and apologize and seek his forgiveness
sharpton is a christian man i once used a racial slur regarding roland martin i've apologized for
it i realized now it was hurtful people make mistakes we are christians uh and sam did that
but sam was not rehired and he is was virally opposed and bitter over his termination and frankly he
was for hillary clinton uh when he left my side he went to work for steve bannon uh he became an
acolyte of bannons he began showing up at bannon's white house office and all the gossip sam had was
about steve and what steve was up to sam spoke openly alex about steve's presidential campaign
steve running in the place of trump uh and like uh sir but why does he matter at the point there's
a joke email why does this even matter well the reason it matters is motive when i wrote a piece
for info wars saying that bannon should step down which was also carried across many platforms
uh bannon three days later was a fighter late that night nunberg called me at three o'clock in
the morning and said that i was a piece up and he would take me down there you have the background
moe and then he goes into the email where you're horsing around as he quit bugging you about wiki
leagues like like i was everybody else was you did the joke oh yes i'm having dinner with him
yeah and here's the great park in in his response he says that's great can i have his email i'd like
it to pass it on to charlie gasprino about fox who wants to interview him he took the bait he's a
chump he bought it but that doesn't mean it happened as you know it's an attempt to reinflate
the entire russian collusion narrative and distract us from what is really let's go back in
fact can you guys pull it up trump says release the wiki leaks tells rush to release the wiki
leaks trump's like i don't know anything about rush i'm not getting money from them but i don't
care who has it whoever has killery doing all this illegal stuff whoever's got the missing emails
release emails why don't we talk about what is in there in fact we'll do this summer we take calls
we should go back into what's in this this is damning stuff this is russia gay this is manipulation
this is media control i don't care who who who released the wiki leaks how does that matter
we have the crimes they committed this is an important distinction though when donald trump
goes public saying russia if you have donald trump if you have hillary's emails release them
those are not the emails that are ultimately published by julina sanj no one has those missing
emails this is like going to war with iraq over their role in 9 11 it makes no sense whatsoever
but that doesn't stop chuck todd from asking me i meet the press you didn't tell trump what was in
these emails before he called on russia to release them they're not the same emails it's typical fake
news look this is all a distraction from the fact that the biggest fight in the country right now
is their attempts to silence us in the face of this onslaught they not only want to attack us but
they want to take away our voice to defend ourselves that's the real fight today my facebook post
don't reach the hundreds of thousands they used to i've been banned at bitter at at uh at twitter
they are monkeying with me on youtube as they are with the with the war room as they are with the
alex jones show as they are doing with sure we're the patriots we got a guy in the country's coming
back he's putting trips on the border sovereignty the economy we're the good guys we're the americans
the globalists the nazi collaborators funding lawsuits against us rogers getting sued a bunch
i'm getting sued a bunch thank god they're all frivolous he just won one into the jury trial
god i'm not gonna go that far with these other ones my lawyers tell me none of these lawsuits
will even go to a jury trial they're also fake but still takes money to fight them we're gonna go
to break come back and take calls with roger stone i'm gonna finish up though where does he think
Mueller's going next but first briefly since he mentions funding and how they're after us alpha power
is back in stock it sold out in only two weeks it's now back in stock 25 percent off oh look he's
got his alpha power right there uh put it back on go ahead turn his mic back on
this is incredible this utilizes eggshells a a a a natural substance used back to the time of the
egyptians for immunity to boost immunity uh this is a terrific product i had the flu earlier this
year i saw it online i bought it this is great great stuff you like a moon wall it's amazing
bodies our ultimate tumric formula super strong it's back in stock 25 off alpha power uh vital
male androgen biosynthesis promoter that is back in stock 25 percent off and it is
for stamina libido energy i mean it is the known concentrate at the strongest level we believe
that anybody else has i mean this is so much money goes into the product only a hundred percent
markup on this baby ladies and gentlemen everybody else 500 to 700 markup info or store dot com alpha
power heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar
spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert
you that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of
people's lives across america my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved
everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier
i feel i recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american
continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system
healthy order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305
or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the us to create the strongest most concentrated over the top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the
number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute
sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for
yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities
and it's made in the us day get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com everybody needs to try
alpha power today after years of research working with top developers here in the united states
with the latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids one of them is a
powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat other proteins better
and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolife advanced restoration and we also have an everyday extremely affordable
fluorolife everyday maintenance but all of these are the very cutting-edge top-of-the-line probiotics
and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price that is my goal here is to bring you the
very best at the lowest price when you purchase it at infowarslife.com you know you are also
financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide
it's been sold out for months and now it's back it's mycozx plus lower price more ingredients
because we scaled up signed to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer
scalability but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39 50% off because there's a lot
of product and a lot of ingredient mycozx now it's the other side of the equation everybody
thinks about probiotics now great they are for your gut because you have toxins in the environment
pesticides herbicides but more importantly than bad bacteria the probiotics help displace yeast mold
creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there it
causes all sorts of psoriasis well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds
known to destroy that slime wall don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late
pick up a bottle of the new and improve mycozx plus now from the info wars store
you're listening to the alex jones show
why is info wars so powerful why are we so effective why do the global status
not because of me because of you the huge audience and the fact that i studied classic americana
i studied actually what made the country great i read alex entered the toqueville
i read the writings of thomas jefferson and george washington benjamin franklin
because as a young man and as a child it was so entertaining thank god my mom was in history so
was my dad my mom of course went to college and has a degree in history and archaeology but
uh the point is is that i just grew up hearing all about history going to famous places going to
the spessonian many times you know and just thought it was great and it wasn't like i was a bookworm
either i was street fighting and playing football in the whole nine yards and uh it was a somewhat
of a hand with the ladies it's just that i wasn't reading comic books i was reading books written
by julia caesar because every page was a war every page was how many kings he executed and
and how many i mean it was just it was so interesting and then i read all about you know all the
Pulitzer prize winners of world war two so i got a hand on how stuff works all these fake phd's and
stuff these were enough books to get the professor to let them pass so they go drink beer and eat
pizza and play volleyball or you know play frisbee golf or whatever liberals are not knocking frisbee
golf i play sometimes too the point is is that i really have studied this stuff i'm not a fake
intellectual people that call themselves intellectuals it's like a title they give themselves
and the globalists want to destroy this country they want to enslave you and your family they want
total control and i have read their writings i have studied them i know they're in game i know
their operation as much as hillary clinton does because i've read their writings most of them are
very very lazy they're just sellouts they'll do the evil stuff i've interviewed all the top
scientists the professors the patriots all the angles and they hate us because we know their
blueprint now my only smart side guess was you know how important history was and actually decide hey
i better know this so i don't repeat it but i'm not that big a deal and i want people to know
they didn't like rocket science we're learning here if you know about globalism and how politics
and real politic works you're gonna be successful in any business or life you're in how journalism
works how the real rules of work not burning sources being honorable in business paying your bills
not stabbing people in the back and in some alpha exercise real alphas don't do that
i even let people screw me over and stuff because i won't even get the fight with them because i
want the smart people to go that's who we want to work with that's who we want to trust that's who's
smart so we're just here telling you how it works folks and they're pissed because they listen and
they go yeah he really knows in fact the globalist i'm told listen to kind of even figure out how
their own system works because most of them don't even know really i've been told what we cover here
in the wrong hands could be very dangerous i mean seriously i guess some people learn the
stuff decide to join the other side but i'm betting on you humanity i'm gonna go to these
calls roger's bounce the hour with you riding shotgun on cornucopia of issues but but watch
Mueller's endgame here and uh other key tedbets well here's where i think their vulnerability is
alex see i have believed since uh uh january 20th of 2017 that i was a subject of a fysal warrant
an illegal unconstitutional warrant now confirmed had a probable cause therefore my emails are
you know be most likely being poured through in the manifold case the government is specifically
denying the manifold was ever under surveillance even though numerous news organizations that are
reputable have reported otherwise that he was then it was turned off then at the time he went to
work for donald trump guess what the deep state turned it back on so uh that is where their
vulnerability is i may have to go into the federal courts to get the facts here ed Klein
confirm them independently from the new york times and therefore my civil rights have been
violated my civil liberties have violated there is no probable cause that ties me to the russians
i'm being uh i'm under surveillance because i support donald trump for president because i'm
on info wars and i tell people the truth and it drives them crazy that's what this is really about
muller appears to me to be a man still looking for a process crime he can examine this all he wants
we and i you and i know this is a dead end we don't have any advanced notice of the source
contents or exact timing of the wiki leaks disclosures in fact you and i expect them to be
october 1st they're not they end up being october 6th and guess what just as james rosen a fox told
charles or tell they turn out to be devastating yeah i mean remember i was mad at a son i was
mad at a son with you on the show for not coming on the show or contacting us back when i was
contacting him i called him a butt plug i know you were very upset when he didn't immediately
come forth but many didn't read what he said on october 1st he held oppressive ed many expect
there would be disclosures at that time no he announced a schedule of disclosures that began
the following week october 6th he drops a payload so our sources are essentially right he ultimately
does produce we're wrong about the day at that time i was told that his one of his attorneys
daniel ellsberg had concerns about assange's personal safety remember what's moving to the
calls they tried to drown drone this guy let me just say this we ought to make a documentary all
of us should make a big deal about what's in the wiki leaks because it all turns into roger
stoner did he talk to assange which didn't happen who cares instead of the devastation of their
criminality that is in these things we should be talking about what's in the wiki leaks but you
are absolutely right the whole thing is in effort to distract from the content of this devastating
material it shows the epic corruption and greed of the clinton's it shows the manipulation of the
system to cheat bernie collusion with the medium collusion with the media collusion with the u kranians
collusion with some russians it's not donald trump will get 145 thousand dollars from the russians
for his foundation it's not donald trump will get a half million dollars in a speaking fee from a
russian oligarch who's close to vladimir putin no that's bill and hillary clinton so these emails
are devastating and you know the key thing alexis no one has ever questioned their authenticity or
their accuracy all they try to do is distract us from the content shows that america was right
when they rejected this corrupt klepto that's right now they're just throwing now they're just
throwing fits on us while the country comes back the border comes back when we deliver i want to
go to george we're going to the other college as well thanks for being patient folks george got
caught up before you came on it was something about his dad that's really mean to him because he's
Hispanic uh shing how dare you vote for trump you're a bad guy blah blah blah and i just said
where is mecha and la raza that say everything for our race those outside the race nothing's the
motto well okay well then stop have the left try to get your babies aborted because i don't care
what color your baby is please don't abort him yeah i'm not enough for killing babies i mean i'm
a real bad guy and don't take Gardasil shots or in mexico they say it's mandatory for all girls
11 and older and i've got articles right here where it's killing more people just today
and where it's connected to sterilizing people and reducing fertility so see i'm such a racist white
guy i don't want hispanic women sterilizing themselves yeah i don't want a big centralized
government doing that that's pure evil i don't go oh gee some leftist hispanics get turned against
because i'm white so let's just kill all of them that's the leftists that are actually using the
Hispanics that live as a weapon against the free market in america and the west but trying to kill
as many as they can along the way so george that you got cut off by the break i want you to have
the floor shortly to talk about your dad that's how you think outside the box i would challenge him
on Gardasil on the left pushing abortion and just say okay if you're for the raza i'm for the whole
raza the whole human race then explain to me pop why you just think uh the el diablo is el gringo
of el norte go ahead that's the thing that i've been trying to argue with him but again he does
give me the time of day the thing that i find ridiculous is uh where's la raza with all the
killings that have been going to mexico where's la raza with all the kidnapping child trafficking
and drugs smuggling that's been going on in mexico you know that that's totally pop no no no
they've been hooked him with they've caught la raza and mentioned members here in austin
with slaves in their basements because the family didn't pay the extra money to coyote him up here
they demanded more they've caught them you know the city council members brothers you name it
exactly they are the mexican mafia preying on hispanics that try to keep hispanics in line
playing the race card just like the clan did in the south of white people and uh i find it
unfortunate where roger's going through the justice system is broken and has been broken for a while
and i've experienced it in my uh wife's side of the family because uh i'm married and uh
they're accusing my brother-in-law of killing his child and uh he is innocent oh man i tell you
it is broken my brother i'm so sad to hear that we'll be back with more calls god bless you george
info war's life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
introducing pollen block we have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort
and respiratory function in the 1960s researchers in france noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses they began studying this
effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research a fast acting
chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms pollen block is natural and
effective it is not an antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually
acts by blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe head to info worse life
dot com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets i'm so excited the new product
at info wars life dot com in a glass bottle two months servings filled to the brim filled to the
absolute top the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any
stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went
off what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they
were charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula
working with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglinone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing
red pill now available at info wars store dot com and your purchase of the operation
info wars life brain force plus is our number one selling product by leaps and bounds and for a
good reason going back about five years ago we did research on what top selling new tropics were
what were most popular what were best what people liked and we made it even stronger then we cut
the price because leading competitors have five to seven times markup we only have a hundred and
fifty percent then it helps funder operation well now it's 50 off that means we've got a 25
percent markup and we've got it paired with the real red pill that takes about seven days to
kick in brain force takes about 30 minutes but the two go together it's the mind and body challenge
they're both 50 off individually or together they're 50 off and free shipping with the combo
at info wars life dot com but it's got to end in a couple days because both of these best sellers
are about to sell out info wars life dot com to get your brain force plus and real red pill today
i want to plow into all of this i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com
i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it you cannot beat that for children
and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands
against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we
know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you're listening to the alex jones show
by the way i'm not at liberty to get into this but i am going to follow a big lawsuit
the next few days to counter people a little bit attacking me and lying about me but most
importantly hurt my family and then i am preparing to file counter motions and then and then and then
injunctive relief with a bunch of these cases i can only tell you this we didn't figure this out
it's about a year ago what was going on we've got about three deep of these lawsuits they're not 13
where they would say we don't want anything just say you're sorry
so i'd say okay and they'd say okay we're suing you we don't want anything to say you're sorry no
i'm not going to do that okay we'll give you money no and the number went up so i want to explain
something they just want the pr but i realized they were saying the precedent that i'm a bad guy
i'm fake news i'm being sued so then i started saying no i'm not gonna do that so the number went
up and the lawyers are like my god take the money you know just so i'm being sued and paid money
but then i said watch the third one or the fourth one will be bigger and then and sure enough it
happened so now i figured this out so i'm getting all the litigators all lined up and they're pretty
much lined up and we're going to hit people hard and even daily beast with this latest lawsuit
said this is really dangerous he's got total slapback provision there's not a lawsuit here
the word was dangerous and said why did these lawyers even let this guy do this
they even used exhibits that weren't our website we did retract a little picture that
wasn't the shooter like everybody else did and we did remove it we did do a retraction
with it the statutory time but they say we don't in the lawsuit i mean it's it's it's it's it's
crazy but what it's designed to do is create the illusion that i'm in trouble i'm going down we're
going down we're frauds because cnn is going down ms mbc is going down their ratings are flatlined
everything in the globalist system is collapsing so it's just intimidate and tie up people that are
fighting for freedom but all it does is show americans wait they're not just going up our second
amendment they're going at our first amendment as well but let me just say this we've been able
to knock out six of these suits and it's probably cost us two hundred thousand dollars to knock those
out that sounds like a lot it's not with lawsuits these others now the university of georgetown
suing me that is the vatican the law department and the lawyers look at they said we can't believe
a lot of departments never done this they follow the 70 page anti-free speech things saying overturn
the first amendment that's what it does i'm doing a press conference on a lot of issues coming up
next weekend dc i'm not going to get to it until then but this is big and i'm quite frankly honored
that we've been chosen for destruction not everybody else because we are getting the
main serving of the attack i want to go to the calls we're gonna go to sam and jay and dan and
michael and cabin and we'll go to all of you before uh the great john rubbport comes on so i'll go
the next hour get your calls i swear i'm getting to him so thanks for holding but just briefly roger
it's a blessing and a curse there's people rally to us they get it but then the globalists just
think people are going to get punched drunk to the assaults but it's open season on you and i
particularly info war just in 60 seconds why do you think it's such open season well because they
have nothing else uh and because they desperately want to control the internet for 2018 and 2020
that requires silencing us silencing us requires phony trumped up lawsuits that can then be pointed
to saying i you see jones is being sued for grooming a young man for gay sex for example
the smears are ubiquitous uh you know and by the way the complaint says he never said
anything sexually to me and he was here 14 years but i just felt like it because they
walked in an editing studio and saw a picture of a man flexing muscles that that's the eoc
complaint and they want to meet with me and i just said just sue me let's go this is insane crap
it's it's character assassination but i remind you of what i said in the yeah believe me i ain't
got a groom nobody and i'm not into men it's it's it's asinine alex uh you need to revel in their
hatred if you are not so effective on info wars they would not hate no no my energy levels way up
i actually am reveling in it i just don't like people i've been nothing but nice to making up
crap it's it we wear nazi shoes no no they're public i wear black shoes that's what i always
wear cowboy boots or combat boots this is what i wear i don't wear freaking shoes with swastikas
on it it's just who the hell comes up with this crap the democratic party does that's who you know
so i go to los angeles i stay at the london hotel the only piece of the get correct about this whole
thing so they say you're in london i know i saw that i may have to put up with it with the with
these limtards who are just constantly regurgitating this stuff the hatred that is spewed out at you
uh is the most it's like a torment of hate but it's because you imagine actually walking around
with swastikas on your shoes i mean why do they come up with this weird stuff well look we're
talking i really think owens shawar had a great analysis of this the fake news media the day the
daily beast the the salon huffle slate and so on msnbc cnn they're like drug dealers they're
constantly kerning out product all of which is recycled and discredited but dressed up for another
cycle the libtards liberal democrat progressive lunatic masses the trump haters they're like
they're like crack addicts they need this crap because they're so stupid they believe it they
really think there was russian collusion they really don't understand that hillary clinton uh was
an enormous turnoff to the american people and that she ran a lousy campaign and that she is
epically corrupt as is her husband and the american people finally got hip to it they reject all of
that reality for their own world view in which donald trump could not have possibly have one
without the active assistance of the russian state exactly let's go to some calls you're right
i'm gonna everybody who should we go to first sam in oklahoma and then michael then everybody
else go ahead sam in oklahoma yes or go ahead crazy lady iranian youtube shooter just an observation
she's a fit name it's david hog if you put their shoes up side by side yeah what is this
with a maciated day of the dead people on the left and then look at their teeth it's uncanny
i really want to talk about the border though no no you're right why why does she look like
she has a black wig on i mean he kind of does look like it's that same like the very unusual
almost like alien features like i don't believe there's human alien hybrids but david hog and
i'm not big bullying him i'm have a right to say it and her they look like grays wearing liggs can
we show that actually i'm not saying aliens are real folks it's a joke i mean look come on that looks
like i mean she looks like if you painted her face grace looks like space alien come on i'm
i'm sorry i'm trying to say something uh there uh roger yeah look she's not attractive that's for
sure if you look at her videos this chick is trying to do it make the best of what she's got
she does a thousand different things to try to break through and get attention uh on youtube
yes she felt rejected it's very odd the whole case is odd initial reports say that it had to
do with a domestic dispute with her boyfriend but she appears to have some grudge against google
as many americans how do we know she's not mark from orc or whatever his name is nano nano
it she is very distinctive looking let's put it that way hog uh you know i i look forward to the
fact somewhere there's a video of this guy smoking a cigar he looks like he's high school aged like
i'm a vegetarian uh there's just something not right about this fellow uh but he has enormous
power in the mainstream media today and he wants to get it on on guns so let's get it on all you're
doing is helping pull out the trump base in 2018 i agree sam thank you so much i appreciate your call
go ahead no roger star where's jumping to much calls here uh let's go ahead a little bit of
delay with the types of things we're interrupting each other just does that okay let's go to uh sam
and uh no sam's next it's michael in new york on the old roger stone go ahead i like to make
a couple points alex before i do i'd like to just say may god almighty bless the constitutional
republic of the united states forever and to help with all traders and domestic enemies hang
them high and hang them fast amen first point first point uh it's about time we got the troops
on the border no like george washington i know trump and i vote a form or form i'm a new yorker
in fact i have a cousin who's very good friends with uh president trump and um every other country
has their military on the border not only that he's got to andy jackson great president all in all
and george washington though he's a guy that set the set the uh proper trend for all presidents
stay out of foreign entanglements and protect the country and so it's long overdue to get the troops
down on the border number one and let's recall when gw was president how vincenty fox with that
north american union push over here he was lining up people from south of the border giving them
backpacks right there himself president vincenty lining up an invasion force giving them survival
gear to make the trek into our country i mean it's literally an invasion if there's any country we
should be invading it's mexico and show him a look teach him a little respect again and then
we can be good neighbors that again uh second point on the parkland school shooting you know
the main uh fault of that incident however it happened hold on stay there i'm back to you in
like two minutes only hear about the main fault i think it's the stand down they knew it was gonna
happen and they let it happen micah and arizona here on the air worldwide go ahead oh alex you
can rent any day of the week thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing
your best to save america and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas
as well um and as a longtime info wars listener i want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
anthro plex my girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthro plex thank you um i use the bio
truce selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans the
super blue is awesome and thank you so much alex for the info wars life products they are quality
i can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy
absolutely because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be
good to each other and ourselves we can take our country back you know if i tried to sit here and
tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in fullers life it take hours michael zx plus
now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the
mold uh the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the
preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great
with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune
gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine uh super high
quality silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering
info or store dot com and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other
people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word and again thank you so much
for being part of the second american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want answers well so does he live from austin
texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones and the great john rap report of no more fake news
dot com is coming up roger stones was gonna ride shotgun was for two more segments but looks like
he just the skype just got out the miracle of skype has its problems we're talking to michael
new york who's on fire he was just getting into it's normal to have trips on your border and you've
got the globalist and i remember for sent a fox saying invade invade invade if you don't let us
your racist it's just like what now the democrats have it where legal aliens are voting in a bunch
of states it's just insane and and again they bring people here put a chip on their shoulder
then try to soup them up against the government the country it's it's it's it's got to stop ladies
and gentlemen uh but michael in new york finish up your point nation activity essential alex my
second point regarding the school shooting down in parkland the primary uh blame falls strictly on
the school administration everything else is secondary because after 10 plus years of school
shootings around this nation and a public school a government school still doesn't have the safety
nets in place to prevent anything happening in their schools that's incredible incompetence by
the entire school administration principal assistant or the whole you know i've been talking to a lot
of people that that that work within the rower county service department and they tell me that
there has been a stand down and that the police chief of the sheriff excuse me will be fired by
the governor that's i i'm i believe that's all true for sure i think the evidence is overwhelming
proving that but even the school administration how does it how does somebody with a gun stroll in
especially supposedly armored who'd been kicked out who'd been kicked out of here before we're
saying they'd mass shoot who the police all knew about you can see it all it's sick imagine we're
not tough guys but i carry a gun in my car or whatever imagine you're visiting your kid bringing
him a pizza at lunch something out of the sometimes when i'm not working and or coming to see him after
school or whatever at athletics or whatever he bring him you know some food and you hear shots
going off you grab your gun you go in i'm not a coward i'm afraid of kids dying i mean it's
isn't an instinct for almost everybody to go rush in i mean or are we weirdos just like a house on
fire you're going strolling by you're going to go try to do whatever you can to see if anybody's
in here and save whatever you can but you know the schools after 10 plus years of school shootings
around this country and all public schools still do not have safeguards in place to prevent it from
happening in 30 years brother columbine was in like 99 it's almost 30 years and so these people
this administration is totally to blame they're overpaid they should be fired or fired and salaries
revoked as well as their retirement everything should be revoked and put pressure on the remaining
school administrations they better start earning that overpaid salary they're getting this should
not be happening in our country at all anymore and last sir i'd like to just say that i hear
yeah i love you guys and dr group he's wrong about not having an herbal means of stem cell
production i have it i use it all the time if you'd like to take my number we can discuss it
sometime and i can demonstrate it to you it's all herbal it's all american and i love to hear it
let's get your number right now i love i love the research thank you sir get me his number please
hey i we're going to go to break come back in one more segment take calls but roger briefly
you're there in broward county your sons of sheriffs deputy have met him had dinner with
him great guy your daughter your wife all of mausam i know you can't get into inside baseball
you haven't get any info from him but from other people what's it looking like from your intel
what happened with the stand down or did it not happen well it was a complicated question
recognize that the previous sheriff albertia republican essentially lost because he was
corrupt and tied to a local ponzi scammer scott rosty i uh supported scott israel over him because
he was corrupt even though i had supported the sheriff lamberti in the previous election in fact
i had engineered both their elections uh i hear two different things at the highest level of bso
sources tell me that there seems to be some confidence that all the videos and all of the
other tracking systems the radio transmissions the eyewitness reports will exonerate the bso
others on the force tell me that that is not the case and that we're going to learn that
some officers have stood down what's interesting is now suddenly the coral springs police department
who got the call first and arrived at the high school prior uh to bso i believe uh is it refusing
to answer questions from fd le let's talk about that when you get back one minute get ready for
alex jones to invade the swamp jones is set to give a speech at the national press club in
washington dc on april 10th during which he'll make a statement on the raft of anti-free speech
lawsuits targeting his first amendment rights numerous lawsuits have been launched on the premise
of attracting media attention and defaming alex jones and info wars's reputation jones will
address the left's new tactic of trying to bury info wars under a deluge of lawsuits several of
which do not rest on any sound legal basis while the mainstream media and many on the left routinely
celebrate these lawsuits when they're first filed those same people are noticeably silent
when the lawsuits collapse these lawsuits are yet another attempt to shut down free speech
and they are doomed to fail alex jones will go live at nine a.m eastern from the national press
club in washington dc you can find live streams of the press conference at info wars dot com
leon macadoo info wars dot com waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live
from the front lines of the info war all right roger you were getting into
roger county and i understand you you helped get rid of the last sheriff your son's on the
sheriff's department there and what is now known as coward county that you were getting into your
son's a great guy a great patriot of annoying well but but getting back to this whole situation
with uh the other town standing down uh it's just crazy these mass shootings keep happening
in san bernadino or in brow in or in broward county there are or in denver or littleton
they're always in blue areas everywhere it's a red area garland or wherever people shoot the
shooter in a matter of minutes sometimes 60 seconds i mean the school resorts guys are
they don't play games in red state they kill you in seconds but but but but they always
stand down in blue areas let's recognize that broward county is the single most liberal county
in florida this is a democratic liver liberal bastion with a very large african-american uh
hispanic and jewish population this is the most liberal progressive politically correct county
in the state uh the question here there are two questions one the country the the county does not
have a consolidated 911 emergency service the sheriff is argued for one but some towns have
refused to opt in insisting on taking their own 911 calls that's why the initial call about the
shooter at parkland goes to the coral springs police and they dispatch officers coral springs
police now refusing to cooperate with the state inquiry their officers will not be deposed under
oath by the state unless they are subpoenaed to do so so some kind of cover-up appears to be
going on the sheriff's office what about the one guy that ran the school safety who stood outside
of the video i think in his case that we already know the answer he he was a coward despite the
fact that he had 37 years in training for just this moment despite the fact that he taught swat
tactics in these situations to other bso officers despite the fact that his own training had been
upgraded post columbine he froze he went yellow the sheriff said it the president said it sadly they
appear to be right but are there others we don't know yet sickening sickening i mean i just know
somebody's in a building shooting young people i'm gonna go in uh as you couldn't get while it's not
even like a courage thing it's like an instinct people are killing innocents i want to kill them
and i'm not blood thirsty except when that's happening it's like i want to go kill him you
know what i mean roger it's like a it's it's it's i don't know how you wouldn't go kill this guy you
know i mean i think the good news is that unlike las vegas where there's so many missing pieces no
videos and so on there's an indelible record of everything that happened in parkland there are
cameras there are sound systems there are monitor i hope they don't tear the building down like they
did in in sandy hook uh let's go ahead and talk to jay in california jay thanks for holding i appreciate
that go ahead that caller's gone let's go to uh another caller but home along is kevin kevin
in the great state of west virginia here on the air go ahead sir hey um alex hey roger i got a
couple things for you alex and then i have a uh a pretty wild curveball question for mr stern a
couple part of question go ahead um number one um with david hog i just agree with you a tiny
little bit on who he is um i think he's a crisis actor and i also believe he's a sacrificial lamb
i think something's going to happen to him and i fear not i hope nothing does but i have a feeling
they're going to use him well that's what matt bracken says because i've never seen such censorship
to criticize him and misrepresentation there's something weird swirling around him yeah absolutely
um and i know in texas this weekend there's going to be a first and second amendment auditors there's
about 500 of them coming to audit a um a police department that put an ar-15 on a guy that was
walking along and just had his pistol hosted they were not um try to audit that police department you
know and and flesh it out but i'm a little bit concerned with uh the border patrol of the national
guard coming down at the same time that this is going to happen is that cj grisha you're talking
about i think so yeah we should get him on by the way go ahead um and then for um mr roger um a few
months ago i've been trying to get a i wanted to talk to you about this mr well you're talking to him
now go ahead a few months ago you have been quoted by a miss linda moulton howell of earth files
dot com and uh and and this is in reference to um to uh richard nixon um about uh project houston or
or um project or operation houston i was curious to know if anything if you knew anything about that
and about the three secret meetings that nixon had underneath the white house yeah let's talk about
that yeah they said you were nixon's best friend the last 15 years of his life uh a lot of other
stuff the point is you were in the nixon white house all the only one of the plumbers didn't go
to prison did nixon ever talk about space aliens secret government breakaway civilizations that's
a great question did nixon ever talk about any of that uh there's a story that i think is relatively
credible that comes from one of jackie gleason's wife's uh gleason lived in miami was a great
pal of nixon's they played uh uh uh uh golf together regularly more importantly they drank
together jackie had an enormous capacity for alcohol nixon had almost none uh gleason's wife
told a credible reporter that her husband told her that gleason once asked the president whether
there was extra extra terrestrial life whether there were ufo's what was the story nixon who'd
had a few pops arranged for a car to take them out to uh the western part of this of the county
near homestead where they went to a government facility and jackie said he saw actually captive
space aliens and other fragments from space that indicated other civilizations this is in my book
tricky dick uh the rise and fall and rise of richard m nixon which you can get uh you know
through amazon or through barns noble i think he may even be on the infowars site this is a new book
that i have just uh put forward so we're talking about to the moon without a rocket here exactly
as jackie gleason would say uh so i recently went to a restaurant there was a great picture of
there it is this is a great picture on the left the great one on the uh pardon me on the left
the one on the right the great one what a couple characters huh well gleason had endorsed uh nixon
in the 68 campaign nixon uh gleason was a wild man when it came to wine women's song and find
tailoring and he moved his show uh to uh miami beach the fun and sun capital of the world he he
never was dabbled in politics but he made a very effective endorsement spot for nixon in 1968
and which he said look i'm in show business but i'm an american and why dick nixon was right for
america great man jackie gleason loved america you know thanks kevin they're just mad that we
were right and picked trump and now the country's come back so much is happening troops are going
to the border normal stuff's happening i mean they are just so pissed that i guess dad came back home
i mean i don't i don't know what are they gonna do next roger look i still think that the they're
trying to lay some process crime on the president pertaining to comey or or uh oh you know they are
they keep saying like a former prosecutor says that the president can be indicted in put in jail
when that's not true in the constitution he has to be impeached first he's or you'd have every you
know group out there doing it every day so they're you know you're right you've been proven right so
he's gonna announce crimes against kushner or somebody else they're gonna announce the president
a grand jury's indicted and they're gonna try to beat the drum about that that's where it's going
and i guess the president just sits there and lets muler be on tar max with uranium well here's
the point though the president's gaining strength as the economy gets stronger he gets strong and
you're right there's approval writing even their skewed polls is going up which makes him go even
more crazy if he pulls off a peace deal or the denuclearization of north korea uh this is by the
way where the real pity that the tax cuts weren't done earlier weren't done first because they still
won't have their full effect by the 18 elections they are going to turbo charge this economy
but it will take some time uh it's a little trying to bring down the economy too uh we've
got ravenport coming up after this break we had 20 seconds i my gut tells me trump's unstoppable
unless they assassinate him i think they're gonna try to kill him well we pray against that every
single day we pray for the safety of the president and his family uh but but just getting as many
death threats as i get as many as i know you get alex threats against my wife my children
even in texas they hate this my dogs it's outrageous that they are they are prone to violence
and they're extraordinary but they're only waking us up so they better get ready for the serious
political aspect the answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance
become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and 347 for families choose from
three health sharing programs holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing see guidelines
discount programs available for dental vision and pharmacy go to libertyoncall.org that's
libertyoncall.org fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut
presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration
needed with a 10 year shelf life nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated
ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served life saving ready to eat bacon 10
year shelf life bacon ships free at fullycookedbacon.com fullycookedbacon.com fully cooked ready to
eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy
some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life nasa pack
technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and
served life saving ready to eat bacon 10 year shelf life bacon ships free at fullycookedbacon.com
fullycookedbacon.com it's a no brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you
need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get
the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive
five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky
water filters dot com that's one eight seven seven nine nine burky we need to fund this operation
ladies and gentlemen and i make it really easy we went out and looked at what the top new tropics
or brain pills are that are healthy for energy stamina mental clarity you name it and we created
a stronger formula than some of the best selling formulas out there it's very simple we went out
and like like what is the top what is the best we'll just put even more product in we'll make it
better leading competitors put two dollars a product in it sell it for 60 bucks we put 10
dollars in it and sell it for 30 bucks it's 1995 right now so you get an incredible top of the line
new tropic for 1995 believe me we're selling it for 35 dollars on average we need that 15 20 bucks
we make to fund this operation in the face the global threat of it but i'm doing this because
we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks i want to show it all out before the big supply comes in
and i want people that haven't tried brain force to try it and find out why it's got 6000 plus five
star reviews it's amazing info wars store dot com info wars live dot com or triple eight two five
three three one three nine we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together
with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us
through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and
chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in
the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we
need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be
healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're
changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars live dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
news analysis reports it's the alex jones show and now your host john rappa four
john rappa four here sitting in for alex in the fourth hour at info wars
is going to be talking a lot about the bill of rights what is that
certain parts of it but let's start with the story not out of america out of england
richard osborne brooks 78 year old man living in a house on april fourth
week shortly after midnight two thieves enter the house
brooks wife sleeping upstairs there's a fight brooks 78 years old gets into a fight
with one of the thieves the other one runs away during the fight the one thief is stabbed
he's in critical condition
scotland yard tells the press in the aftermath of this that they arrested brooks 78 year old
homeowner on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm the thief dies now says scotland yard
they are arresting the homeowner richard osborne brooks on suspicion of committing murder
what who how what are they talking about a person doesn't have the right to self defense
in his own home suspicion of murder
this goes to the whole issue
the perpetrator becomes the victim the victim becomes the perpetrator
reversing the truth turning it inside out and selling it
selling it hard selling it for decades selling it to a half asleep maybe totally asleep public
under the guise of turning around the obvious i mean forget even traditional okay the obvious
values and principles upon which any sane society is based
selling the idea that property is theft right owning property somehow means a prior crime
must have been committed otherwise how could you possibly own property
and somebody who invades that property that home well they must have been oppressed
in the past that goes without saying their motives the motives of thieves are clear
but you see the motive of a 78 year old man richard osborne brooks in london has to be
analyzed and poured over by the cops and by prosecutors and so forth to detect if there's
any slightest hint of unreasonable aggression on his part before deciding whether to release him
or prosecute him for murder murder this is where we're come to this is where we are this is
the secret society formula really of turning everything upside down inside out
motive destroying society destroying you destroying me destroying everybody destroying
whatever there can be that's good honest right correct obvious straightforward meaningful about
life that's where they're going that's where they've been going that's the whole idea behind this
otherwise in this particular case why would they say we're arresting this homeowner on suspicion
of murder now neighbors in that area are in an uproar they're saying give this guy a medal
he defended his house there have been other robberies in this area this is great and he's 70
year old terrific and it's also sending a message but no no no no no no that opinion
can't be allowed to stand as the headline of the story no the headline of the story has to be
destruction of what is good and true and right
to that's the mindset of evil
how else is there to put it how else can you describe it that's what evil wants
that's what evil people want they want to invert and reverse and destroy all values
I see for those of you that are watching there's a few pictures on the screen of cops in the area
and so forth I saw photos earlier it looked like somebody had released a biological weapon
there were all kinds of as they call them forensic investigators around this house in
London wearing blue puffy almost look like hazmat suits right what are they looking for it looked
like there were you know a dozen of these guys in addition to Scotland you there there's a few of
them what is that what is that uniform these are forensic investigators they look like creatures
from another planet and then in addition of course you had uniformed police officers
on the scene it really looked like okay well somebody decided to set off a dirty bomb or somebody
had a biological warfare agent in the house and so forth and so on meanwhile crime is
rising like crazy in London with stabbings and so forth you've had stories recently about that
but they've got to focus on this guy Richard Osborne Brooke 78 years old
why because the issue of private property is at stake
if he becomes celebrated if there is a huge groundswell of public opinion on his side
much larger even than now if people rise up and say we're sick and tired of this and that's it
then you get a revolution overnight people wake up they say what is going on here
what's happening when it's so simple a family owns a house people break into the house
we don't know what they're going to do we know they're going to steal something
owner defense the house arrested on suspicion of hurt be back after the break
the answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance become part of a
group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses
individual share amounts begin at one hundred seven dollars a month and 347 for families
choose from three health sharing programs holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing
see guidelines discount programs available for dental vision and pharmacy go to liberty on
call dot org that's liberty on call dot org it's a no brainer a big burky water filter is the one
you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other
endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two
cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky
and now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or
click 1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99 b-e-r-k-e-y
in full wars life and in full wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest
release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3
nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as
lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and
allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the
result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two
years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product
in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does
vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something
the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139 alex jones here with
an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to
fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set out with top formulators
in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina libido workout brain formula
that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and
family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
in info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself
and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation
try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen
it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the u.s day
get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha power today
the department of homeland security has acknowledged the discovery of a rogue network of cellular
eavesdropping devices discovered throughout washington dc the devices can be mounted in
vehicles drones helicopters and airplanes and are often used by spies and criminals to track
an eavesdrop on private cellular devices the agency did not say how many devices were detected
or where they found them american intelligence and law enforcement agencies routinely use similar
eavesdropping equipment in the field the stingray units operate by tricking a cellular device into
locking onto them instead of a legitimate cell tower stingray devices allow the user to gain
highly specific information on the location of any particular phone down to a particular apartment
complex or hotel room more sophisticated versions can eavesdrop on calls by forcing phones to step
down to the older unencrypted 2g wireless channel some stingray devices can even plant
malware on a phone leon macadoon for wars dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance you're listening to the alex jones
show and now your host john rapaport john rapaport here in the fourth hour don't forget about alex
apure breeze air purifier at info wars store dot com fifty dollars off with free shipping limited time
only alex apure removes 99.97 percent of airborne toxins and contaminants in your home
game changer comparable units cost as much as 800 bringing it to you at info wars with
fifty dollars off with free shipping necessity for any clean home get yours today at info wars
store dot com and get it for fifty dollars off with free shipping only limited period of time
info wars store dot com this is called capitalism what a dirty word right capitalism oh my god
god capitalism somebody has a product and sells it and somebody else buys it
this is now of course superseded by much more sophisticated and complex economics where
everything is going to be free for everybody and nobody works and it's all utopia right
this is where it's going and we can thank the technocrats and the globalists that this is the
utopia that we're entering where there there is no longer an exchange where somebody works to
actually earn money i mean isn't that horrendous no no no no no no you'll be given everything
you'll be given everything in the new society it'll just be laid out on a silver platter for
you and you won't have to worry about anything ever again nothing will be a problem to you
you'll wake up in the morning secure in the knowledge that you can sit and watch television
for the next 30 years and nobody is going to bother you and things will be delivered to your door
and food and so forth and so on and the whole concept of work which was you know ancient and
outmoded will be just gone and everybody will be serenely happy isn't that what everybody wants
isn't that what you want isn't that the new world that is waiting for you yes huh no more
private property you'll have a sign on your door that says whatever i have here is yours for the
taking yeah whatever i have here is yours for the taking you can have it so theft will be gone
it's just erased as a concept the way borders will be erased and countries will be erased
and there'll be one all embracing loving authority at the top of the food chain
that will run the entire planet on this basis of course certain things will be happening you'll
have no guns i mean there won't be any need for guns because no more self-protection that's out
nobody will have guns except the government and the criminals but we don't talk about that
nobody will have the right to their own body because after all you can't think of your body as
as being invalid or a piece of property no your body belongs to everybody so when the next
generation of vaccines comes in which is being tested right now and this is not science fiction
i'm making up they will be synthesized genes that will be injected into your body april 15th 1995
new york times look it up and these synthesized genes you see they say will make you immune to whatever
the disease in question is and for every vaccine instead it'll be genetic therapy and these genes
will be injected into your body and won't that be wonderful wonderful except for one thing except
for the fact that your dna will be permanently altered by these injected genes so you might
have some question about being stuck with new altered dna for the rest of your life and you
might have some question about everybody on earth in this next generation of vaccines
who receives any vaccine of this type having their dna altered permanently for the rest of their life
but these are just peripheral questions you see that are melt away in light of the fact
that the medical cartel which is the strongest arm of the globalist movement has your best interest
and your health in mind and they really only want to heal you and do the best for you no matter
what the circumstances why else would they have invented this revolutionary technique called dna
vaccines which inject you with genes and permanently alter your dna and by the way not in entirely
predictable ways but in ways that nobody can predict because there is a ripple effect when you
start tinkering you see with the genetic structure of humans and you say well we're only going to cut
this much that's all there is going to take this little slice of the dna out we're going to put it
over here and then we're going to substitute a few genes here which we know are tremendously
beneficial and then everything will just kind of smooth out but then it turns out you know we
didn't do it right or somebody in the lab made a mistake because now it appears that there are
after effects and ripples that go on and on and on and on and on we don't know where or how or why
or what the effects are going to be but don't worry about it and that's why the United States
Department of Agriculture has suddenly decided that they are not going to regulate the next
generation of GMO food crops yes there is going to be a next generation this was just the beginning
when Ponsanto did starting in 1996 no no no no no this is going to be a whole different ballgame
you see because many more changes will be made in the genetic makeup of fruits and vegetables and
grains and so forth by breakthrough revolutionary gene editing techniques you see a little snip here
a little snip there put that in take that out glue it all back together and so forth oh yes
and it turns out that this technique called crisper crisper
is very cheap oh very available anybody with a lab and an idea can get it
so they can just experiment to their hearts content Pandora's box is wide wide open and the
U.S. Department of Agriculture is saying we will not be regulating any of this new food
because it is kept this identical to food produced by traditional breeding mechanisms
wow these guys have some huge you know what to be able to lie like that openly
you mean the ancient techniques of breeding food are no different from snip snip gene insertions
and deletions and changes and ripples that's the same food wow what would be the next step along
that insane road into the glorious future that we're all looking for well it would be that big
companies would say agri-companies we want this kind of genetically engineered edited food to be
labeled organic because you see we don't need to use pesticides anymore we just modify the genes to
reject the pests organic really huh be back after the break don't go anywhere defending the republic
from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your
gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout
the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life
it takes hours michael zx plus it now has a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in
probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural
hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so
you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering that it's
not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential
to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
let's go to debit in florida debit in florida you're on the air great hey thank you so much
listen i have bought your product and i gotta say they're amazing anyone who's on the fence buy it
because i've i've got caveman superman vitality secret swell vitamin interfusion i've got the
body armor wow thank you wow i'm the type of lesser than makes it all possible which
dude for surgical does you like best i really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest
that's amazing incredible i drank it in the morning and i swear to you i felt incredible
like i haven't felt sweet my morning was fantastic and i and i love you guys i love the info wars
true and i just want to yeah i want to i want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there
who's on the fence john buy it you will love it i'm telling you i've never bought a bad product
what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at info wars life.com it's
a win-win info wars life.com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life.com
and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life.com you're listening to the alex jones show
John Rappaport here in the last segment the fourth hour just a quick reminder about brain
force plus 50 off at info wars store dot com boosting your mind your thinking process that's
the new atropic brain force plus at info wars store dot com private property the ability to say
this is mine i earned it you can't take it that's at the heart of a great deal of things
now people say well that's you don't want to talk about that because that's really
politically incorrect i mean don't you think that's kind of harsh
no it's not even harsh for liberal snowflakes if you dig deep enough into their bags to find out
what their most precious possession is whatever that is it'll be there somewhere oh my cell phone
i've got to have my cell phone or whatever that is and you say that's not yours it belongs to me
because i'm taking it no you're not you can't have it it's mine so even the liberal snowflakes if
you dig down deep enough they're going to find something that they truly believe they own that's
there as you see now they'll never really admit it in any principled form certainly not in the form
of the bill of rights or the constitution etc they're not going to be looking at anything at that
level because those are just worthless pieces of paper that are blown away in the wind but
on a visceral emotional level you can find something that they consider is their private
property they own it it's theirs you can't have it so at that level even they understand
something that is basic now whether they actually earned it or not that's a whole other question
right earned the money to buy the phone we'll leave that out for the moment but that's a deal that's
been struck through the struggle of history your land does not belong to the king your land does
not belong to the monarch your land does not belong to the queen your land does not belong to the
priest class of ubladi whatever the you know ruling priest classes your land does not belong to the
vassal the baron it belongs to you much blood has been shed over that simple fact and now of course
on many levels including as i discussed in the last segment your body we're going to give you this
DNA this new DNA it's going to be incorporated into your DNA and you're going to be changed so
your body is not really your own it belongs to us the state now the globalists have to try to turn
that all around why do you think they want to take the guns all the guns not just a few of the
guns they're looking to take all of the guns because they don't want people to have the ability
to say this is mine you can't take it no matter what all of that has to be turned around because
the propaganda for globalism is everything belongs to everybody whatever that means you see
everything belongs to everybody everything is connected to everything and therefore everything
belongs to everybody and nothing belongs to nobody and whatever we say goes and we're just
going to have one giant cheese glob of consciousness in this new society of planet earth one nation
for the entire planet ruled from above by the new world order the global management system
whatever you want to call it the elite who know what's best for you and me and everybody else
and what's best is that nobody owns anything anymore that's gone has to go by their premise right and
so if you don't want that to happen then you have to dig deep and discover your own understanding
of what your private property means and what is yours undeniably irresistibly yours
but I don't like that because that's too harsh I like share and care better well you can share
and care whatever you want but if everything is taken away from you then you have nothing left
to care right think about oh well just I'll give you know I just want to give everything to everybody
and and be a nice person and everybody likes me and it'll be wonderful and so forth no it's not
going to be nice it's going to be nasty very nasty unless you get down in your mind in your
soul what it means to actually own something own it OWN don't shirk away from it don't run away
from it don't back off from it not only accept it not only admit it be satisfied be very very
satisfied about it nothing wrong with it whatsoever if you don't have that you don't have a declaration
of independence you don't have a constitution you don't have a bill of rights you don't have
anything nothing which must be what this guy Richard Osborne Brooks who I started out with
at the top 78 years old homeowner in London must be thinking about now as he's sitting in his jail
cell wondering whether they're going to release him or prosecute him for murder because he defended
his home he defended his life he defended his wife's life against two thieves and in a battle
with one of the thieves one of the thieves died while this man was defending what he owned his home
and all that that meant to him not just just the physical but everything that it meant
to him as well that's what he defended and that is ultimately why they put him in jail
now they may release him then they prosecute him we'll see what happens but that's why they arrested
him on suspicion of murder and why they put him in jail because everything in the new world order
is inside out and upside down and that's on purpose folks that's one of the secret society
formulas turn everything that's right and good upside down make the true and the good and the
decent and the wonderful and the fantastic horrible and repellent and disgusting and vice versa
that's the formula that's the deal that's the piece of the puzzle in psychological warfare
and all that's necessary is that we go back to the basics the basic is this is ours this belongs
to me I own it I take pride in ownership and no you can't take it away from me period it's very
simple when you get down to it it's not the whole story of life no but if you take that piece out
what you have left is something that truly 99% of the people on this planet do not want
whether they know it or not and some of those people will only understand it when it's all gone
but for the rest of us we know now what it means and we know that what the globalists are aiming
for is to take it all the way and say see it was just all provisional it was never really yours
oh yes it was and it still is see you next time at info wars thank you
you
they use their media to assassinate real news they use their schools to teach children that
their president is another hitler they use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award
shows to repeat their narrative over and over again and then they use their ex-president to
endorse the resistance all to make them march make them protest make them scream racism and sexism
and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows burn cars shut down interstates and airports
bully and terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs
and stop the madness and when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage the only way
we stop this the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies
with the clenched fist of truth i'm the national rifle association of america and i'm freedom's
safest place hey how you doing hi good brother just recently started using your products everything
you said everyone's correct me and my wife both use a lot of them and it's made a lot of changes
in our lives well thank you brother it's because it also funds our operation but doing that i know
i've got to have the highest quality super male vitality was developed to activate your body's own
natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals we did the super male and the super
female vitality big changes a lot of energy we've gotten off the cheap energy drinks energy shots
statement ton of money there sourced from powerful organic herbs harvested around the planet and then
concentrated or maximum potency they want to stun and dumb down and energy drinks and stuff just
cover that up for a while but then burn you out in my experience whereas stuff that gets your glands
naturally going goes right to the source so it's pretty exciting and i love it visit info wars
life dot com today to secure your super male vitality and other powerful products from info wars life
you're listening to the alex jones show
