And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation, it's Olin Shroyer.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Guys, I'm having an audio issue. What's the deal here? Am I live? Okay.
I'll tell you, it's, of course, that's how the show would start. That pretty much represents the chaos that we're in right now.
I'll tell you, it's amazing. I can't even believe that I'm hosting the Alex Jones Show while we are literally in the most paramount times probably of world history today.
And you look at everything that's going on, you try to add it all up, you try to put it into a formula, you try to reach a conclusion, and that's the only conclusion you can reach.
There is no other conclusion to be reached yet other than that these times are the most historical, most paramount, most incredible times you ever be alive.
Whether it's being on the brink of World War III over Syria and Russia, and now you've got rhetoric being hurled back and forth between Russia like a ping-pong ball,
and the United States just playing ping-pong, World War III ping-pong back and forth over Syria. Syria's the ping-pong ball.
Or you've got, and this is the incredible angle that doesn't make sense in the overall equation. Unless, which leads me to my question today, is Donald Trump that dumb or is Donald Trump that smart to be playing World War III ping-pong with Russia?
Now what do I mean by that? Do not forget about the Mueller probe. What is the purpose of the Mueller probe? Russian collusion.
The Mueller probe has pretty much, whatever you want to call it, the Mueller probe, and it is a probe. Probing anything, probing everything.
We've got more clips on that. He's limitless. But think about it. Mueller sends in the FBI to raid Trump's longtime lawyer's office. They say it's for documents pertaining to the Stormy Daniels case.
But he could have taken anything. He could have taken the documents from every meeting that Trump's ever had with Cohen. And this is supposed to be part of the Russian collusion probe.
So you've got Russia and the United States, Trump and Putin playing World War III ping-pong with Syria as the ping-pong ball.
But then you have the Mueller probe investigating Trump colluding with Russia as if Russia and Trump were colluding the whole time and they've just raided his longtime lawyer's place, multiple places raided.
So what is going on? Is Trump colluding with Russia and Mueller is probing to find that out because this is real? This is a threat? Trump and Russia taking over?
Or is Trump playing World War III ping-pong with Russia the real deal? And that's the real deal. Is Trump either in bed with Russia or is Trump either about to go to World War III with Russia?
And that's why you say, is Trump that dumb? Is Trump that dumb that he would go to World War III with Russia over a false flag in Syria?
Or is Trump that smart that he would play the deep state Russian collusion probe like a fiddle and balk and head fake going to World War III with Russia over Syria, even though that's not really the plan?
And if that's the case, you would have to assume or hope to assume that Trump and Putin have already worked out a deal and this is all political theater.
So is that political theater? Is Mark Zuckerberg being grilled on the Hill for the second straight day, not under oath? Is that political theater?
Is Robert Mueller's probe into Russian collusion with Donald Trump rating Trump's longtime lawyer's office? Is that political theater? Or is all of it real?
I don't know. Like I said, the only conclusion I can reach today is that this is the most paramount time in human history. You better be awake for it.
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy. We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it.
And we created a stronger formula than some of the best-selling formulas out there. It's very simple. We went out and looked at what is the top, what is the best, we'll just put even more product in, we'll make it better.
Leading competitors put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60, we put $10 in it, and sell it for $30. It's $19.95 right now.
So you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95. Believe me, we're selling it for $35 on average. We need that $15, $20 we make to fund this operation in the face of the global threat of it.
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks. I want to shell it all out before the big supply comes in, and I want people that haven't tried BrainForce to try it and find out why.
That's $6,000 plus five-star reviews. It's amazing. InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLive.com, or AAA-2533-139.
We're here. And the President has canceled his South American trip, and they're saying they have military options on the table to strike 24 targets inside Syria, including some targets where the Russian military is based.
The Russians announced three weeks ago they're going to pull out. Trump announced two weeks ago that we were going to pull out, and it was a successful defeat of ISIS and al-Qaeda.
But a lot of different parties, especially the EU and the globalist and the former Obama-era people in the White House and some of the neocons, they want to keep the U.S. there.
They want a wider war. McMaster wanted that as well. The Russians have warned this could trigger, in fact, may trigger, will trigger a huge new world war, because if the U.S. bombs Russian forces for the second time, we've already had Russian forces killed last year,
they're saying they're going to respond militarily to the ships and the aircraft that fire the cruise missiles and drop the bombs.
So you've got British attack ships, missile cruisers, destroyers, and U.S. destroyers in the area with cruise missiles and aircraft saying that they're going to strike for the next 48 hours.
That was 24 hours ago. They said they're looking at striking the next 48 hours. Trump says all options are on the table. From a chemical attack, there's no evidence that the Russians or Assad launched, and we've caught the rebels three times doing it.
That's come out, even the UN has admitted that. So it's incredible that the U.S. and Russia are pulling out. It's a big victory against al-Qaeda, and that doesn't seem to matter, because right on time this new attack takes place.
So this is very, very critical time to be alive. It's very, very dangerous time to be alive, obviously. For all these nice folks here, they're visiting the White House today and seeing the cherry blossoms that are coming into bloom.
As a father of four children, it really upsets me because I've really been happy with what Trump's done with the economy, with the border, with national security, with standing up to political correctness, standing up to Hollywood, getting us out of the TPP,
returning sovereignty back to our own country. But to now have Trump basically manipulated by Mueller and the whole fake Russia investigation to all these new sanctions and moving troops up to the Russian border in Eastern Europe,
and all this talk of war and all these sanctions, and when Russia has not done anything to us. It's Hillary in bed with the Russians and the Communist Chinese.
It's Mueller that's on the Russian boards and delivered the uranium on the tarmac to Russia a decade ago. It's incredible now that they're on the stormy Daniels.
That has nothing to do with Russia, because that's all they've got trying to push Trump into firing Mueller because he has nothing. So they want to make it look like Trump is scared of him and hiding something because Mueller came up empty
and has now moved on to basically a high-priced hooker 11 years ago. And we didn't elect Trump to be a saint. We elected him to get the job done as a CEO and turn the country around and make America great again.
So let me be clear, our military is on maximum alert right now. They're moving forces into the area. Trump said we're pulling out, saying no to the deep state,
and then there's a chemical attack in a rebel-held area where the rebels repeat have been caught not once, not twice, but three times staging these. Everybody can put two together.
So everybody needs to call Congress and the neocons. Call the left. Call them all that have been calling for war. And say, are you people insane? This is not Iraq. This is not Libya.
This is not some, you know, tinhorn dictator. This is Russia who's got a bunch of nuclear weapons and who's not done anything to us and who's helped us take on radical Islam.
So that's the reality of what's going on here, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm here letting the president know that we stand with him and are against a strike.
He's already bombed that Russian base with no evidence of the chemical weapons attack coming from there. And the Russians stood down that time.
They stood down again when a bunch of Russian contractors got blown up a few months ago. And so this tension is very, very high.
And the rhetoric out of Russia is we're prepared to counter-strike. If you strike us, we're going to strike you back.
The Kremlin has said that. Putin has said that. If you strike our forces that are trying to pull out, why in the hell would you not want the Russians to pull out of Syria?
That's everything the media claims they want is to get out of Syria. So the Russians are trying to pull out, and the leftists and the neocons and the globalists don't want that to happen.
The EU also funded the collapse of the Middle East and the Arab Spring to destabilize the border regions of Syria, Turkey, so that 10 million, quote, refugees, most of military-age men could come in to the country, into Europe, into the EU.
And so this is all part of a larger global destabilization program. And I'll assure you, if you see all these young people here, they're not being told about this at school.
They don't even probably know how close we are right now. How's it going, guys? Look at these guys right here. They don't know how close we are to war.
They don't understand how much danger we're all in and the things that are going on. But the president does.
So the president has canceled his trips. He's in there right now with his advisors, and they're telling him, you've got to look strong. You've got to strike these 24 targets.
You've got to kill these Russians because we can't let them get out of the country, sir. We've got to expand this war and endanger the whole planet.
Because after all, Obama and Hillary founded the Arab Spring in ISIS and sent al-Qaeda in with the Benghazi weapons.
And our whole global strategy is failing and America is coming back. So we've got to trick you as fast as possible into a new giant war.
And after all, sir, Mueller's on your heels, all this made-up stuff. If you look tough and bomb the Russians, well, that will really show them.
There's no amount of sanctions, no amount of troops on the Russian border, no amount of that will ever prove anything to Mueller unless you have a nuclear war.
If you have a big nuclear war, then Mueller, the real president of America, even though he's unelected, he will then be your buddy and love you.
And he can go back to meeting the Russians on tarmacs and giving them uranium.
So that's the insanity going on. And it's the deep state, it's the swamp, it's the bureaucracy manipulating the president. It's like they did John F. Kennedy into the Bay of Pigs, the Cuban Missile Crisis, you name it.
This is as bad as the Cuban Missile Crisis, but the Russians aren't in our hemisphere. They're not in Cuba. That had to be done.
They are here on our doorstep, that is the globalist, manipulating our president against Russia, and we are on their doorstep.
We are on the Russian doorstep being manipulated by the globalists. So I've come to the president, and I'm asking all our viewers and all our listeners,
and all of you that's going to be watching and listening on the radio today, to call Congress, to call talk radio, to call C-SPAN, to get a big buzz going and to call the White House,
switchboard, and to call Trump towers around the country, because those messages get to the president as well, and say, listen, we don't want nuclear war with Russia.
We want peace with Russia. Russia's Christian now. They're being free-market.
Compared to the Communist Chinese, they're not involved in our business. It's the Communist Chinese that have a whole task force threatening us in the South China Sea right now
and who are taking over islands and just engaged in very belligerent, blockade behavior. The Russians aren't doing any of that.
They worked with our military the last five years to try to take out ISIS, and now when they're trying to pull out, the globalists don't want that vacuum there where there's a sovereign country.
So they want to destabilize it. It's very, very dangerous. We've got to stop a potential nuclear war. We've got to stop a potential larger regional war,
because if you strike the Russian forces, they're going to counter-strike. Then there'll be counter-strikes on those forces.
If those forces start losing, then it goes to larger weapons, and we're off the races.
The Russians do have those high-powered Mach 5, Mach 6 missiles, the anti-ship missiles, and submarines of the Mediterranean that will end up sinking our ships.
And you end up getting sinking ships. Boom. It's World War 4. World War 3 was the Cold War. This is World War 4 information warfare.
The globalist versus nation states. It's the EU allied with radical Islam, with communist China, and Hollywood, and the globalists and the Vatican,
against America, against any sovereign nation, against Christians, against the Russians, against the Japanese and the South Koreans.
That's the real alliance against the globalists that's dug into our government.
So here they are in the White House, right now, counting down to potential World War 4, a new World War, and these people out here, I guarantee you, just watch Comedy Central,
and you'll think this is all a big joke. This is all extremely serious, ladies and gentlemen.
So now, let's zoom in on one of those windows. Now, inside there, right now, the President is sitting around his council table with the generals and others,
and he's been bucking, expanding the war, he's been pushing to get us out of there the whole time, something our Pentagon recommended years ago,
but Obama wanted to keep going on, and so now they're trying to use this crisis to push him in, right as peace was breaking out,
and right as the economy was coming back, and right as all this was happening, this is now unfolding.
So we also should be praying to God for peace, and for clear-headed thinking, and for support for the President,
because this is a globalist attack on him, and even if he ends up attacking Russia, they're still going to say he's a Russian agent.
He could nuke Russia and kill every person in the country with 1,000 hydrogen bombs, and I swear to God, they'll still say he's a Russian agent,
because they're the outsiders, they're the globalists that have hijacked the country, they're the ones that have surrounded us, they're the ones that have the swamp,
and so they're the outside enemy, they've got to continue to say that we're the enemy, the Patriots, restoring the country, restoring the military,
restoring our energy systems, restoring it all.
Alright folks, that's my last live transmission from DC, more coming today, Owen Shroyer and others will be hosting in studio,
but there'll be more reports as this unfolds, can't let peace break out, the swamp is striking back, but the people are striking back,
so folks, spread the word now, get this video out to everyone you know, we need a chain reaction to try to counter the globalists and this clear false flag chemical attack.
The last three were confirmed false flags, this fourth one has the MO, the history, everything, so it's critical to get this false flag exposed and to stop the globalists from trying to trigger a larger war that could lead to World War 4.
I'm Alex Jones, reporting from in front of the White House, here in Washington DC, for infowars.com and newswars.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon, I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious, I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel, I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Share your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide, also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original, or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press, all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Let's go to Devin and Florida. Devin and Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product, and I got to say they're amazing. Anyone who's on the fence, buy it, because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret swell, vitamin interfusion. I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the type of listener that makes it all possible. Which pharmaceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest. That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning, and I swear to you, I felt incredible. I haven't felt sweet. My morning was fantastic, and I love the guys, I love the info wars through, and I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. We are now in studio, filling in for Alex here. In the info wars world headquarters in Austin, Texas, I'm Owen Shroyer.
And it's pretty incredible that we sit here on the verge of World War III or World War IV, whichever way you want to say it.
What we were hoping to avoid by electing Donald Trump, we thought that would be Hillary Clinton that would have us in that situation.
But the deep state is trying to get its way again and may get its way with Trump as president.
But we got plenty of news to cover. So I'm going to cover all the news today, plenty of news to cover.
We've got great guest today, Dr. Shiva Ayadu Ray. You won't believe what Elizabeth Warren is doing to Shiva Ayadu Ray.
This is, in my opinion, racketeering at the highest levels of corruption.
What is going on with Elizabeth Warren and Shiva Ayadu Ray in that race? It's really unbelievable.
And then you've got Diamond and Silt coming on as well. So it's like the same angle.
See, Facebook, the deep state, everything is so desperate right now. They're going full bore.
They're using racketeering. They're using censorship. They're trying to take the guns. They're trying to start World War III.
They're using false flags. They're using fake investigations. It's all the same purpose.
And really, it's been to take Trump out of office. So they're doing everything they can.
They're censoring Trump supporters. They're censoring conservatives.
They're using the government to try to bring down their opponents. They're using the government for political purposes,
whether it be the Mueller investigation, whether it be the unbelievable story coming out with Shiva Ayadu Ray.
And as we sit here, I had the crew bring me all of Trump's most recent tweets,
because there was a tweet that I wanted to recall from 2013 from Trump.
So Trump tweets out early this morning, Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria.
Get ready, Russia, because they will be coming nice, new and smart. What a smart missile now.
You shouldn't be partners with a gas-killing animal who kills his own people and enjoys it.
Okay, so that's basically Trump indicating that he fully believes Assad is responsible for this.
And now he's saying they're going to shoot missiles at Syria.
But this is Donald Trump from September 9, 2013, and there's many tweets that are similar to this.
Don't attack Syria and attack that will bring nothing but trouble for US. Focus on making our country strong and great again.
That was 2013 from Donald Trump.
And you can go back at Trump's list of old tweets about Syria and foreign intervention, and they're all the same.
He's anti it. Now all of a sudden he's for it.
Is this because he's being bullied by the Deep State fake investigation into Trump-Russia collusion that never exists?
So he says, well, I'll prove it didn't exist. I'll go to war with Russia.
How about that for Russian collusion? How about that?
How about we go to the deadliest, bloodiest war of all time with Russia to prove that I didn't collude with Russia?
Or does he actually believe the chemical weapons attack in Syria was Assad so he's being tricked into war with Russia?
And if he was colluding with Russia the entire time, why wouldn't he have Syria's back in this matter being a Russian agent?
None of it makes sense.
But here's what you can do.
Because the president is listening and he will take notice if his entire base is reaching out to him saying, don't start a war with Russia over Syria.
You can contact the White House at WhiteHouse.gov.
And I'm sitting here asking myself, who wants this war?
I mean, really think about it. Who wants this? Who is calling for this?
And it's actually a very short list that happens to include Donald Trump.
Nikki Haley?
Where's the Nikki Haley tweet I had here today?
Here it is.
Remember, this is from June 26, 2017 from Nikki Haley.
Any further attacks done to the people of Syria will be blamed on Assad, but also on Russia and Iran who support him killing his own people.
And then Trump tweets out, to Russia you shouldn't be partners with a gas-killing animal who kills people and enjoys it.
So Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the UN, shows the deep state's hand and says they're planning an attack to blame on Assad, which will be then in turn pointed at Russia and Iran for supporting Syria.
So there's Nikki Haley showing the globalist hand to start World War III.
Right there, Russia knew about the stage attack coming.
They warned about the stage attack coming.
The stage attack happens just as every other one.
Media jumps to conclusion, White Hatcher there filming HD footage.
Media runs with the narrative.
President runs with the narrative.
And just as Nikki Haley warned, they blamed Assad immediately and then turned it to Iran and Russia.
And now Trump is playing World War III ping-pong with Russia and Syria as the ball.
And so who really wants this war?
John Bolton?
Is this a John Bolton, Neo-Conn-Hawk war-hawk war?
Is this a military industrial complex war?
Is this the human population decrease war that we fought with biological weapons and chemical weapons?
Or is it all a head fake?
Because Trump wants to be able to say, how can you say I'm colluding with Russia when I'm about to go to the biggest war in the history of the world with Russia?
So what are they going to say then?
Well, you're colluding with Russia to start war.
That's where they'll go.
Calm before the storm.
As Stormy Daniels is now the latest weapon they're using against President Trump.
It's unbelievable.
And again, there is no law for Robert Mueller.
There are no boundaries.
He doesn't answer to anyone.
He's above the president even, unelected.
There's the New York Times.
What did the president mean by calm before the storm?
Well, you're looking at it right now, New York Times, as we are entering the storm.
So folks, you know, just like Alex was saying in the video in the last segment, people need to know how serious this is.
You know, the average human doesn't even know what a false flag is.
Maybe they do at this point.
Maybe they do know what a globalist in the deep state and false flag is at this point in history.
Maybe that's finally permeated the average household, but they don't really understand what's going on.
You've seen it.
You've seen the lemming Trump supporters jump on war with Russia over Syria immediately, just like that.
Oh, they went right for it.
That's not us.
That's not who we are.
That's not who put Trump in office.
We don't want more foreign interventions.
Tucker Carlson, another great show last night, talking about the false flag, talking about how there's no proof, talking about how it would be irresponsible to go to another foreign war over these reports that have been proven false in the past multiple times,
even from John Bolton's people, even from Robert Mueller's people, the same people trying to do the same thing to start the same war to keep us in the same place.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Faketv.com
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Schipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church, and to get them right now at KillingUncleSamBook.com.
KillingUncleSamBook.com
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash, designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists, and there's satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
The reason infowarslife has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
Yeah, I actually have just run out of my Super Female. I had a few bottles at my house, and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is so luxurious once again.
So obviously the Super Female is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
What a five-star rating. It's a win-win, infowarslife.com.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Basically, I just went off what I saw of medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
The GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing. Red pill, now available at infowarslife.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
Here are the stories that illustrate where we are at right now, fellow humans on this space rock, hurtling through space and time as we understand it.
You've got false flag attacks in Syria that the media willingly lies about knowingly.
Tucker Carlson, you think he's the only one that knows what's going on, folks? Give me a break, okay? They know.
But yet still they go along with it and they'll allow that to reach the White House, and then Trump will use that false flag attack to instigate World War III with Russia.
Okay, so there's one story, you know, verge of World War III. Just one little story, right?
Then you've got the FBI raiding Michael Cohen's office, office, home, home being renovated.
FBI does multiple raids on Michael Cohen's properties, seizing documents, and act that many in the legal field and legal experts are saying was illegal, and very dangerous considering the precedent it could be setting.
Well, you can just go raid anyone's office. I mean, think about it. Imagine if the same principle that was applied to investigating Trump was applied to every senator and every member of Congress, and they all had their lawyers' offices raided and documents seized.
What do you think we would find in Nancy Pelosi's closet, in Chuck Schumer's closet, in Eric Swalwell's closet, in Kamala Harris's closet? Okay, so there you go. So verge of World War III and rogue attorneys, rogue FBI offices going fully rogue, no privacy rights, no rights to counsel, nothing.
They can just take anything, seize anything, no laws. They're above the law. You're just a peon. You're a slave. You're subject to whatever the government wants and says.
So that's the obvious stuff that everybody's talking about. But how about this? How about being on the verge of AI, if not already being in the middle of it?
Mark Zuckerberg, and we've got the quote, we'll play the clip a little bit later, says he's optimistic that the AI tools they're putting into Facebook are going to remove hate speech.
Then you've got AI crime predicting AI rolling out in India. So you've got social media using AI to target hate speech. Then you've got AI being used in China and India now to help in the crime fighting process.
Then Elon Musk warns AI could create an immortal dictator from which we can never escape. What if we're already there and we don't even know it yet?
And think about this as well. This is not one of my fields that I consider myself to be that well-versed on AI and tech stuff.
I read about it so I can have a discussion, but I'm not that well-versed on it. But here's what I'm thinking. If this is how we're rolling out AI, if we're rolling out AI to censor hate speech and to fight crime, think about what we're grooming for the future of AI.
If we are essentially creating AI and grooming it, and this is how it's being nurtured, think about what we're nurturing for the future of AI.
It's going to think that the biggest problems are speech and making sure crime is stopped.
So think about a dictator that operates like that, that's main focuses are censoring hate speech and stopping crime. How long before everyone ends up in a prison camp under that AI system? And that's what Elon Musk is warning.
So there you go. No more laws. Government can do anything. Show me the man. I'll show you the crime.
On the brink of World War 3 with Russia over a false flag in Syria that media and the government is going along with while nobody else wants this war. And then you've got AI being rolled out and experts saying it could become an immortal dictator.
Still want to watch the Jersey Shore? Still want to watch who's got talent? Still want to know who Kim Kardashian is dating or her sisters are dating? Still want to make sure you know about every player on your favorite ball team?
Well, if you do, I guess I'm actually envious of you. That you can live in such eternal bliss while the entire planet is on the verge of potential extinction.
Whether it be AI, whether it be World War 3, whether it be a team of lawyers that looks into every human being with no bounds and no laws. Find me the man. I'll find you the crime.
And that's where we're at. And that's where we're at. Now, let's real quick focus on why this situation with Mueller is so dangerous. Listen to what Rand Paul said on Fox last night that really puts it all into perspective.
So I think this investigation no longer has much to do with Russia. But I would warn people around America who say, oh, they don't like the president. Oh, this is just fine because it's against President Trump. This is an enormous power that can be used against anybody.
You remember what Chuck Schumer said a couple of months ago? He says, if you cross the intelligence agencies, they can screw you six ways to Sunday. This is about enormous power, prosecutorial power, but also power in the intelligence communities.
We have to rein this in or every American citizen is exposed to this kind of abuse.
How would you rein it in? We should find a major political crisis. Fire, Mueller potentially will talk about that.
You're right. It's actually hard politically to fire Mueller. But the thing is, we never should have had perhaps not the right thing to do at this time given too much power to a prosecutor who's no longer looking at Russia.
He's looking at some kind of personal dealings with the president's lawyer. And imagine once they get this, they've got all of the information that the president was never looking at Russia, though.
Oh, we're not going to use the stuff that's attorney-client privilege, but they're going to read it. And you think once they've read it, it might give them ideas of other places to look. There's this concept called parallel construction.
They don't actually use the information they read. So think about this. So as Rand Paul correctly points out, don't forget about Chuck Schumer.
I mean, the intelligence agencies, they got five ways of Sunday to getting back at you.
Well, what the hell does that mean? Do you just threaten the president with the intelligence agencies? Oh, and then what do the intelligence agencies do?
They lie about Russian collusion. They lie about a chemical attack in Syria, and then they box Trump into a corner where he's either forced into World War III with Russia, or he has to back down to a chemical attack in Syria because he's a Russian agent.
Oh, is that what you were talking about? You dirty rat, Chuck Schumer? But now Chuck Schumer has introduced a bill to protect Robert Mueller from being fired. Guys, roll clip 16.
By his own words, it's clear the president may, may be considering firing the special counsel.
That is one of the dirtiest rats in political history, this guy.
And on a bipartisan basis, by reaffirming our belief that the president cannot fire special counsel without law, without force.
Give that rat a piece of cheese.
And by passing legislation.
You like cheese, you little rat?
At any attempts to remove Robert Mueller will be unsuccessful. We should not abide the president's attempted assault on the rule of law in America.
All right, take this rat off, take him down, take him down, pot him down.
So, so, so lawless Mueller, we're going to protect lawless Mueller while Mark Zuckerberg is going to test the creator of Facebook who he's giving a testimony under oath. We need to get his testimony two days in a row, live, total political theater, total distraction.
We need to get Mueller on a stand. That's who needs to be testified. That's who needs to be questioned right now by Congress.
But he's lawless. He's above everything. He's supposed to look into Russian inclusion. Now he's raiding Trump's attorney's offices, raiding Trump's attorney's homes, taking documents pertaining to some relationship in the past with a porn star.
Totally lawless, totally illegal. And Chuck Schumer says we have to protect this individual. Why?
And then there's this other angle. It's like, are they trying to bait Trump into firing Mueller so that they can get him for obstruction of justice?
Or are they actually afraid that he will fire Mueller and they'll have nothing left to try to take him out? Again, it's all insane. It's all insane.
We created a stronger formula than some of the best-selling formulas out there. It's very simple. We went out and looked, what is the top? What is the best?
We'll just put even more product in. We'll make it better. Leading competitors put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60. We put $10 in it and sell it for $30.
It's $19.95 right now. So you get an incredible top-of-the-line new tropic for $19.95. Believe me, when we're selling it for $35 on average, we need that $15, $20 we make to fund this operation in the face of the globalists, the rest of it.
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks. I want to shell it all out before the big supply comes in.
And I want people that haven't tried BrainForce to try it and find out why. It's got 6,000-plus five-star reviews. It's amazing.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in Fuller's life. It'd take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
It's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's got a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the infowar to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and the rest assured you're fighting the infowar so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try alpha power.
Exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
Our super high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience low metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Well, Alex Jones has been in D.C. invading the swamp a lot of activity, a lot of great videos, a lot of great reports coming from the swamp, but he will be back in studio tomorrow when we kick off the 34-hour live broadcast spectacular.
And this is all made possible with your support at infowarsstore.com. So take advantage of some of the specials that we have rolling on some of our most popular products such as Alpha Power, which is currently 25% off.
Cell Force is 50% off. BOD Ease is 25% off as well. So those are some of the most popular products that we have discounts on.
How about the Mind and Body Challenge pack, which features Brain Force Plus, another popular product, and the real red pill. That pack is a 50% off pack combo right there.
So take advantage of that. And of course, we're worried about our extremely popular 4.9 star review, Survival Shield X2.
We're worried about having a limited supply of that in the very near future. In fact, perhaps even running out of that formula. So take advantage of, and it's 25% off, I believe, too.
So we're literally running out. It's becoming a more scarce product and we're cutting the price. So this could be the last chance that we ever have this formula.
That looks like the ad. So we might now know your last chance for pure, affordable, high quality iodine. So it's almost impossible to source this now, especially that we've created this market.
And there's all this competition. But that's the best right there, Survival Shield X2, 25% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
Get it before it runs out of stock. 4.9 star reviews over 6,000 reviews. I challenge you to find another product that has that great of a rating in the rating system that actually verifies the rating.
So there you go. Survival Shield X2, 25% off, could be the last run. 4.9 star review right now at Infowarsstore.com.
Check out the hats. Check out the ball caps. Become an auto-ship subscriber with the toothpaste, with the shampoo. Stuff like that that you know you're going to need.
Brainforce Plus, whatever the case may be, you get on auto-ship. You also get a 10% discount. And right now, when you have an order of $50 or more, you get free shipping.
So take advantage of all the specials. And if you like the expansion of Infowars, if you like us hiring more reporters, doing more live broadcasts, doing more live 34-hour deals, having Alex on the road, having me on the road, having multiple reporters on the road,
then support us at Infowarsstore.com. And if you want to rub your thumb in the eye of George Soros or Anderson Cooper, then go to Infowarsstore.com.
Because nothing angers them more than the fact that they can't stop you from supporting us. Nothing angers the deep state and the globalist more than the fact they cannot stop you from spending your money at Infowarsstore.com and expanding our operations.
And that's how you make it all possible. And that's how we can come out here and use our platform that reaches millions of people to say,
we don't want World War III with Russia. America doesn't want World War III with Russia.
Trump's base does not want World War III with Russia. We don't believe the intelligence reports that say Assad is launching chemical attacks on his own people.
In fact, they're so lazy and nonchalant about their false flags now, they don't even do the due diligence of coming up with a motive, coming up with evidence.
No, they just tell you, Nikki Haley tweets out in June, in the future, we're blaming any and all attacks in Syria on Assad,
even though the United States with John McCain and Barack Obama is arming the Syrian rebels, they've been sending arms and money over there, don't tell anyone that.
But any attacks in Syria are Assad's faults, even though the armed rebels that McCain was meeting with actually left 30 tons of chemical weapons behind when they were kicked out of the country.
No, no, no, it's all Assad.
And so that's why Info Wars exists. That's why they hate us at CNN and MSNBC and ABC and CBS because they can't control the narrative.
In fact, we're bigger than them now. They don't even know what to do because we're bigger than them.
It used to be, okay, Info Wars, kind of a voice in the dark, all right, okay, Alex Jones is kind of growing now.
Well, okay, maybe if we just demonize him and make up lies about him, we'll keep him down and then it just empowered him more and he got bigger.
And now Info Wars is one of the most impactful news organizations in the world.
CNN dreams of the day that it has the impact and the audience of Info Wars. Let me tell you, oh, there's the London Telegraph.
John McCain denies he knowingly posed with rebel kidnappers in Syria. I wasn't there, that wasn't me.
Mr. McCain, we have the photo and we have you on tape bragging about it.
No, what are you? Oh, my brain tumor. I've forgotten.
Sad. Really sad.
And so it doesn't matter. Again, they run the false flag. Don't even give an Assad motive.
Don't even show us the evidence. Just say, yep.
Yep, it was Assad. And we already told you it was Assad back in June before it even happened. You understand?
I'm Nikki Haley from the U.N. Ambassador for the United States. I can predict the future.
I am a psychic. I'm Nikki Haley. I told you in June that Assad would attack his own people.
Or, well, actually, I told you that we'd blame Assad. I didn't say Assad would attack his own people.
I just said we'd blame Assad. And so that's what we did. Because I'm Nikki Haley. I predict the future.
I can see everything. Oh, it doesn't matter that every other chemical attack has been proven not to be Assad and shown to be a false flag.
It doesn't matter that we have multiple instances of footage coming out of Syria where they're claiming it's an attack or this, that, or the other thing.
That ends up being fake footage, staged.
Remember the Syrian boy that went totally viral? And it turned out it was all fake?
You don't remember if you weren't watching Fox News. You don't remember if you were watching CNN.
You only remember if you were watching Info Wars. Oh, yeah, this is the new one, right, guys? The Syrian girl was playing yesterday.
Oh, oh, oh, the white hat. Okay, yeah, these are the same white hats that are there every time there's some attack.
And here they are, are taping a mannequin challenge and then, oh, he's hurt. Oh, help me.
Yeah, it's magic, though. Don't you see? It's called World War Three Magic.
And we can't, we cannot, we cannot get behind this. We have to show Trump. You have to let Trump know you don't want World War Three with Russia.
Email the White House. Email your local congressman. Email your local representatives.
Tell them they're not getting your vote again if they don't send a message to Trump saying they don't want World War Three with Russia.
Here's a BBC story, Mother Agnes, serious detective nun who says gas attack filmed faked. They've been caught filming these things faking them multiple times.
You know, see why they want Info Wars shut down? You can't start World War Three with fake news if there's real news telling the people it's fake news.
It's not going to happen on CNN or MSNBC. Thank God for Tucker Carlson willing to step out on a limb and question what's going on in Syria and not want to go to World War Three with Russia.
Oh, be a good American, Tucker. Be a good American. War, we want war. We want war. No, we don't want war. We're sick of war.
I can't even drive down a road in Austin without hitting a damn pothole. But let's go to war in Syria because we're a, we're neocon hawks.
I'm the walrus John Bolton. You don't get away with a false flag on my watch or I guess you do get away with the false flag and then I go to war with Russia.
And this is all going on. And you know, where again, where are the peacenik liberals? Searching, searching, where are the peacenik anti-war liberals? Where is Bernie Sanders?
Anybody seen him? Anybody heard from Bernie Sanders? Hello? Anybody heard from CNN and MSNBC?
What, now you want war with Russia? Okay, here's the latest segment. In this segment on CNN and MSNBC, we're going to tell you all about Trump colluding with Russia.
In the next segment, we'll tell you about how relations with Russia are worse than ever and we're going to war with Russia because of Trump.
And then their average audience viewer is so dumbed down, so ignorant, has the mind of a goldfish that they actually fall for it, even though they give you two different flavors of propaganda in back-to-back segments that do not work when you compare the two, but they still fall for it.
And so here we are again. The intelligence agencies have five ways of Sunday of getting mad at you. The intelligence agencies say that Assad gassed his own people.
Oh my gosh, we have to go to war with Russia. The intelligence agencies say Trump colluded with Russia. Oh my gosh, we have to probe Trump Russia.
Thanks for telling us, Chuck Schumer, about the intelligence agencies and how corrupt they are. Thanks for showing us, Nikki Haley, that this whole thing was a planned event. Thanks, guys. We still don't want World War III, though, so please don't bomb us.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and awards shows to repeat their narrative over and over again. And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia, to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding, until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America, and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
We're free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting. Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are going live for 34 hours, an emergency broadcast.
Stop World War III Emergency Broadcast. Kicks off tomorrow, 8am central. It rolls right on through the conclusion of the war room on Friday at 6pm central.
And it's all about blasting out into the information sphere that we don't want World War III, we don't believe your lies from your intelligence communities anymore that get us into World Wars and foreign interventions, so we're done with you.
We the people, we're told by President Trump we can take our government back. So let's do it. Let's refuse to go to World War III.
How can Trump have a mandate to go to World War III with Russia if we the people don't want it?
So we have an emergency transmission tomorrow, kicks off at 8am central, runs through Friday at 6pm central, 34 hours live broadcast, stop World War III.
So then your role is to share the links. Tell your friends, tell your family, hey look, you know we're on the verge of World War III right now?
Oh you don't? Well here, check this out. Listen to this information and maybe you'll be awakened from your comatose. And that's the goal.
And you would think of all the Trump haters out there that march every weekend, come up with new hashtags, come up with new fake news stories, come up with new angles and everything to try to bring them down.
You'd think that they'd have something to say about World War III with Russia but they're silent. Isn't that amazing?
Well we're not silent because we're not cowards and frauds and we actually care about this country in the future.
Not just buzz words and hashtags and lingo and virtue signaling. So we want to stop World War III.
And you know what, it'd be nice if you liberals out there that hate Trump and even hate us would join us in that.
That'd be great. I know you're emailing Trump every day in the White House, you know, probably cursing him out, threatening his family, all that good stuff that you guys normally do.
If you could just take a step back from your high horse of threatening conservatives and trying to, you know, destroy a duly elected president.
If you could just step away from that for a second, trying to bring down America and try to stop World War III with us, that'd be great.
That'd be really nice. I'd really like that. And you can hate us the whole time and go back to hating us after we stop it.
But please, join us to stop World War III.
Even the young turds. Heck, even the young turds.
I mean, I'd imagine the young turds have to be against intervening in Syria, but maybe they love it too.
Maybe they're loving it too. Maybe they want Trump to start World War III so they can call him the evil dictator.
I don't care if millions of people die in World War as long as I can call Trump an evil dictator.
Or how about calling him a mob boss, which is apparently what James Comey called him in his interview with George Step On All of Us from ABC.
They've just released an excerpt for that upcoming interview. Listen to this madness.
There's George Step On All of Us.
James Comey.
The exclusive interview everyone will be talking about.
Stefanopoulos. Comey. This Sunday night at a special time. 10-9 central on ABC.
And of course that's going to be Sunday night ABC. James Comey publicizing his new book.
And then force-feeding whoever watches George Step On All of Us at ABC propaganda about President Trump.
Calling him a mob boss.
Should he impeach? Should he be far? Is he obstructing justice? What is Comey going to say?
It'll be pretty interesting actually, but you know what, if you go back and you look at George Step On All of Us,
Step On All of Us' history, that guy's been fake news for decades. Fake news, George Step On All of Us, ABC.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in Fuller's life.
It takes hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preclinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
The deep state, the globalists, the enemies of America.
Well, they're really pulling out all the stops right now to try to stop America from staying independent and sovereign,
not going into a world government and controlling its own destiny.
And part of that process, obviously, is to do everything. They can't demonize Trump, bring him down, put him into a corner.
And then, of course, they've got the censorship with censoring people on social media like Diamond and Silk, who've got coming up in the next hour.
And now they're taking it to even new levels of what, to me, looks like straight-up political racketeering, which is pretty suspicious that this would be going on in Massachusetts,
where Dr. Shiva Ayudhure is running against one of the lead swamp creatures, Elizabeth Warren.
Now, Dr. Shiva has made headlines in the past with some of his campaign tactics, offering Elizabeth Warren a DNA test,
because she said she was an Indian when she's not, you know, challenging her on Monsanto and the policies that she's had with Monsanto.
But now it's gone to a new low. There is the bus right there.
Now, this bus sits outside of Dr. Shiva Ayudhure's headquarters. Only a real Indian can defeat the fake Indian.
Well, now, local law enforcement has threatened Shiva with a fine of $300 a day if he does not remove that billboard from the bus that sits in front of his office in Massachusetts.
Now, Dr. Shiva, I have to say, when I first heard about the story and I'm looking into this, I don't know if you've, if you've seeked any counsel from attorneys or anything like that,
how is this not political racketeering? This seems to me like straight up cold cut case political racketeering.
Well, when you got to understand Massachusetts is one of the most corrupt states in all the United States, I think in the last public integrity report,
it was rated 47th out of 50. The entire state runs on racketeering. If you really think about it, the only thing that produces anything in Massachusetts is probably the high tech workers
and the working people. You know, MIT produced 33,000 jobs, businesses, which created about two trillion annual revenue for the U.S. UDP,
but everything else is complete racketeering. That slogan that you just read, only a real Indian can defeat the fake Indian, is what bothers them.
For nearly 14 months, as you know, the bus is, you know, it's my building. We don't have any logos or banners on the building,
but that bus used to have the slogan, which says, you've a fight for America. Prior to St. Patrick's Day, we changed it to this slogan,
which as you know, you guys showed it in St. Patrick's Day, millions of people just loved it. So subsequent to that, we got a,
apparently the city of Cambridge said they got anonymous complaints saying we need to take that slogan down.
So it's completely political racketeering, but more importantly, it's violation of the free speech,
probably violation of the 14th Amendment, equal protection. So obviously we seek counsel and we're not going to let them do this.
In fact, oh, and to everyone listening, we're going to escalate this. We're probably going to get another bus and probably three more pickup trucks.
And that symbol only the real Indian can defeat the fake Indian. Anyone who's listening, you know, we have a supplier who supports our campaign.
You can get it on the side of your own vehicle. Just go up to our website and donate 100 bucks or more and we'll ship it out to you.
But the bottom line is, Owen, what you're looking at is that the left and the right hates that slogan because we're the ones who are seen as a real opposition to war.
Because the right wing, I don't want to say right wing, but the establishment in Massachusetts, the GOP establishment has no intent of beating Elizabeth Warren.
They coddle to her. In fact, you have Charlemagne Baker who's taking selfies with her at the St. Patrick's Day.
He didn't even have the decency to attend the vice president's dinner event, nor did he send anyone.
So you're looking at total collusion of the sewer rats which feed the swamp in D.C.
But it tells me how threatened they are by you that they are willing to go with such blatant political racketeering.
It really shows that you're scaring the establishment in Washington. It really shows you're scaring Elizabeth Warren.
And so they call you and you're telling me they say they have anonymous complaints about your bus.
They're saying people are calling in with anonymous complaints.
Yeah, one of our campaign managers behind me, Mike Mosca, talked to the city of Cambridge and he said, look, you're the building department.
What jurisdiction do you have on a bus? Okay, this is a bus.
So the next thing they're going to do is probably start regulating all of us driving around in our vehicles.
And we start posting whatever rights we have on free speech, symbols that we want on our own vehicles.
Exactly. This is beyond political racketeering. This is now an attack on free speech.
Because what are they going to say? You can't have a bumper sticker that says anything.
I mean, you can't have a bumper sticker that says make America great again. I mean, that's, that's where this goes.
That's exactly where it goes. The other interesting thing on is on Monday is Patriots Day.
Everyone should remember the first shot was fired for the revolution in Lexington.
But in Lexington Concord, one of the first battles took place is a academy and you got to check this out. This was just even more breaking news than this.
A Concord Academy, a nice, elitist school.
The headmaster of that school apparently released an announcement.
One of the students was afraid of being ostracized.
This wrote to me and he said the headmaster told all the students that there's going to be misogynists.
There's going to be racist anti-Muslim people coming to our city to do a Patriots Day event.
And they're referring to us and we're going to, we're concerned about the safety of our children with these guys.
So that's what's going on. So it's awesome for us in many ways, spectacularly awesome.
Because you remember what happened with the free speech rally, right? 40 of us against 40,000.
And it was truly a free speech rally. We fought for free speech.
And here again, it's Elizabeth Warren, she's who's unleashed the city of Cambridge.
Because they're all, as you say, I think the word you use, political racketeering is absolutely right.
Oh, and that's what's going on. And that's what, you know, Massachusetts has always been known for.
That's why...
Well, this is why Massachusetts needs you.
But this is why Massachusetts needs Cheeviere.
This is why the Senate needs Cheeviere because you're a fighter and you're also a very brilliant man.
You happen to be the inventor of email, but, you know, they won't, they won't credit you with that.
The left will actually act like you don't even exist. But I wanted to know, and you already talked about this,
what is your response to this? I mean, are you, are you going to take the billboard down?
No, you're going to put more billboards out there.
So what are they going to do when you put more billboards out there?
You expand this fake Indian campaign and they continue to levy fines against you.
How is this going to go?
Well, look, we're going to escalate. You know, what you do is when they attack you, you escalate.
Because we know that fundamental what we've done is that both sides are afraid of us and we need to escalate.
Bottom line is, oh, and the people love that slogan.
Only a real Indian can defeat a fake Indian. And why do they like it?
Because I'm a real American. You're a real American.
And fundamentally, the core of what we're saying is the real Indians, real Americans, if you go to real indigenous people,
we lived in decentralized environments, right?
We lived with nature. We supported local governance.
We didn't support the deep state and centralized government.
That slogan goes at the heart of the deep state and our goal is to destroy the deep state.
And the center of the deep state is right here in Massachusetts.
Both the Mass GOP and the Democratic Party are the sewer, literally the center of the deep state.
And what we are conducting right here, Owen, is a second American revolution.
That's what's taking place in Massachusetts.
And everyone listening out there, all of you should start putting up this banner.
Only a real Indian can defeat the fake Indian. Because I'm telling you, that's going to become the dog whistle of this next revolution that's coming.
Because people are tired of, I mean, look what just happened to Trump.
They're invading his lawyer's offices, violating all of his property.
I want to get into that on the other side with you.
But I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you really have to have them afraid right now.
If they're willing to do this blatant racketeering, if they're willing to try to levy these fines against you,
to get you to take down these posters.
And, you know, another thing, Elizabeth Warren has been pretty silent lately.
You haven't really heard much from Elizabeth Warren.
It sounds like she's trying to stay out of the press right now.
And I think that's another sign that you have her scared.
Well, look, both sides, I think both sides had a huddle and probably told her to go to Beijing for a while.
That's where she is, you know, thinking she's some great statesman or something
and probably colluding with the Chinese against the American people.
Chinese government, that is.
That's what Elizabeth Warren's really up to.
But the bottom line is, Owen, we're going to escalate this.
We're in the middle of getting another big bus that's going to also say only a real Indian can defeat a fake Indian.
Frank, who's right behind me, you know, is a local electrician who lives up in Massachusetts.
He built everything we do.
We built that bus on our own by citizens and students.
We painted it on our own.
There's no people that we're relying on to go buy a bus.
Yeah, you're the real deal.
And they're scared to death of you getting in.
They hate that slogan because it's so real.
And now they're trying.
I mean, they're essentially bribing you. I mean, this is nuts.
Take that sign down or we're going to find you.
How about kiss my ass? This is America.
That's what I'm talking about.
877-886-3653, goberky.com.
Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
That's libertyoncall.org.
InfoWarsLife Brain Force Plus is our number one selling product by leaps and bounds.
And for a good reason.
Going back about five years ago, we did research on what top selling new tropics were,
what were most popular, what were best, what people liked.
And we made it even stronger.
Then we cut the price because leading competitors have five to seven times markup.
We only have 150% and then it helps funder operation.
Well, now it's 50% off.
That means we've got a 25% markup.
And we've got it paired with the real red pill that takes about seven days to kick in.
Brain Force takes about 30 minutes, but the two go together.
It's the mind and body challenge.
They're both 50% off individually or together they're 50% off and free shipping with the combo at infowarslife.com.
But it's got to end in a couple days because both of these best sellers are about to sell out.
InfoWarsLife.com to get your Brain Force Plus and real red pill today.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber.
A mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Well, my guest is Dr. Shiva Ayodhure, inventor of email and he's running for senate against Elizabeth Warren and he has Elizabeth Warren and the deep state in Massachusetts.
It's very scared, so scared in fact that they're now levying fines against Dr. Ayodhure because he has a bus in front of his office that has a billboard on it that says only a real Indian can defeat a fake Indian.
So now they're telling him, take it down or we're going to find you $300 a day.
Now, if that's not political racketeering, I don't know what is.
There is the bus right there.
And of course, this is a very popular slogan.
It's funny, it's creative and it's getting attention and that's why they have to stop it.
That's why they have to censor Dr. Ayodhure's free speech.
That's why they're engaging in political racketeering.
And so, just like I would suspect from my guest, he's decided his response is going to be, well, you know what, $300 a day for having this billboard in the parking lot.
Let's put 12 of them in the parking lot.
How about that?
Go ahead and try to charge me that.
We'll put 12 buses in the parking lot and then we'll hand out 12,000 around the city for people to put in their yards and we'll just go with that.
I'll tell you what.
Usually I like, Dr. Shiva Ayodhure, here's what we're going to do.
Brilliant idea came from one of the producers here and I think it's a brilliant idea.
You contemplate this idea.
I'm going to throw it out there.
We'll get a raw response from you, but I want you to contemplate this idea.
What if you told Elizabeth Warren you will remove the bus and the sign from the office if she agrees to take the DNA test?
What about that?
I want you to don't provide an answer, just contemplate on that.
It's just incredible.
Now they're censoring your free speech and they're engaging in political racketeering all because they're afraid you might get in and shake things up.
The bottom line is that slogan, only a real Indian can defeat the fake Indian pretty much says it all, not only against Warren, but it says it against all these career politicians.
Look, they're all fakes.
None of them are real people.
They don't solve any real problems. In fact, they don't know how to solve a problem.
You look at Elizabeth Warren and what she's actually done in Massachusetts and it's been zilch for that matter for this country.
What she has done is create an environment where we've consolidated the deep state.
We essentially have the highest income inequality in Massachusetts.
The average net worth of a poor black person is $8, literally within a two mile distance from her own home.
And then you look at the situation that for every 17 skill job openings in Massachusetts, only one person is skilled.
And meanwhile, Harvard runs as a tax free hedge fund, $40 billion.
She never says anything about them.
Nor does Charlie Baker, who's a quote unquote a Republican governor.
In fact, out of the three guys running against Warren and the Republicans, one of them is backed by the Saudis.
The Saudi Robashaw, I'm sorry, we call her Holly Robashaw, the campaign manager for one of them was funded by the Saudis to manipulate veterans into going to lobby against a bill which was to protect 9-11 victims.
And that's one of the quote unquote Republicans who actually, we just found out that he was a Democrat because he voted for Joe Biden less than a decade ago.
And he's been a Democrat as long as Warren's been a Democrat.
That's what's going on in Massachusetts.
None of these people want to take on the deep state because they're part of the deep state.
That's why that slogan is so powerful.
And that's why we saw millions coming out on St. Patrick's State, blacks, white, Indians, people of all color, cheering us on, only a real Indian can defeat the fake Indians.
And that's why they're trying to shut it down.
And that's why they're trying to shut it down.
And this is the type of campaign you run, just creative, outside of the box, and they hate it.
They hate it.
So you know what?
You wanted to get in a street fight with Dr. Shiva Iyadu Ray.
Well, you picked the wrong guy because now you're going to have 12 buses and you're going to have street signs and only a real Indian can defeat a fake Indian is now just going to go viral.
So thank you to the city and to the state of Massachusetts for engaging in political racketeering against Shiva Iyadu Ray.
You might be a little racist.
We won't go there yet.
You might be a little racist for engaging in political racketeering against Dr. Shiva Iyadu Ray, but we'll save that for later.
But Dr., before we let you go here, you were mentioning something very important in the last segment and it's very precedent-sitting.
Not is it just precedent-sitting what you're dealing with with this racketeering, but also what now the FBI is doing at Mueller's behest,
going in, raiding lawyers' offices, talk about the dangers of the precedent being set right now by Mueller, his team, and the FBI,
where they can just raid anyone, they're lawless, they're above the law, unelected, can investigate in anybody,
and it's just like Russian inclusion, no, they're investigating anything.
Talk about that dangerous precedent.
Well, look, the reason we had a revolution in this country was because of illegal search and seizure, right?
Let's not forget that.
We had the fact that the British were telling us what weapons we could have and what weapons we could not have.
They were seizing them.
Tell me, Owen, what is different right now than that climate when the personal lawyer of the President of the United States gets raided
and his material gets removed, you're first of all violating attorney-client privileges,
but more importantly, you're violating the fundamentals of what this country is that you can have the right to legal counsel
and it's protected from the state.
And Mueller doing this either for one of two reasons to force Trump's hand, so he does something against Mueller.
I have a theory that you see Paul Ryan, you know, one of the, and when Paul Ryan, when John McCain,
and then when you have someone like Howard Dean all on the same side, think about what's going on with Syria.
They all want Trump to go bomb the hell out of Syria now, right?
And Putin, they want to start a war and they want to put Trump as escape code of that because a deep state is essentially completely suffocating right now
with the fact that people are rising up and they understand what's going on in this country.
So they're trying to play chess moves.
So separate from the fundamentals of the Constitution, in my view, being violated by what we saw happen with Cohen being attacked
as a search and seizure, what's going on tests in Massachusetts, and also you have a scumbag, excuse my term,
like Mark Zuckerberg, if anyone saw that hearing, it was a complete joke.
Here's a guy who makes billions of dollars actually selling advertising.
He sells data and that whole thing is being sort of whitewashed over in these hearings.
They're setting it up where he'll probably apologize.
He'll say it makes them idealist comments.
And the net of it is they're going to throw Cambridge Analytica, one of their customers under the bus,
who was simply using the data that they have the right to use based on how Facebook said that they could use the data.
So in my view, we're living in a very, very important time.
You have a slogan like real Indian, fake Indian being attacked.
You have people being not allowed, censored on Facebook and an organization deciding what's hate speech, what's not hate speech.
And then you have the president of the United States lawyer being raided.
I mean, how much worse is it going to get?
Exactly, they censor.
So that's exactly it.
They censor the digital platform, like getting diamond and silk off Facebook.
They censor the real 3D world, physical world reality by trying to get you to remove your sign from a parking lot.
These people are total control freaks and they're totally desperate.
And if they can pin World War 3 on Trump, they think that they can get his base to betray him.
And I guess they're right because we don't want the World War.
We don't want this intervention.
And again, I asked this earlier, where are the peacenik liberals that don't want foreign interventions and don't want more expanded wars?
I'm not hearing a peep from them, Dr. Ayodhure.
Exactly.
This is a fascinating thing to watch CNN, to watch a nut job like Howard Dean, Lindsey Graham, John McCain,
all coming together.
This is no different than when Hillary Clinton ran.
You have the Romney's, you have the Obama's, you have the Bushes and the Clintons all come together against the establishment candidate.
So I think we're living in very, very exciting times and it's a great opportunity for a new revolution to take place, whatever form that takes place.
And it's not going to be easy.
It wasn't easy in 1776.
It's not going to be easy now.
But if we win this revolution, we change the world forever.
Shiva4Senate.com, Shiva4Senate.com, if you want 12 buses that say a real Indian can defeat a fake Indian, go to Shiva4Senate.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon.
Savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life.
NASA PAC technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon.
Or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon.
10 year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you have the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
This essential mineral, sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep earth iodine crystals,
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain,
and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in Full Wars Life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarstore.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
It looks like he's starting to fail it.
We had a chemical attack a few days ago.
It was clearly a false flag inside Syria.
The Russians announced they're pulling out.
Rebels have been caught three times staging chemical attacks before.
The Globals want to keep that conflict going.
The same globals that back to ISIS and al-Qaeda.
And now Trump has said he's looking in the next 24 hours or so at the possibility of striking 20-plus Russian targets.
Now, Paul Watson is reported on infowarstore.com, state department statements, and others,
that Trump's planning to hit 70 targets or that that's on the table right now,
including Russian military bases and air bases and an naval base,
where the Russians are already pulling out.
This is insane.
The Russians went in to stop the al-Qaeda, ISIS forces.
Now, the neocons on the left are on Trump's ass about Russiagate.
I think probably blackmailing him, not with some kind of Russiagate stuff,
like Daniel's, start World War III.
True insane scum in D.C.
Bipartisan total filth.
The same type of terroristic lawsuits we see filed against such a shutdown-free speech.
They're after our guns.
They're just pure authoritarians, like the Nazis, like the Soviets.
The poor Russians have done nothing to us.
And it's this litmus test of being beat over the head until you accept a huge war.
The Russians went in and did what we should have done.
The Russian military backed it five years ago, blocked Obama, but now it is just a real...
...family.
See my wife and baby right over there.
I took on the D.C. trip with me.
And it just makes me really, really upset that I'm a father,
and I love my family, and this type of crap's going on.
Yeah, Trump brought the economy back and got us out of the TPP and all this globalism.
But the cancer that is the globalists, Bipartisan, is just unbelievable.
And shame on all the Twitter bots, and Google bots, and YouTube bots, and Facebook bots,
who get your stuff promoted so you attack America, you attack me, you attack Trump.
All of you are the ones driving this towards total war and your whole BS Russian era.
There's my wife right there. There's my baby.
And they just don't want to live in a nuclear war.
They don't want to have this kind of crap happen.
And America's on the wrong side of this, man.
This is absolutely wrong. I'm sick of it.
I don't just show you my daughter, love an uncle or daughter, ever.
I just show it to you, because naturally it's on the line. Your children, too.
I'm so sick of this crap.
I'm flying back to Austin, hoping nuclear war doesn't start long in the air for three hours.
I tell people I've taken freedom for granted so long,
we'll bring the Islamists in, the attacks, they take our freedom,
some of the globalists are allied with it.
And then I guess who checked us coming in was nothing but women and burkas.
Headdress is total joke.
I mean, it is just such an unbelievable joke.
The globalists are allied with radical Islam.
They're allied with the EU. They're allied with the Communist Chinese.
It's not the Russians. The Russians have pulled out of the globalist system
after 85 years being under their control.
And that's why the globalists want them back under their control.
Everybody else under control.
It's about raw, satanic power.
All right, call the White House, call Congress, call Seisman, create a huge buzz,
and know you don't use some... I saw a comment earlier,
a great point on my YouTube video.
Six months later, eight months later, we don't know who did Vegas.
Was it six months later?
Of course we do. It was Islamists' attack.
Saudi Arabia did some war.
They know that within two hours it was the Russians in Syria,
right when the Russians were pulling out
and the rebels had been caught doing it before.
Why would the Russians give themselves a black eye?
This is about keeping that war going, getting Assad out.
Libya attacks Syria. Obama attacks Syria. It's wrong. It's bull.
We need to get out of there now. This needs to frickin' stop.
I personally am sick of it.
That's my family right there.
And it's about them.
And it's about my family right there.
Not dying in a nuclear winter.
We just think this stuff can never happen.
So the left is so brazen, they overthrew Iraq, they overthrew Libya,
they overthrew our allies like Egypt,
and they just want war and power and control, and it's sick.
And Trump's instincts are right to not do this
and announce we were pulling out two weeks ago.
So Trump announces we're pulling out.
And this whole new crisis starts claiming he's soft on Russia.
The same crap with that damn Mueller.
So enjoy yourselves, everybody. Enjoy nuclear war.
That's what happens. Pray for peace and pray for Trump
to make the right decision.
I'm Alex Jones with them, FullWars.com.
I'm with Troyers Live, right now covering it all on the radio
in FullWars.com for what's my show.
And I'll tell you, it's amazing.
You realize the reason why they want to demonize Russia so much
and pit America against Russia is because Russia's not globalist.
I'm not saying Russia's perfect.
Russia has its own problems, but they're not globalist.
So that means the Russian government is going to, in general,
just tell the truth or at least not go along with the globalist bull crap.
So you've got the Russian ambassador to the United Nations right now,
Vasily Nebensiya, addressing the UN Security Council to refute claims
that Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad gassed his own people
and that the United States is imposing undue hostilities on Russia
for defending its sovereignty.
Now, we've already got plenty of proof of this.
In fact, we already told you this was coming.
Other news outlets already told you this was coming.
Nikki Haley told you this was coming last June.
Don't take my word for it.
I got the tweet right here.
Nikki Haley, any further attacks done to the people of Syria
will be blamed on Assad.
Again, no evidence, just jumping to conclusions,
just telling you their false flag is coming.
But also Russia and Iran who support him killing his own people
and then they're going to turn it into a Russian-Iran issue.
So Nikki Haley shows you their cards and then the people still fall for it.
So listen to what Vasily Nebensiya said at the UN Security Council.
I'm reading from the transcript here.
We're combing through this video to get all of it.
Very long transcript, but very important things said.
Let me just read directly here.
Also, information is surfacing that the Altaf Camp American instructors
have trained a number of groups of fighters to stage provocations
with chemical weapons used to create a pretext for a strike.
It was clear to us that attempts to shelter terrorists and at the same time
punish the regime so hated by some Western capitalists
would sooner or later be undertaken.
Yeah, they've been trying this for years.
Speaking heads on television screens sought to repeal last year's strike against Syria.
This morning there were strikes against the T-4 airfield in Hamz province.
We are deeply troubled by such actions.
Provocations in Douma echo last year's incident in Khan Shikun.
The unifying aspect is the fact that there is a planned nature of these attacks.
An analysis of the USS operations prior to and after the incident in Khan Shikun.
Hope I'm saying that right.
In April 2017 shows that Washington ahead of time prepared for its operation.
The USS Porter Naval Destroyer from April 4th to 7th last year.
That is when the toxic substances were used in Khan Shikun
before the strike against the Shiret airbase.
We were already present in the Mediterranean waters where they were engaged in planned operations.
They did not enter the ports where an exchange of munitions could have happened
in order to increase the number of cruise missiles.
That is a brief extract from the overall transmission.
Let me just go to another segment of this.
The Russian Federation demanded for this meeting to be held on the agenda items.
Threats to intentional peace and security.
This is Russia demanding a meeting with the US because they knew that this was about to come.
They wanted to warn Trump and not have it happen.
Insofar as we are deeply alarmed at the fact that in a number of capitals above all Washington
and those blindly following it, London and Paris, a deliberate policy was undertaken
to stoke international tensions.
The leadership of the United States, the United Kingdom and France
without any justification, without any considering the consequences
have engaged in a confrontational policy against Russia and Syria
and they are prompting others to follow suit.
A broad arsenal of methods is being leveraged to slander and insult
hawkish rhetoric, blackmail, sanctions and threats to use force against a sovereign state.
Russia is being unpardonably threatened.
The tone with which this is being done has gone beyond the threshold of what is acceptable
even during the Cold War.
Such boorishness against my country is something your predecessors did not take the liberty to undertake.
What is next?
We remind a rhetorical question which our President put forward in 2015
from the UN General Assembly to our Western partners
above all the United States concerning the reckless of their geopolitical experiments in the Middle East,
the recklessness.
Do you understand now what you have done and the response at that time hung in the air?
Well, do you now?
Do you see what the deep state does now?
Do you see how the intelligence agencies lie and manipulate to demonize Trump,
demonize Russia and start wars?
That's what we're doing.
Russia is warning us.
But now they'll say I'm a Russian agent because I'm covering Russian propaganda
even though it's just the truth.
That means we've got a 25% markup and we've got it paired with the real red pill
that takes about seven days to kick in.
Brain force takes about 30 minutes.
But the two go together, it's the mind and body challenge.
They're both 50% off individually or together they're 50% off and free shipping with the combo
at infohorselife.com.
But it's got to end in a couple days because both of these best sellers are about to sell out.
infohorselife.com to get your Brain Force Plus and real red pill today.
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy.
We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy
for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it.
And we created a stronger formula than some of the best selling formulas out there.
It's very simple.
We went out and looked, what is the top?
What is the best?
We'll just put even more product in.
We'll make it better.
We'll put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60, we put $10 in it and sell it for $30.
It's $19.95 right now.
So you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95.
Believe me, we're selling it for $35 on average.
We need that $15, $20.
We make the fund this operation in the face of the global thrust of it.
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks.
I want to sell it all out before the big supply comes in and I want people that haven't tried
BrainForce to try it and find out why.
It's got 6,000 plus five-star reviews.
It's amazing.
MFullWarsStore.com, MFullWarsLive.com or AAA-2533139.
MFullWarsLive is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, M4sLife.com.
Super Blue Fluoride Free Toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula
that's loaded with good halogen iodide instead of the bad halogen fluoride.
Super Blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times
to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in Super Blue chosen by our dental experts include
xylitol, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver, and more.
Learn more about M4sLife Super Blue Toothpaste at M4sLife.com
and support the M4 war while you support healthy gums and teeth.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Are you sick of bias liberal media controlling the narrative?
Are you sick of Hollywood telling you how to think?
Are you sick of George Soros spending hundreds of millions of dollars
to influence US elections, local elections?
Does this frustrate you?
Do you wonder what can you do to fight back against this?
Well, the easiest thing you can do is go to infowarstore.com
and support us because we vow to fight against all those evils forever.
We'll never stop.
And so that's what we do at infowarstore.com.
That's why Alex Jones invaded the swamp this week.
That's why we're doing a live 34-hour emergency broadcast tomorrow
to try to stop World War III.
That's why we confront the nasty radical left on the streets
because we're here.
We're here for the fight.
We're here to fight for our future.
That includes you.
So at infowarstore.com, we've got specials running.
Your last chance for pure, affordable, high-quality iodine
are famous supplement, Survival Shield X2,
one of the most powerful and highly rated supplements we have at infowarstore.com.
The formula is so hard to come by now that we can't even replicate it.
And so, get your Survival Shield X2 now while the formula is still available.
And we're not jacking up the price for a supplement that just became more rare.
In fact, we're cutting it now.
It's 25% off.
And don't forget about auto-ship, which, when you shine up for auto-ship,
you get an additional 10% off.
And it's guaranteed to never run out of stock
because we put product aside for the auto-ship subscribers
so that when we run out of some of these products
and we have a run that sells out before we get the next run in,
yours will always be held back.
So whether it's the super blue toothpaste
or the M-Rex Essentials shampoo
or the Survival Shield X2
or Brain Force Plus or Bod Ease or any of the great supplements at infowarstore.com,
you sign up for auto-ship, you're guaranteed to get it,
you're guaranteed to get it on time,
and you get the additional 10% off.
That's what we do at infowarstore.com.
So check out Survival Shield X2 if you haven't tried it yet.
What are you waiting for?
And check out some of the other specials as well,
like $50 off Alexa Pure Breeze, 50% off Cell Force,
all kinds of good stuff out there for you at infowarstore.com at a discount price.
And again, that's how you thumb your nose
in the deep state controlled media outlets like CNN and MSNBC.
And Facebook.
Zuckerberg has been getting questioned again on the Hill today.
I just chose not to cover it live because we covered it live yesterday
and it's just like, what a waste of time.
What political theater?
It's the kindergarten bubblegum trials of Mark Zuckerberg.
Nothing is going to come from this.
It's all a distraction.
But considering the fact that they've decided to censor conservatives,
one most popular channel like Diamond and Silk,
who will be joining me in the next hour,
have been one of the victims of this censorship campaign on Facebook.
So we're going to play some of these clips from yesterday's testimony of Zuckerberg
before we get Diamond and Silk on.
Let's go clip eight, guys.
This is Ted Cruz, who probably was the hardest on Mark Zuckerberg yesterday.
Even Senator Blumenthal gave him a pretty hard time.
But here's Ted Cruz putting Zuckerberg in a box.
Mr. Zuckerberg, does Facebook consider itself a neutral public forum?
Senator, we consider ourselves to be a platform for all ideas.
Wrong.
Let me ask the question again.
Does Facebook consider itself to be a neutral public forum?
And representatives of your company have given conflicting answers on this.
Are you a first amendment speaker expressing your views?
Are you a neutral public forum allowing everyone to speak?
Senator, here's how we think about this.
I don't believe that...
Can't answer the question.
There are certain content that clearly we do not allow.
Like Diamond and Silk.
Hate speech, terrorist content, nudity, anything that makes people feel unsafe in the community.
No, like Diamond and Silk.
From that perspective, that's why we generally try to refer to what we do as a platform for all ideas.
Let me try just because the time is constrained.
It's just a simple question.
Zuckerberg was trained for Section 230.
He was trained on how to stall.
So when they ask you the leading key question like that, just stall.
Do you consider yourself a neutral public forum? Are you engaged in political speech?
Which is your right under the First Amendment?
Well, Senator, our goal is certainly not to engage in political speech.
I'm not that familiar with the specific legal language of the law that you speak to.
Yeah, right.
So I would need to follow up with you on that.
I'm just trying to lay out how broadly I think about this.
Mr. Zuckerberg, I will say there are a great many Americans who I think are deeply concerned
that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged.
There's the list of all Facebook's clients in Congress.
Very long list.
There have been numerous and Democrats with Facebook in May of 2016.
Gizmodo reported that Facebook had purposely and routinely suppressed conservative stories from trending news,
including stories about CPAC, including stories about Mitt Romney,
including stories about the lowest learner IRS scandal, including stories about Glenn Beck.
In addition to that, Facebook has initially shut down the Chick-fil-A Appreciation Day page,
has blocked a post of a Fox News reporter, has blocked over two dozen Catholic pages,
and most recently blocked Trump Supporters Diamond and Silks page with 1.2 million Facebook followers
after determining their content and brand were, quote, unsafe to the community.
To a great many Americans, that appears to be a pervasive pattern of political bias.
Do you agree with that assessment?
Senator, let me say a few things about this.
First, I understand where that concern is coming from,
because Facebook and the tech industry are located in Silicon Valley,
which is an extremely left-leaning place.
And this is actually a concern that I have and that I try to root out in the company
is making sure that we don't have any bias in the work that we do.
And I think it is a fair concern.
And that's why he's not under oath, because of comments like that right there.
Are you aware of any ad or page that has been taken down from Planned Parenthood?
Senator, I'm not.
Senator, we support abortion.
Sorry?
How about moveon.org?
I'm not specifically aware of those.
How about any Democratic candidate for office?
I'm not specifically aware.
I mean, I'm not sure.
In your testimony, you say that you have 15 to 20,000 people working on security and content review.
Do you know the political orientation of those 15 to 20,000 people engaged in content review?
No, Senator.
We do not generally ask people about their political orientation when they're joining the company.
So as CEO, have you ever made hiring or firing decisions based on political positions
or what candidates they supported?
No.
They're rubbish.
Why was Palmer lucky fired?
That is a specific personnel matter.
That seems like it would be inappropriate.
You just made a specific representation that you didn't make decisions based on political views.
Well, I can commit that it was not because of a political view.
Oh, crap.
Do you know of those 15 to 20,000 people engaged in content review?
How many, if any, have ever supported financially a Republican candidate for office?
Senator, I do not know that.
Your testimony says it is not enough that we just connect people.
We have to make sure those connections are positive.
It says we have to make sure people aren't using their voice to hurt people or spread misinformation.
We have a responsibility not just to build tools to make sure those tools are used for good.
Mr. Zuckerberg, do you feel that your responsibility to assess users whether they are good and positive connections
or ones that those 15 to 20,000 people deem unacceptable or deplorable?
Senator, are you asking about me personally?
Facebook.
Senator, I think that there are a number of things that we would all agree are clearly bad.
Foreign interference in our elections, terrorism, self-harm.
I'm talking about censorship.
Well, I think that you would probably agree that we should remove terrorist propaganda from the service.
So that, I agree, I think is clearly bad activity that we want to get down,
and we're generally proud of how well we do with that.
Now, what I can say, and I do want to get this in before the end here,
is that I am very committed to making sure that Facebook is a platform for all ideas.
That is a very important founding principle of what we do.
We're proud of the discourse and the different ideas that people can share on the service,
and that is something that as long as I'm running the company, I'm going to be committed to making sure it's the case.
Yeah, and I'm the Easter Bunny as well, too.
I got little golden eggs.
I'm going to be handing out after the show if you come down to Austin.
And Mark Zuckerberg wants all ideas shared equally on Facebook.
But you know, it's funny because here's the trap he's in.
As soon as you decide to become an arbiter of who's good and who's bad,
you're no longer a neutral public forum, and you have an entirely different set of regulations to deal with.
That's why you won't commit to that.
That's why they won't admit that they're politically censoring people.
That's why they kind of, on a balanced beam of, yes, we're an arbiter.
Oh, no, we're not an arbiter. Everybody's equal.
And that's why the whole thing was not under oath.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot
and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
Blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
It's been sold out for months, and now it's back.
It's Myco ZX Plus. Lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability. But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off.
Because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, Myco ZX.
Now, it's the other side of the equation.
Everybody thinks about probiotics, and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls.
And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of psoriasis.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX Plus. Now from the InfoWars store.
Well, Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook are under the gun for their data collection, data sharing, data selling, and censorship.
Or are they really, is it just political theater?
Well, they're definitely engaging in it.
And some Americans are raising an issue.
And Zuckerberg is on a balance beam right now.
Does he want to be the arbiter of information and content on Facebook?
Or does he want to say that they're neutral and they're not going to be the arbiter?
And Senator Ben Sasse from Nebraska asked Zuckerberg if he could define the type of hate speech he's trying to censor.
About a world where when you go from violent groups to hate speech in a hurry in one of your responses to one of the opening questions,
you may decide or Facebook may decide it needs to police a whole bunch of speech that I think America might be better off
not having policed by one company that has a really big and powerful platform.
Can you define hate speech?
Senator, I think that this is a really hard question.
And I think it's one of the reasons why we struggle with it.
There are certain definitions that we have around calling for violence or...
Let's just agree on that.
If somebody's calling for violence, that shouldn't be there.
I'm worried about the psychological categories around speech.
You used language of safety and protection earlier.
We see this happening on college campuses all across the country.
It's dangerous.
40% of Americans under age 35 tell pollsters they think the First Amendment is dangerous
because you might use your freedom to say something that hurts somebody else's feelings.
Guess what? There are some really passionately held views about the abortion issue on this panel today.
Can you imagine a world where you might decide that pro-lifers are prohibited from speaking about their abortion views on your content, on your platform?
I certainly would not want that to be the case.
But it might really be unsettling to people who've had an abortion to have an open debate about that, wouldn't it?
It might be, but I don't think that that would fit any of the definitions of what we have.
But I do generally agree with the point that you're making, which is as we're able to technologically shift towards especially having AI proactively...
Oh, we'll just have the AI.
The AI will know what hate speech is.
Bring that down.
So here there is dodging around that, but again, the philosophical question of how do you decide what's hate speech or not?
While you're saying you're going to be the arbiter of it, but you don't even know what it means.
That doesn't really make sense.
Now let's go to Blumenthal, who gave Zuckerberg a pretty hard time yesterday.
We've seen the apology tours before.
You have refused to acknowledge even an ethical obligation to have reported this violation of the FTC consent decree.
And we have letters.
We've had contacts with Facebook employees.
And I'm going to submit a letter for the record from Sandy Parakelis with your permission that indicates...
Alright, so bring it down. Okay, so there's Blumenthal calling out the apology tours we've gotten from Zuckerberg before.
And so how does Mark Zuckerberg respond?
Facebook is an idealistic and optimistic company.
For most of our existence, we focused on all the good that connecting people can do.
And as Facebook has grown, people everywhere have gotten a powerful new tool for staying connected to the people they love,
for making their voices heard, and for building communities and businesses.
But it's clear now that we didn't do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well.
And that goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy.
We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility.
Is that why you censored Diamond and Silk?
And that was a big mistake.
And it was my mistake.
Wait, was it the mistake to censor Diamond and Silk, or the mistake that Diamond and Silk was on the platform to begin with?
And I'm responsible for what happens here.
You're sorry, huh?
It's not enough to just connect people. We have to make sure that those connections are positive.
And it's not a positive connection.
Bring it down. It's not a positive connection when you might have young people on Facebook watching Diamond and Silk's channel
instead of CNN and not thinking the way you want them to think.
So is Zuckerberg apologizing to Diamond and Silk, or apologizing that Diamond and Silk were even on there to begin with?
They'll join us next.
Fuel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Infowars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use Carnivore by Infowars Life.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Back they became very popular because their content was original, creative, funny and informative.
But Facebook didn't like that and so they went ahead and censored Diamond and Silk.
Now there have been some developments about the censorship in the last 24 hours but I wanted to get their take on this and see exactly what's going on from their perspective.
I'm now joined by the popular and getting more popular, I would imagine, Diamond and Silk. What is it like for you guys to now become the center of attention,
not for your great content but because Facebook is trying to censor it?
Well, you know, it's coming to the light. Not only us but several other people are being censored and it's coming to the light about how Facebook do business,
about how Mark Zuckerberg has not paid any attention to what's going on on his platform and now look, we get to see it.
So it's coming to the light.
Well, it's amazing that you go through this and I would imagine that for you ladies, you're actually more popular now.
I would imagine that the censorship on Facebook has actually given you guys more attention.
Your audience is probably actually growing, more people asking for interviews.
So what has that been like? What is the response? Has the censorship hurt your brand, hurt your content or actually helped it?
Well, with all of this here attention, we are getting a lot of interviews.
Well, I just want to just make this here clear.
The fact that they deem our content and our brand unsafe to the community, that tarnished our brand.
That right there, it just put a stigma on us because the brand is Diamond and Silk.
That's right. Two black women. You could say two black chicks that's down with politics that loves our country, very patriotic, love our president and his agenda.
So in his agenda, so that was tarnished and branded.
Also, the censorship taken and making sure that they put algorithms in place on our page to thumb down our videos or keep it where our fans and followers won't be able to view our content
or get notification. You see, that's the censorship part of it.
Discrimination, a violation of our civil rights. I think this is wrong. This is terrible and it has to be correct.
And not only that, just to block us monetarily, just to say that we couldn't even show the ads throughout our Facebook live shows
and just to just blatantly restrict and block that for no reason at all until we got on the other day that we were unsafe to the community.
It's really a disgrace. It's a deformation of our character because with Diamond and Silk, we're here to educate people and to let them know what's going on in our country.
We hadn't sold any drugs. We don't sell drugs. We're not drug dealers. We're not killers. We're not out there in the streets trying to repab it on anybody or break it and enter anyone home or what have you.
We're just two human beings, black ladies who love our president, who love our democracy, who love this country.
And we want to see it move forward.
Well, I want to get into the current status of your channel right now on Facebook and everything you're dealing with. You already touched on it briefly there.
But I want to go back to something you just talked about how your brand is tarnished because of these attacks against you.
You see, that's actually key because this is what they do. It's a demonization, dehumanization campaign where they say, OK, look, here are a couple ladies who are getting more popular.
They're changing people's minds and, wow, they might be the new media. They might be a threat to us. So we have to dehumanize them, lie about them and try to drag them through the mud so that they cannot get to the point that they're destined to be at.
That's what it is. It's a dehumanization campaign against you so that people will be like you. They're like, oh, no, I don't want to touch them. They're bad people.
When it has nothing to do with what you're actually content is, whether it's bad or good, it's your politics.
That's right.
You are absolutely right. I said it the other day. I said, you know, they tell us, especially us, people of color, minorities, pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
So when you start pulling yourself up by your bootstrap and then somebody take those straps and then hang you out to drive, then what are you supposed to do?
Right.
You see what I'm saying? So I think that this has got to be looked at. This is totally unfair to demonize us. You said the perfect word to demonize us and make us look like that.
We are monsters and bad persons. That is unfair. That is unfortunate. And listen, Mark Zuckerberg is going to have to answer for that because he owns Facebook.
That's right.
That's this platform. He needs to know what's going on, but he's going to have to answer to that.
And another thing that I do realize, that's part of the Democrat playbook. This is the tactics that they use. They don't want you to get no bigger than what they want you to get because if you do, then they can't control you.
Right.
We do understand that. That's why Diamond and Silk, we have our own minds. We can think for ourselves. We see straight through the BS that's going on in the world, in Washington, DC, through the deep steaks, snakes.
We see everything that's going on. And that's one of the number one reasons why we voted for Donald J. Trump for him to be president of the United States because we knew through him he will drain the swamp and he's doing just that.
We appreciate that. All Americans appreciate that.
That's right.
What is your current status for your Facebook page? Have they reached out to you? Have you been in communication with Facebook? Yesterday, Zuckerberg ignored the topic of Diamond and Silk. Today, he actually addressed it.
He said it was an enforcement error if you can believe that. What is your current status with Facebook?
Well, you know, the algorithms are still on our page. You have people that's on it. Our fans is telling us, listen, you're still not coming up in my newsfeed or I still can't like your page. We're hearing some of that.
What we want him to do is go back to before the election, before our president won the election.
That's right.
Okay. These algorithms that they have on that page, take all of that stuff off of our page.
Dismantling.
So that whenever we post any content, our fans and followers can receive that content.
That's right.
Or we come up in their newsfeed or they receive a notification that we posted something just like a liberal, like if they had their own page with only 100,000.
That's right.
Another thing is whenever we post a video, we want our fans and our followers to see that video.
That's right.
Okay. Because it's not fair that if you go on a liberal page with only 100,000 fans and followers, they get millions of views if they post a video, but then that don't happen to us anymore.
And then we want him to go on all of these conservative page, move these algorithms away from their pages so that their fans and followers can see their information and their content too.
That's right.
Well, it sounds to me like you guys don't trust Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg to give you a fair platform there and to reach the amount of people that actually want to reach you or would be interested in your content.
So what do you think needs to happen moving forward?
I mean, I don't think Facebook is ever going to give you guys a fair shot.
I think they'll continue to have algorithms and AI try to censor you and bring you down.
I mean, what needs to happen with Facebook?
Does Facebook need Zuckerberg to be pulled out?
Do they need to be regulated by the government?
Is it time for people to just say, hey, Facebook is a biased platform?
We need to create our own.
Okay.
As conservatives, we should run.
That's right.
When you write, then you fight.
You challenge it.
You come to the table.
That's right.
I'm not talking about fighting the streets.
I'm not talking about burn down communities.
Come to the table and let's get this right.
And we'll give Mark Zuckerberg the opportunity to get it right.
That's right.
But he got to make sure that it's fair and square.
He has, if you want to claim that Facebook is a private organization, we can't tell him
what to do, but you open to the public.
That's right.
And when you open to the public, you can't discriminate.
You can't be one sided.
You have to be fair and balanced all the way across the board.
That's right.
So we're going to give him the opportunity to do that.
I don't want to run for Facebook because I built my following right there.
That's right.
1.4 million followers right there on Facebook, one person at a time.
So I'm going to stay right there and I'm asking everybody to go like and follow our page.
Facebook is going to get this right.
That's right.
And if they don't, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
I'm about to go there, but go ahead.
You go ahead.
But if he do not get it right, he will be the face without the book or the book without
the pages, and we're going to continue to call him out.
That's right.
That's right.
So what he need to do is go back and fix all of this.
That's right.
What he can do, since Facebook uses the artificial intelligence to try to silence people like
Diamond and Silk and keep their channel from reaching its full potential, we have to use
our human intelligence and share it, share Diamond and Silk videos, share their Facebook
page.
Tell your friends to subscribe because the artificial intelligence is trying to silence
them.
The only chance that we have is to use our human intelligence to actually get them to
their full potential.
So we've got one more segment with Diamond and Silk on the other side again.
They get censored from Facebook.
They're deemed unsafe for the community.
Why are they unsafe for the community?
Because Facebook is trying to social engineer a community to be brainwashed into liberal
policies.
And if you have Diamond and Silk on Facebook, that's unsafe to the community that they're
trying to socially engineer.
We'll be right back with Diamond and Silk.
Don't go anywhere.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church, to get
them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life NASA pack technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon.
10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Go to faketv.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com.
Or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
No asses that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of Empower's life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and res-secured, you're finding the tip of
the spear in the Empower.
That's Empower'sLives.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA, it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the Empower.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield and Empower'sLives.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
Owen Schreuer sitting in for Alex today.
He returns tomorrow as we launch our 34 hour live emergency broadcast.
And this is, in one aspect, an emergency broadcast dealing with the attack on free speech, which
Diamond and Silk are dealing with firsthand right now.
They were deemed unsafe to the community on Facebook.
Just ridiculous.
I mean, they're unsafe to the community.
Kathie Lee Griffin can depict herself decapitating Trump.
That's cool.
Snoop Dogg can depict himself shooting Trump in the head.
No problem there.
They can threaten Trump with the security agencies and the intelligence agencies.
That's all good.
That's not unsafe to the community, spreading false narratives about chemical attacks in
Syria to lead us to World War III.
That's not unsafe to the community.
But Diamond and Silk just having an opinion and existing is unsafe to the Facebook community.
And then Zuckerberg today says it was an enforcement error.
So guys, I'm just curious.
What is Facebook officially said to you about why you're considered unsafe to the community?
What reasons or quotes or videos or anything did they give to you to say, hey, look, you're
unsafe to the community.
We have to censor you.
Did they give you anything?
They have not communicated with us.
They have been spoken to us by phone about the reasoning that our content and our brand
is unsafe.
That's right.
Period.
It's putting out this statement that they reached out to us directly.
That's a lie.
They have not.
Even before doing this to our page, even before they did it in September 7, 2017, no warning,
no nothing.
They just, we woke up one morning and our page was partially down.
We didn't know what was going on.
We chatted with somebody about eight hours later, our page came back up.
And then after that, everything to reach, everything just went haywire.
Right.
Wait.
So you're telling me that not only has Facebook censored you, but they've also lied about
it?
That's right.
Right.
They keep saying that they've been in communication with Diamond and Silk.
They have not been in communication with Diamond and Silk directly with Diamond and Silk.
We haven't received an email or a phone call.
We haven't talked to these people on the phone.
We had to talk to Mark Zuckerberg.
None of that.
So that, that's not true.
Right.
To me, that tells me, to me, that tells me they don't care about you.
Here you are, millions of audience members on Facebook, huge impact, get wrongly censored
according to himself.
He admits it.
He said today it was an enforcement error.
So he admits it today.
He says we wrongly censored them.
This is not right.
They shouldn't have been deemed unsafe to community, yet they lied about reaching out
to you.
They haven't done anything to return you to your normal status.
To me, that tells me that they don't care about you.
That's right.
They complain from people that can't even like our page, can't follow our page, can't
comment on our page, can't find our page or did not even see their page, our page in
their news feed.
Right.
But you got other people on the left now that's got millions of followers like that, but they
people can reach their pages.
That's right.
So yes, take, remove these algorithms or all of this little bias, these little tactics
off of our page so that our page will be back to where it used to be, where people can
see and view our content.
That's right.
Do you believe Mark Zuckerberg, when he says the censorship against you was an enforcement
error?
No, I do not.
No, no, no, no, no, keep in mind, we've been back and forth with Facebook for six months,
29 days, five hours, 40 minutes and 43 seconds.
Right.
Back and forth.
We have emails.
We have chats.
Well, we've been back and forth about these different issues that's been going on on our
page.
That's right.
We've been pushed to the side, told this, told that, well, we got to deal with the tech
support team.
We don't know where there's been no restrictions on your page.
We don't see anything wrong with your page.
Check your settings.
It's been like that back and forth for almost for almost seven months, right?
Have you heard or had any outreach from the ACLU or the NAACP?
We're Trump supporters.
That's right.
The ACLU, they would prefer to go and make sure the KKK have a voice instead of people
like us.
So nothing from the civil rights attorneys at the ACLU?
No, absolutely nothing.
Absolutely nothing.
See, this is the thing that we're talking about.
Discrimination is wrong.
I don't care where it's coming from.
That's right.
And what I find appalling is this is how the left do things.
They take in everything.
If you are conservative, you're racist.
If you are that, you're discriminated.
If you're Republican, you're discriminating.
This is what they do.
But now let's fit this here.
Now you have two black conservative women who are Republicans who support the president.
That's right.
But you have a white liberal who owns this platform discriminating against two people
of color.
And I want them to see the hypocrisy here about don't point the finger at conservatives
and Republicans.
Let's look at what's happening here.
That's right.
I don't care what nobody say, we were discriminated against when you deem our brand, which is
two women, when you deem us unsafe to the community.
You tarnished and you branded us and you painted us into something because you thought we was
going to go somewhere and sit down.
And Mark Zuckerberg, he's obtained the American dream.
Diamond and silk, we are obtaining the American dream.
But for someone to come and pour the rug from underneath you, tell you to bring yourself
up.
Let this here happen, and then when you start making it happen, they try to kick you back
down and put their foot on your neck.
That's basically what happened.
And not just Facebook, even down to YouTube, demonetizing our videos, saying that it's
not suitable for all advertising and then labeling it as hate speech.
To me, you have an open and shut case of discrimination here.
Facebook has not offered you even a whim of evidence of why they deemed you unsafe to
the community.
They proved that they don't care about you by saying it's an enforcement error, but
yet not reaching out to you and then lying about it.
And you're telling me still with all of this going on, the NAACP has no interest in protecting
your guys' rights.
Absolutely not.
Absolutely not.
But that's okay because we can fight for ourselves.
That's right.
When I'm right, I will fight.
I will challenge it.
You're going to have to explain some things to me.
So Mark Zuckerberg, we're going to have to sit down, he's going to have to explain some
things.
Oh, yes.
He's going to have to explain why do he deem us two black women?
That's right.
Who support our president and love him?
Why do he deem us unsafe to the community?
He's going to have to come to our table.
That's right.
Now, are you guys planning any litigation or legal action against this?
Are you just going to continue to fight it in the media?
I can't, I don't know what's going, I can't focus on what I'm going to do moving forward
because I'm so stuck on us being deemed unsafe.
That is, that's time, that's taking somebody and you just demean them.
Yeah, you, you're going to have to get that right.
That's right.
Mark Zuckerberg is going to have to get it right.
And I hope after these hearings, he go back and he make everything, make this right.
He's going to have to.
Because he's going to have to do it.
He's going to have to do it.
It's around the world and it's even right here now.
In our community.
In our community.
Right.
Back here at our home.
Well, that's it.
I mean, Mark Zuckerberg, he's allowed to get the American dream, make billions of dollars,
sell all your personal information.
But Diamond and Silk, no, they are not allowed to have the American dream.
We need to pull the route, rug out from under them and censor them.
They're a threat to the community and I'm going to, I'm a good white liberal and I'm
going to dehumanize them and say they're unsafe to the community and you get nothing
from the ACLU, nothing from the NAACP, nothing from Facebook.
Ladies, thank you for joining me today.
Final 30 seconds parting words for our audience.
Listen, you are, if you are being censored and if you know you right, then you're going
to have to fight.
And when we stand here and when we're here and we're even fighting for our cause, we're
fighting for you too.
If you are a conservative, they move, their algorithms do need to be removed from your
pages and that's what we're also fighting for.
So we're in this together.
And don't forget to go to diamondandsilk.com and visit our Chit Chat tour leak, go and
see where we're going to be at, check us out.
We want to see your face in the place.
We love you guys.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Face it.
Today's electric power grid is more vulnerable than ever.
From natural disasters to EMP attacks and hacking, the grid could be crippled for days
or even decades in the most dire scenarios.
Visit quantumharvest.net to see our built-to-last EMP-protected solar power systems.
While millions suffer, you'll have vital power for water pumps, refrigeration, and sanitation.
Now that's peace of mind, EMP-protected solar power systems for every need and budget.
See our full range at quantumharvest.net.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info
War so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities.
And it's made in the U.S.
Day.
Get your alpha power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it InfoWarsLife.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the pregluenone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsLife.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
So thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
InfoWarsLife Brainforce Plus is our number one selling product by leaps and bounds and
for a good reason.
Going back about five years ago, we did research on what top selling new tropics were, what
were most popular, what were best, what people liked, and we made it even stronger.
Then we cut the price because leading competitors have five to seven times markup.
We only have 150 percent, and then it helps funder operation.
Well now it's 50 percent off.
That means we've got a 25 percent markup, and we've got it paired with the real red
pill that takes about seven days to kick in.
Brainforce takes about 30 minutes, but the two go together.
It's the mind and body challenge.
They're both 50 percent off individually or together they're 50 percent off and free
shipping with the combo at InfoWarsLife.com.
But it's got to end in a couple days because both of these best sellers are about to sell
out InfoWarsLife.com to get your Brainforce Plus and real red pill today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We just had Diamond and Silk with us, and of course they are the recent victims along
with everyone else that's a conservative on Facebook to be censored, to be algorithmed
out of their full potential by Facebook.
And I've got the crew about to bring in a tweet from Brad Parscale here in a second.
But yesterday you had, was it Blumenthal?
I think it might have been Blumenthal.
I don't remember who it was.
One of the senators that was questioning Zuckerberg said, would you be okay with an opt-in program
to the data mining marketing marketplace of Facebook?
Would you rather do it an opt-in instead of an opt-out?
So right now, basically, unless you go in like 27 layers deep into your Facebook settings
to reject all of the information they're sharing about you, reject all the data they're gathering
about you, unless you go into that, you know, 27 layers of settings, their data mining you,
they're getting all your information, they're selling everything they can.
So one senator says, would you be open to an opt-in with all the data instead of an
opt-out of which Zuckerberg balked and pretty much scoffed and moved on to the next issue?
Then you have Brad Parscale, who tweets out, if Facebook really cares about not looking
like a censor, they should post all blocked and banned post slash users in a special area
that is viewable by a select group of diverse Americans.
So this is actually brilliant.
This is another brilliant idea that has been proposed to Facebook that they won't engage
with because it's not about actually accomplishing fairness, it's about censoring conservatives.
So we know what the real agenda here is, but you can prove that by offering logical solutions
to the problems that Facebook are having right now and then you'll see they're not interested.
But think about it like this.
I actually love this idea from Brad Parscale.
If Facebook created a separate section on Facebook that was strictly what they decided
as hate speech, so take Diamond and Silk videos, videos from the Alex Jones channel, all the
videos that they view as hate speech or fake news or what have you, that they're censoring
and banning with their AI from their platform of Facebook and your news feeds and everything
and your updates, notifications, everything, everything they're banning and using AI to
algorithm out of that platform, they put onto a separate sub platform.
Imagine Facebook hate speech.
That's what essentially Brad Parscale is suggesting.
I'm kind of taking it a few layers further.
Think about this.
So Facebook can show you what they deem as hate speech, what they're censoring and then
put it on a separate platform and then do you know what would happen if that happened?
The hate speech column of Facebook would become the number one page in Facebook history dominating
the actual platform.
That's how that works.
That shows you how people don't want the censorship.
That shows you how people are racing to information that the establishment is trying to censor.
So imagine if Facebook took everything they deemed as hate speech, everything they're
censoring, everything they're algorithming out of their normal platform and they put
that on a Facebook hate speech platform, everyone would immediately go to the Facebook
hate speech platform.
How amazing is that?
You'd like if Facebook did the opt-in program instead of the opt-out program that you don't
even know about, nobody would share their data with Facebook.
If you had to opt-in to sharing all of your data and information with Facebook, nobody
would do it.
That's why they're never going to do it.
It's not about fairness.
It's not about equality.
It's not about an open platform.
It's not about sharing ideas.
It's not even about connecting people anymore.
It's about building and socially engineering a culture that is brainwashed by liberalism
and communism.
And, yes, the crew is pulling up, Zuckerberg refers to his users as dumb efforts.
Of course, they're dumb efforts.
Oh, man.
But you know what?
That's that.
And I've got a ton of other news to get to here.
So let me just grab a stack and just crank through it here real quick.
Okay, how about this?
You know, Eric Swalwell, I mean, this guy, do you want to talk about an unhinged maniac
on Twitter?
You're going to talk about Eric Swalwell.
This guy, first of all, what is with the weird pictures he's always using?
You know what?
I'm not even going to get into that.
I'm not even going to get into little Eric Swalwell.
But every day, he tweets the most radical, asinine stuff.
And you just have to say, Representative Swalwell, what the hell is wrong with you?
Are you mentally deranged, sir?
Do you have a problem?
Is your IQ that of a goldfish?
He tweets this out.
Mr. President, if you fire Mueller or Rosenstein, who both should have been fired, shouldn't
even have a job.
Thousands of us will see that as obstructing justice in broad daylight.
And despite what you've done to our rule of law, it will come roaring back.
Yeah, yeah.
Trump's abusing the rule of law while Mueller is running totally rogue and lawless.
In the streets, at the ballot box and at the Capitol, we will unite against tyranny, where
if Trump was a dictator or an authoritarian, Mueller and Rosenstein would have already
been fired, if not in jail, including you, Swalwell, little Swalwell.
But as if it's not disturbing enough that you have some creeper like Eric Swalwell in
Congress, then you go read the replies to his tweets and you realize how dumb some people
actually are.
You know what?
Don't even do it to people.
You know what?
Don't even do it.
Pull it down, guys.
I'm serious.
Take it off the screen.
Reading this stuff is honestly like it's soul crushing.
It destroys, it literally crushes your soul.
You're like, oh my gosh, people are that stupid?
Oh my gosh, people actually believe Eric Swalwell?
That's sad.
And so they do this thing where they bully Trump and they say, you're a Russian agent.
You're a Russian agent.
So then he goes into war with Russia and then they bully Trump and say, oh, maybe he'll
fire, fire, fire.
Mueller goes totally lawless, it raises lawyers' places, and they want Trump to fire Mueller
so bad.
That's it.
They want Trump to fire Mueller.
They're baiting Trump into firing Mueller so that if he fires him, then they say obstruction
of justice, then they have Chuck Schumer introduce the new bill that will protect Robert Mueller
in case he is fired.
Totally lawless, totally above the republic, totally out of any rule of democracy or anything,
just above the law.
And then they run the story.
Robert Mueller's nuclear option.
If Trump fires him, the special counsel should reveal everything he's discovered in the Russia
investigation.
He's discovered nothing, you jackass.
See how dumb they are?
That's what I'm saying.
It's like a gut punch that people are that stupid.
He should reveal everything he's discovered in the Russia investigation.
You don't think he would have already done that?
You're that dumb?
You think he's withholding information?
If they could, they would have had Trump removed last year.
They've got nothing.
And that's why they run this story on NBC News, Stormy Daniels cooperating with Feds
probing Trump's attorney.
What does Stormy Daniels have to do with Russia?
If they had anything on Trump Russia, they wouldn't be using Stormy Daniels.
Oh, but then you realize how this whole story is a misnomer, Stormy Daniels cooperating
with Feds probing Trump's attorney.
No, the Feds are cooperating with Stormy Daniels.
Stormy Daniels is the one running the show.
Stormy Daniels is the one they're using to get Trump now.
See, there is no Trump Russia, but there might be Trump's Stormy, so let's use that.
Even though it happened years before he was in office, it has nothing to do with anything,
but it's all about bringing Trump down.
That's what it's all about.
Let's go to Devin in Florida, Devin in Florida, you're on the air.
Great.
Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing.
Thank you.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, superman of vitality, secret
swell, vitamin, and infusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you.
Wow.
You're the type of listener that makes it all possible.
Which nutraceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible, like I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys, I love the info, worst through, and I just
want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence,
just buy it.
We'll love it.
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at InfoWarsLife.com.
This is a win-win InfoWarsLife.com.
Introducing Cell Force by InfoWarsLife.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much
like a cellular engine overhaul.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing
reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with Cell Force from InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
InfoWarsLife packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest
cutting edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat
and other proteins better, and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic
culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
All of these are the very cutting edge, top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes
at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at InfoWarsLife.com, you know you are also financing the attack
on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
They say liberalism is a mental disorder.
Well, I'll give you the proof right now.
Listen to your current state of consciousness and mind if you are a liberal.
You say Trump is Hitler, yet you want to turn all the guns into the government that
Trump-Hitler runs.
You say that police are racist killers, yet you want the police to be the only people
that have firearms.
Now you say that Trump is unhinged, unfit for office, cannot handle this mentally, and
you think he needs to launch a full-scale invasion of Syria and start World War III.
You also believe that Trump is colluding with Russia and a Russian agent while he's starting
World War III with Russia.
Now those four instances of double-speak are 100% real, double-think, 100% real.
You have millions of liberal Americans that actually have those conflicting ideas set
in stone in their head and they still believe it to be rational.
Now if you don't call that mental illness, I don't know what is.
If you don't call that 1984 double-think, it doesn't exist.
If you don't call that brainwashing, then you don't believe in brainwashing.
And so that's what you have going on right now.
We're in the final segment of the third hour of the Jones Show.
I'm going to stick around in the fourth hour and we're going to be hearing from Alex Jones
later on in the fourth hour.
Let me just crunch through some of these headlines.
House Speaker Paul Ryan announces his retirement, says he's not going to be running for reelection.
I'm never really a big fan of Paul Ryan.
I think he's a cuck, a cuck-servative, if you will.
I mean, give me the House, give me the Senate, we'll repeal Obamacare, can't do it.
He was a never-Trumper, then he is a Trumper, then he's not a Trumper, then he is a Trumper.
Get him out.
Bye-bye.
Now, will we replace him with something better?
That's another question.
But he's announcing he's done.
He has other ideas in mind, too, but he's not going to rerun for his House seat.
Devin Nunes threatens to impeach DOJ's Rob Rosenstein and FBI's Chris Wray.
Actually, you know what?
Let's actually do, I think we have it.
Yeah, let's actually go to that clip, guys.
Actually, Roll Clip 13.
This is Devin Nunes threatening to impeach Rod Rosenstein and Chris Wray.
What are the chances you're going to hold them in contempt of Congress?
Right now?
Let me just tell you that we're not going to just hold in contempt.
We will have a plan to hold in contempt and to impeach.
To impeach Chris Wray?
Absolutely.
Rod Rosenstein.
We're not messing around here.
They're going to give these two...
They're going to say you're just Trump's lackey here.
You're doing Trump's bidding.
That's what the Democrats, they've been demonizing you from the beginning.
I've been subject to some demonization myself, so I know how it goes, but they're going to
demonize you and say, oh, you're just going to run over the White House, help Trump out
every time he needs, he's in a jam.
Yeah.
I've said this before, whenever I see evidence of Russian collusion, I'll be the first person
standing out there on the steps of the Capitol that I've found.
And he did.
He found it.
It's Hillary Clinton.
Trump campaign.
I haven't counted it yet, but I've found a whole lot of other stuff that always puts
DOJ and FBI in a bad light, unfortunately.
Now think about this.
Now again, if you've been following Devin Nunes for the last three years, at first on the
scene with Trump, he was never a big Trump guy, even kind of fell into the whole Russian
Trump collusion thing, and that's the attitude he went into this investigation with.
Now he's done the investigation.
Now he has the intelligence.
Now he has the evidence.
He's seen it all.
He knows it all.
He knows it wasn't Trump.
It was actually Hillary and the Democrats.
He knows the abuses by the FISA court, by the DOJ, by the FBI under Obama, Obama colluding
in that process to try to rig an election for Hillary Clinton, colluding with the Russians
to fabricate opposition research that never happened.
And he knows all this.
He knows about the corruption.
And so he's sitting there like, look, you don't understand.
This is serious stuff.
These people need to go to jail.
And he knows all this, and he's sitting there, and every day you just wonder how much of
this is preconceived, how much of this is political theater, and they're just waiting
to drop the hammer that's been in their hand, raised up, ready to be dropped for months,
not years.
And they're just waiting for the right moment, waiting for the opportunity to strike in that
perfect moment.
Because what we're dealing with, with the deep state, with the globalist, with the corruption,
is so deep, so intense that it almost takes a perfect strike to bring it down, if it's
even possible.
So you just heard from Devin Nunes.
Meanwhile, Trump says, get ready, Russia, the muscles are coming.
So Trump's going to strike Syria.
So the US is going to strike Syria.
Trump admitted it over Twitter.
What kind of strike is this going to be?
Is this going to be real?
Is this going to be fake?
Is it going to be theater?
Is it going to be war?
Is Trump having a back channel communication with Putin, telling him that this is all theater?
Don't take it seriously?
Or is he hoping Putin understands that?
Or is this real?
And we're about to go into World War III.
Russia responds, says they'll shoot down any US missiles fired at Syria, so I guess that's
going to happen.
I mean, that's going to happen.
Trump said it's going to happen.
Russia said it's going to happen.
So is that going to happen?
And is it going to be real?
Is it going to be World War?
Or is it all political theater?
And Trump says that the relationship with Russia is worse than it ever has been.
Credit's Mueller with that.
And of course, because Mueller and the Democrats box Trump in, we're going to bring you down
saying you're colluding with Russia if you don't start World War III with Russia.
And now here we are, millimeters away from a great war, according to Russian television,
according to Russian diplomats, according to US media, according to US diplomats, it's
all happening.
It's all real.
And you've got a lawless, lawless Mueller, lawless FBI, unelected, no constitutional
bearings, rating Trump's longtime attorney's offices and homes.
Even the liberal attorney, Alan Dershowitz, says that it may not have been legal.
You know, that's who Trump should hire.
Trump should hire Dershowitz.
How would you like that?
Boy, that'd be a curveball, wouldn't it?
You've got Zuckerberg talking about AI coming to Facebook.
You've got AI being rolled out for law enforcement in China and India.
You have Elon Musk warning that AI could create an immortal dictator from which we can never
escape.
And it's nice that we're rolling out AI as a communist liberal snowflake.
So that's great.
So we're basically raising an AI, grooming an AI to be a communist liberal snowflake.
That'll be great.
That'll be just fine.
Dismantle whiteness mural installed at USC.
So you can't have a sign that says it's okay to be white, but you can have a sign that
says dismantle whiteness and misogyny on this campus, and you can have classes and courses
and mandatory meetings that say white people have to be taken down and dismantle whiteness.
So that's okay.
Racism against white people, good racism against black people, bad.
This is actually crazy.
DeBlasio aid busted with a gun in a car.
Now, this story kind of got hidden in all the news.
First of all, DeBlasio already had one of his staffers, the next John Podesta, if you
will, caught with hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and thousands of images of child porn.
Okay?
So you've got that.
You've got DeBlasio marching with terrorists in the Puerto Rican Day parade, et cetera.
Now you've got another DeBlasio aid busted with a gun in the car.
But listen to this.
It's in response to a shooting scene, and then they have a gun in a car with the serial
numbers scratched off of it and an empty casing in the car and footage that shows the car
she's in with muzzle flashes.
And then she's with two guys that have knives and a history.
Apparently there's drugs on the scene.
Wow.
Another example of DeBlasio's horrible leadership somehow gets reelected.
More than a hundred dead geese plunge from sky in Idaho and bizarre incident.
What is up with that?
Just a hundred geese just fall from the sky dead.
Biblical aliens, street lamp radiation causing humanitarian crisis, research shows Wi-Fi
radiation of the 5G LED lamps that are in the streets are now causing a humanitarian
crisis leading to miscarriages, birth defects, et cetera, et cetera.
But let's put all of that in our cell phones and I'm sure it'll be just fine.
Folks, we have supplements at infowarstore.com to fight back against the toxic environment
that's been created for us.
Air filters like the Alexa Pure Breeze air filter that has $50 off right now at infowarstore.com
plus free shipping on orders over $50.
You've got the emergency food supplies.
You've got water filters.
You've got survival shield X2, which is the best way to fight against the fluoride in
the water.
So we're aware of the toxic environment and we look for solutions to combat the toxic
environment and we sell them at infowarstore.com and then we use that profit to build our
network, have more live broadcasts, do more live reports from the streets, do more events
like we had Alex Jones at the DC National Press Club, and then do a 34-hour broadcast
starting tomorrow.
But it's all possible with your support at infowarstore.com, Brainforce Plus, 4.6 Star
Review, one of our most popular products, and it's on sale 50% off right now at infowarstore.com.
So this is how we support ourselves, this is how you can thumb your nose at the globalist
and stick your finger in the eye of CNN.
Support us at infowarstore.com.
We'll be right back with the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show, don't go anywhere.
The reason InfoWars Live has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want
products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore
truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, like I have a noticeable difference, I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale, I had a few bottles at my house and I've
been taking it again, hitting the gym once again, very exciting, feeling great, looking
good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the superfemale is amazing, I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2, if there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would
suggest it's nascent iodine, Survival Shield X2, it's got a five star rating.
It's a win-win, infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarsstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for children
and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
Well, free speech is under attack, and that's why we are launching a 34-hour live broadcast
tomorrow in defense of free speech, in defense of America's sovereignty.
But you have Democrats in California right now pushing legislation to try to censor free
speech, here's John Bowne with that report.
At the moment, the system is piecemeal, some are run by city councils, others are scored
by private tech platforms which hold personal data, sounds vaguely familiar, doesn't it?
Like private credit scores, a person's social score can move up and down depending on their
behavior.
The exact methodology is a secret, but examples of infractions include bad driving, smoking
and non-smoking zones, buying too many video games, and posting fake news online.
Senator Pan's bill would require the plan to include, among other things, a plan to
mitigate the spread of false information through news stories, the utilization of fact-checkers
to verify news stories, providing outreach to social media users, and placing a warning
on a news story containing false information.
Who is California State Senator Richard Pan, as legendary investigative journalist John
Rappaport explained?
He has a track record of certainly representing pharmaceutical interests, and now he's gone
a step further, a big step in introducing this new bill in California Senate Bill 1424,
which is all about the internet, and what you have to do if you have any sort of internet-based
operation in California, which he defines as social media, but when you read through
the bill, you begin to see that he's talking about any sort of communication really over
the internet, whether it's a website or a blog, or it's even an email, which is completely
preposterous.
I see him, in a way, as the leader of test runs, because this is frequently how totalitarian
programs are enacted.
Okay, let's try this bill, and let's see what happens.
Let's see how much public protest there is.
Let's see how many senators want to vote for it, and the ones who don't.
What would they vote for?
All of the usual kinds of analysis that would accompany introducing a bill like this.
Even not particularly expecting it to pass the first time around.
Just to get a grip on the reaction to it, okay?
Now we have a report on what happened to Senator Pan's bill.
Let's really dig into this, and let's see how we can strengthen this position the second
time around when we introduce a new piece of legislation that is somewhat different
in wording, contains some of the same abuses, you know?
And let's see how far we can make that one fly.
This representative democracy is a total crapshoot when it comes to who is minding the store.
A store that is being looted and set on fire.
John Bound reporting for Infowars.com.
And this is why they are trying to censor free speech so much, folks.
Because think about it, you've got an FBI that ignores Nicholas Cruz, an FBI that ignores
Hillary Clinton, two threats to safety.
But Stormy Daniels and Trump send the entire FBI in.
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy.
We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy
for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it.
And we created a stronger formula than some of the best-selling formulas out there.
It's very simple.
We went out and looked at what is the top, what is the best, we'll just put even more
product in, we'll make it better.
Leading competitors put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60, we put $10 in it, and sell
it for $30.
It's $19.95 right now.
So you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95.
Believe me, we're selling it for $35 on average, we need that $15, $20 we make to fund this
operation in the face of the global, the rest of it.
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks.
I want to shell it all out before the big supply comes in, and I want people that haven't
tried BrainForce to try it and find out why.
It's got 6,000 plus five-star reviews.
It's amazing.
So here's the deal, you've got social media, censoring,
people because when you have an event or a false flag event like what happened in Syria,
they have to make sure the voices that are going to be there to push back against it
and to push back against the false narrative no longer exist.
And that's the key.
And when they censor people for political speech, which they're doing, that's to try
to engage in social engineering.
When they censor people like a German historian in Germany for saying, there is no history
of Islam in Germany, that's not the history of Germany, and then Facebook censors them.
And then you have Mark Zuckerberg, the creator of Facebook on the Hill saying, we don't censor,
no, no, no, just hasties, ooh, the total fake news.
The entire campaign of censorship is so that they can run false flags and get away with
it, lie about events and send us into war.
And so that's what's going on in Syria right now, where they admit, Nikki Haley says, next
time there's an attack in Syria, we're going to blame Assad.
And then they do that without any evidence.
And then they say, we're going to send missiles and we're going to hit Syria.
And Russia says, well, no, you're not, we're going to strike those down.
So then they're putting Trump into a corner.
Either he colludes with Russia and he's the bad guy, or he goes to World War Three with
Russia and he's the bad guy, but at least he's not colluding with Russia.
And that's where we're at.
And my guest is Andrey Afanasyev, journalist, TV host, the head of political department
at Russia's first independent pro-Christian conservative political TV channel, Sargrad.
You can see that at sargrad.tv.
Previously worked for RT and others.
And he joins me out to discuss all of this.
What is the take right now in Russia?
Do they feel like Trump is being totally bamboozled?
Do they feel like Trump is the bad guy?
Do they feel like Trump is trying to work some brinkmanship over here with the fake charges
of collusion?
Are people in Russia as worried about World War Three as they are in America?
Andrey Afanasyev, tell me what are Russians thinking?
Hello, Owen.
Thank you for having me on Infowars.
So first of all, definitely in general, the society is worried about the situation in
the Middle East, the situation in Russian and U.S. relations.
And mainstream media mainly go with this hysteria narrative, like anywhere else in the world,
like what's happening in many mainstream U.S. media.
But the thing is that a lot of people now understand here in Russia that in general,
the political situation in U.S. is very difficult in terms that there is no clear center of
decision-making in political establishment of the United States, and that President
Trump and his team, they do not actually control the situation as, for example, Vladimir Putin
controls the situation here in Russia, especially in foreign affairs and military and defense
issues.
A lot of people understand that now, because we see that frequently after Donald Trump
says something neutral or sane or rational about Russia, about Syria, about foreign relations,
about key strategic issues, after that, usually we see happening some kind of a deep state
provocation, I would call it that way, in U.S.
For example, at first, Trump calls, at first of all, we had elections in March 18.
And Donald Trump wasn't calling for a while.
And everyone understood that he was probably under pressure, and someone was trying to
make him not to call and congratulate Vladimir Putin on a fair victory on these fair and
transparent elections.
So that the conflict between our countries depended.
But he called with a delay, but still he called.
And a lot of people, a lot of experts in analytics here in Russia said that probably
it was a result of a certain fight inside American elites, inside White House, and inside
Trump's team.
After that, we see the Scrippall case and the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats out
of U.S. with no evidence, with no proof, with no court ruling, with just several PowerPoint
images made by British government and the Central American government.
That was enough for U.S. government to send out 60 people, 60 Russian diplomats and call
them special service officers.
Then Trump says that there is no use in staying in Syria now when ISIS is defeated and almost
lost all of its power.
And Trump said that the U.S. were planning to withdraw troops from Syria, from this region.
And after that, after that, we see the new escalation, the classical scenario of this
escalation, with so-called chemical attack carried out by Assad and his army against
the civilians.
I mean, this is the most pathetic and hilarious thing you can imagine.
It's 1945, Russian troops entered Berlin, and Stalin orders to gas people here in Moscow.
Just for fun.
Well, that's the logic, I don't know.
American President Roosevelt orders to gas the people in New York in 1945, when Americans
were approaching from the west to Berlin.
So that's the point, and it's absolutely rational.
It is supported by mainstream media, it is supported by production, high-quality production
of fake news, I hope your viewers and you all have seen the materials of this production
of fake news when they take some kids, make them pretend that they are poisoned, and after
that they just let them go, and they pay them like 100 bucks.
And for Syria, it's an enormous sum of money.
So this is how it happens, they just record it somewhere on a territory controlled by
so-called moderate opposition, friendly to US, and after that they send it via social
media or somehow to mainstream western media that start the real hysteria, saying that
Assad is an animal, gassing his own people, civilians, and he needs to be punished, and
then Trump is made to send battleships to Syrian seizure, and well, you know all the
rest.
So now we're in a situation where there are several levels of possible development of
the scenario.
If you don't mind, I will describe them from the easiest to the most difficult for both
of our countries and societies.
Well, I'll tell you what, why don't you just put a bookmark in that because we're going
to break here in 90 seconds to go to commercial.
So let's get into those on the other side, let's take a note on that.
But just so the audience understands, the white helmets and whoever else is running
these productions over there in Syria, they've been caught multiple times staging these
videos, undercover footage, different footage, unedited footage, so they've been caught
doing that.
And that's you making that up, that's you seeing that and reporting on that.
And that's why they, and that's just the other side of issues.
That's why they have to censor us.
That's why they try to demonize us.
That's why they tell, oh no, no, no, no, no, don't look at Info Wars because we will play
that footage.
We'll bring on a Russian voice to tell us how they're thinking.
So just real quick, before we get into the possible outcomes or scenarios on the other
side, I mean, do you think they're trying to not only censor free speech to keep Americans
from knowing the truth, but also try to bully Americans into saying Russia bad, Russia bad
so that, you know, we don't have a relationship with Russia?
Of course.
And here in Russia, we understand that sustainable amount of American people, of healthy American,
real American society, are not interested in war and are not interested in direct conflict
with our country.
And, well, I can tell you that we understand this and we understand that we have more in
common with you fellow Americans from Heartland than with many other peoples in the world.
And everything is done so that you thought that we are enemies and something terrible.
And see, that's amazing.
That's amazing that they can do that.
I don't want war with Russia.
Russia doesn't want war with the United States, yet we could end up in a scenario where we
have to do it anyway.
I mean, what the hell is that?
Okay, reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping
your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system
has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Fully Cooked, Ready to Eat Bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA Pack technology.
Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm
and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
I'm so excited.
The new product at inforwarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Boy, frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but
it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae, and I came
up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers, non-GMO, made
right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at inforwarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family
use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured, you're fighting the
Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities,
and it's made in the U.S.A. Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
There's really so much to cover.
You've got multiple false flags to try to make Russia the boogeyman.
They say Russia poisoned its own spy in England, that to me is a false flag.
They say that Assad gassed his own people, again another false flag, just to pit the
West and its allies against Russia and Syria, and then start World War III.
And it's just incredible that all of this is going on while you have an unhinged, lawless
investigation of Trump going on, supposedly for Russian collusion, while he's supposedly
starting World War III with Russia, and then they raid his attorney's offices and homes
for an allegation of a relationship with a porn star, and apparently now they're even
saying for information on the Access Hollywood tape.
So they're that desperate to find Russian collusion from Trump that they're literally
searching under every rock from here to Pluto, can't find anything.
Then they stage a chemical attack in Syria to goad Trump into World War III with Russia,
which seems to be working.
I mean, it's all insane.
And I sit here and I say, is Trump that dumb or is Trump that smart?
Is Trump that dumb that he would fall for the false flag chemical attack in Syria and
go to World War III with Russia?
Or is he that smart that he would pretend to fall for the false flag in Syria to prove
he doesn't have collusion with Russia while having established back channel communications
with Putin diplomatically saying, look, I have to do all this to to avoid X, Y and Z,
but don't fall for it.
I know that you're not the enemy.
And so my guest, Andre Afanasyev, is going to break all the potential scenarios here
in the future down from his perspective over in Russia.
So what are the potential scenarios we could see now, given the rhetoric coming from Trump
and everything coming out of the West in response to the chemical attack false flag in Syria?
So when there are several scenarios, and I will describe them from the best, the easiest
to the worst.
And first of all, I must understand that the stakes now are really high.
And every step made by U.S. government and Donald Trump recently have put these stakes
even higher.
So the easiest the easiest and the least possible, unfortunately, scenario is just Trump just
brings the fleet to the shore of to the to the shore of Syria.
And that's it.
He just the media and he will tweet probably that look how great I am.
The Russians pushed backwards just after they saw us, our destroyers, our aircraft carriers,
and that's it.
So there will be only aggressive rhetoric towards us.
The same would be done here.
And that's it.
And that's kind of already happening.
There's kind of already a standoff with the Navy and Russian ships in in the sea right
there outside of Syria.
So that's kind of already happening.
And it's like, OK, that's it.
That would be the best case scenario is that's it.
Yes.
I'm sorry to say that this scenario seems to be OK for everyone now.
So it's OK for us.
It's OK for real Americans like you and your audience.
So it's not that bad.
It's actually it's terrible.
But in current circumstances, it's not that bad.
Yeah, like as long as it doesn't start World War three, like OK.
Yes.
The next is that Trump will have to launch several missiles from these destroyers like
a year ago when he bombed the Shirat airbase after alleged and not proven chemical chemical
attack in Idlib that was staged by mentioned white helmets.
After this, the information was distributed through all the mainstream media.
And then Trump launched several dozens, I think 64 Tomahawks and destroyed a military
aircraft base that had nothing but several rusty planes of World War two era.
And that's it.
No one even died.
We always do our troops from that because Trump warned Russia about this.
And we know that that Russian troops a year ago were warned that United States were planning
to bomb this very base.
So technically they just bombed several old buildings and rusty planes that were not flying.
That was enough for a while for the globalists to feel that Trump is under their control.
Basically the situation, if we look at this realistically, will go that way.
So there is some kind of an object of infrastructure, a secondary object of infrastructure that
is almost useless.
And Trump would use it as a target, bomb it, and that's it.
And after that, he will get back and say, well, I'm victorious.
I punished Assad.
I told Russians that they are not the only power on the Middle East.
And well, that's fair enough.
It's not good.
It's the violation of international law.
It's military intervention into other UN member country.
But still it's not that bad.
The next level is destruction of primary infrastructure in Syria, or even bombing the capital, the
Damascus, where Assad and his team are.
It's a worse thing, and it would definitely harm the whole country.
It would definitely show that Trump is deeper in the swamp than we think now.
The even worse scenario is Trump not bombing not only Syrian infrastructure, but Iranian
infrastructure.
It also would be bad because it would involve another even bigger and stronger country.
And no one knows how Iranians would react because there are times it would fall.
I think we can have a pretty reasonable guess at how they would react to that, including
Russia.
Now, again, and the hope is, given the last breakdown of events in Syria, that Trump does
have some back channel they taught with Putin, and they're both aware of this political theater
going on to keep the globalists off the real scent, to keep the globalists off balance.
But like you said, as soon as they attack infrastructure in Iran or Syria, that is the
first step to World War III, and Russia is not going to take that lightly.
Thank you so much for joining us today, Andrei Afanasyev from sargrad.tv.
Your input is always appreciated here on The Alex Jones Show.
Thank you.
All right, folks.
And again, we're able to do all of this.
We got a 34-hour live broadcast coming up tomorrow.
The War Room kicks off at 3 o'clock here when The Alex Jones Show ends.
We're live 10 hours a day.
It's all possible with your support at infowarstore.com, so please support us there.
We sell great products.
We're not just selling you products you're not going to like.
We're selling you products that you are going to like.
You're going to come back and get more Brain Force Plus.
You're going to come back and get the Secret 12, both of which are on sale.
Secret 12, 25% off.
Even Force 50% off.
When we come back, we're going to hear from Alex Jones and some highlights from the press
conference yesterday addressing the attack on the First Amendment and the attack on Info
Wars.
We'll be right back.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors.
That's besides bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it
in Fuller's life. It takes hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine
4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread
the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Infowar's life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Visit infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy. We
went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy for energy
stamina, mental clarity, you name it. And we created a stronger formula than some of
the best-selling formulas out there. It's very simple. We went out and looked, what
is the top? What is the best? We'll just put even more product in. We'll make it better.
We need competitors, put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60. We put $10 in it and sell
it for $30. It's $19.95 right now. So you get an incredible top-of-the-line
new tropic for $19.95. Believe me, we're selling it for $35 on average. We need that $15, $20
we make to fund this operation in the face of the global threat of it. But I'm doing
this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks. I want to sell it all out before
the big supply comes in, and I want people that haven't tried BrainForce to try it and
find out why. It's got 6,000 plus 5-star reviews. It's amazing. InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLive.com
or AAA-2533-139. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. And now, the tip of the spear.
Alex Jones is a raging bull, virile, masculine, bull, bull, bull, bull. My question is, why
did you choose a historically immediate suppressor like this, so close to the main media? Well,
we did it because we are the real media. We wanted to come here and deliver a message
to the main media. The fact that they're losing ratings of viewers is because they've committed
that we're awake, that people understand there's attempts at censorship, and that their monopolies,
Facebook, Go Twitter, are going to be busted up. But, sir, that made me concerned that you
were the real Alex Jones, that you were yourself a crisis actor. And that I may be Jordan Clepper?
I don't know. Or Jordan Clepper? I don't know. So, sir, are you the real Alex Jones? Well,
you know. Or are you a crisis actor? Actually, I'm Bill Hiss. See, it in goes in. And it
is a crisis actor. And I just want to be clear. It's an explosive crisis actor. I think there's
a victim of this. And obviously, calling a victim a crisis actor would be a monster.
I didn't call those guys a crisis actor. You guys said I said that, edited the tape,
and then sat there and said, what a piece of crap to try to get angered in your target
of viewers. So, let me get this straight. The person standing in front of me is saying
that you have never implied. I never said those people were a crisis actor. You've never implied
that the victims of any mass shooting were fakes of crisis actors. You guys have been
saying that. You guys have been saying I said that about hard blood. See, that's not the truth.
You're not going to get a good editor. You're going to have to really edit this together
if this isn't what I've said. But good luck. Have you said that about standing home? No.
I said that they threw babies out of incubators and that that girl was basically a hired
actress. See, now you're sounding like the realized Jones that I know. This I believe.
But the babies out of the incubators did not happen when they launched the Iraq war
that killed millions of people in 1990. So, here's my question for you. When you're saying
things that might impact real people, do you feel any sense of responsibility for the
sirens that pass even if the people come near you? When you're saying things that might
impact real people's lives, do you feel any sense of responsibility? Actually, that's
the other question. Do you feel any sense of responsibility? Well, I don't feel responsibility
for you guys in this representing what I've said to then try to ban free speech in this
country. So, what does free speech give you the right to do? Free speech gives me the
right to be able to see people. No, no, no. Okay, yeah. Well, none of that's been found
in court. Right. Those slaps that are funded by George Soros are the best representatives
there are. So, free speech gives you the right to. But here's the deal. You guys sit here
and you do edit after edit after edit. You keep stopping and starting to try to get me to
say something so you can take it out of context so you guys can misrepresent stuff to your
I don't want to take you out of context. I just want to know if you're the Malitz
Jones. And you're right back to that same thing. What edit did they tell you to get?
I mean, what's the script? You're certainly an actor. You're a guy posing like you're
like a journalist. You're a wannabe comedian. Sorry, who are we describing? I'm talking
about you. Oh, sorry. So, are you basically an actor pretending to be a journalist? Yes,
yes, that's right. You're an actor pretending to be a journalist, pretending to be a
comedian. I mean, you said they're a confused audience like you're a news show. I don't
think, I don't think a person putting on a big performative show claiming to be a
journalist would get much of a following. Oh, yeah, really? But this is all about being
snarky. The whole point is you're fake news and that's why you're falling apart. So,
keep misrepresenting the thinking people in this country know what's going on. Okay.
You're a journalist. Why don't you check out Seth Rich? If you're a journalist, why don't
you check out real stuff? I bet you won't, I bet you won't put the dead babies in the
youth committee. Hold on, hold on. I bet you won't put on this program on Clefler's
show. Dead babies and incubators? We're probably not going to hear that. No, no, no. Not the
dead babies. Our government lied and said that they took babies out and bashed their
brains out in 1990 and Kuwait. It did not happen. It was a PR firm. They took the babies
out of incubators. Took incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor.
They had kids in incubators and they were thrown out of the incubators so that Kuwait
could be systematically dismantled. That stuff goes on. There are documents that have come
out in federal court that Antifa is funded by major foundations to go out and break things.
They're really breaking things, but they do it in a scripted way. If you're the real
Alex Jones, why haven't you offered to sell me any supplement yet? I know. I've been
talking about it. I'm like Jeff Bezos. Jeff Bezos sits there and he's the biggest
supplement seller in the world, but I'm not allowed to sell supplements. That's right.
Jeff Bezos, he can sell them and he can all what's true. Whole foods can sell supplements,
but I can. That's right. Exactly. Good. Put it in there. That's a good point. No, that
response is real. Supplements are a $50 billion industry. If it's real, how do I know it?
There you go. If you're not scripted, how do I know the words you're saying? Sell us the
brain force. We got brain force plus. Top neutral. My shipment actually didn't come
of brain force plus. Brain force plus, yeah. Yeah, do you mind? Absolutely. Oh my gosh,
thank you. Oh, wow. This feels really safe. Oh, look at that. Look at that little beard.
That's all the meaning. That is very respectful communication. Thank you so much.
Now you're rushing up another little trendy. I had a question. Brain force, brain force
plus. Brain force plus. Oh my God, they're going to get all the script. Oh my God, they're
just going to see the script and then we'll add it together. Why is that different then?
Oh, I had a thing on my head. Oh, man. Eat your brain force. Eat your brain force. Eat
your brain force. Come on. I think the real Alex Jones will be a little more respectful
of me today. Eat your brain force. Oh, wow. They taste like Hoxter. Oh, that's good. Oh,
brain force. Brain force plus. They're scared of you funding us. Grift. Oh, big word. Why
won't you take it? You know, it's funny. I was raised not to take pills that strangers
on the street gave. I'm a stranger, you know what I mean? I don't know if you're the real
Alex Jones. But you have Bezos that can sell them. You have Bezos that whole foods can
sell them because this is actually basically sold at Whole Foods. But this is actually for
more money. But here's my question. Hey, right now I'm selling 1995 in FullWareStore.com.
See how much are this by, folks? Brain force plus, the quality. Sir, what responsibility
do you feel to check the information put out in the world before you put it out? Well,
like seeing it online about WMDs. No, I'm not talking about seeing it. We have a better
record of seeing it. We do it. We work hard. So what ethical bar do you need to clear
before you put information out? We question big events when they have the appearance of
the media jumping on it with a big PR push. That's not the question. What's the ethical
bar you need to clear before you put information out? I mean, the ethical bar is we do
research. There's fast moving news events that unfold. And so just like any other media
organization, we look at it. That's not an answer. What's the bar you have to clear? Walk
me through your fact-checking process. Well, the fact-checking process is we specifically
let's use that there is a photo you put up of a man who was not the person shooting
the U-25. We had hundreds of other sites put up. And we didn't publish his name. How did
you fact-check that? Mainstream media did. What was your process for fact-checking? We said,
this is posted on one of the Facebook pages that's associated with him. We don't know
about him. And other people did that as well. Okay, so that's why my lawyers said this
suit will go nowhere. It's also you have that prop to hold that up to make him look like
I'm guilty. Are the guys here? You felt comfortable putting that kid's information on Facebook
and getting it back into the world. So can I? Oh, is there traffic? Can you see?
Oh my God, you're so smart. God, you're so intellectual. All the soy boys. You're like a
soy boy, God. Thank you so much. So just give me one more time. What's the definition of the person
that you mentioned? Listen, we got to go to a meeting. I really appreciate you guys. Can I
come to this four o'clock press conference? We'll see. We don't really have fake news
there. But we'll see if you'll take your brand force. You can come and you take your
brand force. Why wasn't I allowed? Why wasn't I allowed?
If you RSVP, didn't they RSVP? I told them, I told them we were
had too many people and that they had, we had another event at four to six.
So we invited you to the next event. I didn't let you in. I didn't say we were so excited to have them here.
Hashtag so excited. If you were the real Alex Jones, I would eat that pill.
But I'm just not sure you're the real Alex Jones. I'm not sure like an animatronic robot from
Chuck E. Cheese. I'm pretty sure I'm not an animatronic robot. I think you look like the rat from Chuck
E. Cheese. Alex Jones is a raging bull, viral, masculine, bull, bull, bull, bull. Alex Jones,
Alex Jones, Alex Jones, masculine, bull, bull, Alex Jones, Alex Jones, masculine, bull.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
Hi, I'm Millie Weaver.
I'm a reporter for InfoWars and the reason I brought this microphone up here to show you guys is there have been so many times that I've been accosted, spit at, had urine thrown on me by rogue people,
especially Antifa groups, radical communists, leftist groups, because of the lies and propaganda that the mainstream media spews about InfoWars and Alex Jones.
So I get attacked because of these lies, physically attacked.
Now, a lot of this lawsuit that's been put against Alex Jones and InfoWars surrounds Charlottesville.
I was there in Charlottesville. I was the InfoWars reporter on the ground reporting to you guys what happened.
We all know that the mainstream media afterward decided to spin a bias one-sided storyline that you had a bunch of rogue KKK extremists come and attack a bunch of peaceful protesters out there.
What I can tell you is that because I had the ability to live stream and to broadcast on social media, which those broadcasts went viral, I was able to show what exactly actually happened out there in Charlottesville.
The truth spoke for itself.
Okay, there was violence on both sides, but I will say the overwhelming majority of the violence was coming from the Antifa leftist anti-protestors, the ones protesting people who were out there trying to stand up for protecting a statue.
And yes, there were rogue elements on both sides, but one side came with pepper spray, tear gas canisters, ice chests full of water balloons with chemicals and urine and feces in them to throw,
and that was depicted and caught through my ability to live stream, broadcast on Facebook, on YouTube, on these social media sites that they want to remove us from.
I got the truth out there with Charlottesville, while at the same time, myself and my cameraman especially were pepper spray in the face for being info wars.
I made it clear to both the Antifa and some of the radical elements on the alternative right side that we did not agree with any of their positions.
We do not agree with communism, we do not agree with fascism, but what I told them was, I do agree with your right to free speech.
Both of you guys have a right to be out here and peacefully protest.
That didn't stop us from being pepper sprayed and attacked because of the lies and the propaganda that the mainstream media spreads about us and info wars.
That's why it's so important that we protect, repress, guerrilla journalists, all of us out here today who are in this room should understand and know the importance of our ability to go out there and tell the truth when sometimes the moral integrity of mainstream media is lapsed.
Thank you very much. I appreciate the honor to speak here today. Thanks, Alex.
Hi, my name is Suzanne Monk. I'm a host of Trump Talk US. I want to thank you first of all for doing this. My question to my viewers is, is there any class action lawsuits that are being put against the banners, against the people who are censoring us?
This is one of our greatest concerns that we find a way to actually be able to fight back. They're suing us. Is there any way we can sue them?
Well, you know, I think as this lawsuit illustrates, so many states have these anti slap statutes that allow somebody who's being victimized by an abusive lawsuit to push back and say you don't get to go to the courts to take action against people just because you disagree with their protected speech.
You can force people filing that kind of abusive lawsuit to pay the attorney's fees, to be sanctioned. So, I mean, that's really where the legal ballgame is, is in fighting these suits one by one and making it clear to people that you don't get to go to court to fight over politics, to fight over beliefs.
That's just not what it's for.
What confidence do you have in the courts? I raised that question. My name's Cliff Kincaid with America Survival TV because we just reported on a group of Obama judges in the Fourth Circuit,
ruling that a war memorial in Bladensburg, Maryland has to be destroyed. It's been sitting for 100 years because it includes a Christian cross. This is what the courts are about now. You know it, I know it.
So, what confidence do you have in the courts that they're going to rule on the basis of law and the Constitution and not rule against you and Alex Jones because they don't like you?
You know, our federal courts, it's a wonderful court system. There are some bad eggs here and there. There are judges who sometimes issue questionable rulings.
But at the same time, it's a system that works pretty well. There's a lot of variation between the states. But I think over and all, at this point, with our constitutional rights, you generally get a fair shake, not always, but generally.
Mr. Grossman, Jason Goodman from Crowd Source the Truth. The same individual who spoke to Alex about Martian slave children has brought a lawsuit against Crowd Source the Truth after we introduced evidence that he's engaged in felony charity fraud.
Is there any way that I can bring that to the attention of authorities and have him brought up on criminal charges? Not as a punitive step against the lawsuit, but it seems like the lawsuit is an effort on his part to suppress that information and silence me.
I can't really comment on that because I'm not familiar with the facts of the matter. Obviously, if you have an attorney representing you in your lawsuit, you should probably speak with them about that.
Well, and of course, as you've stated, that's his goal, the punitive measures of the financial damage, something like that would cause. But thank you for your answer.
Thanks, ma'am. Good luck.
So, a lot is going on. My name is Cherie Sabre, Mom's with Trump. It appears to me, Mr. Jones and everyone here, there will be a lot of lawsuits going forward.
And this is a very interesting time that we're living in, as we all know. The question with all the lawsuits that are going on and that will be going on.
My question is, countersuits. Is there such a thing? Simply, countersuits. Can people countersuit?
Well, this is exactly what we're talking about with this case and the anti-slap motion that we filed today. When somebody files one of these frivolous, abusive lawsuits merely to punish their political enemies,
the way to respond to that in the states that allow it is to file an anti-slap motion to get that case dismissed and to sanction the other side for abusing the court system to punish their political enemies.
That's the way I think over a period of time that you change the incentives for this kind of litigation so that people realize that if they bring these kinds of suits, they're going to face consequences for doing it.
And let me just jump in because that's the one point I should have made when I got up here today is, we have basically filed a suit back against them with this filing to have it thrown out.
Then, citing the slap statute, the lawyers here, if I get it wrong, that is a lawsuit. We are going for the damages of the cost, our time and energy via this fraudulent suit.
So I should have just opened this up by saying, we're citing the anti-slap statute. This is clearly a textbook case. We're going to fight this.
And then when it's defeated, which we believe it will be because it's so classically fraudulent, they will have to pay attorney's fees and some type of damages.
So we are countersuing. Is that accurate, counselor? That is right. We have filed an anti-slap motion under the Texas Anti-Slap Statute as well as the Virginia Anti-Slap Statute.
They both provide this kind of relief and obviously we're very confident in our legal arguments. I think there's a last question in the back.
Hi.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Oh, I'm so sorry. You go ahead.
I'm Carrie Donovan from Populist Wire and I was being sued by the same group that was suing Roger just as a citizen.
And we do citizen journalism at Populist Wire.
So my question is, I'm trying to bring people in and give them a platform to speak and post their stuff.
And now I'm really kind of scared. I'm thinking, what can I do to help protect just the average American citizen?
That's the whole point. Now we're learning about all these little folks that are being sued. There's a huge underground campaign.
You're an expert on this. Follow us. How big is this iceberg under the water of Soros and leftist bullying?
I mean, we have seen more and more of this in recent years. People, rather than engaging in public debate, simply going to court to challenge people and bringing defamation claims and emotional distress claims and things like that, then in many cases are unfounded.
It is abusive. States are getting wise to that and they're passing statutes to deal with that. There are some great resources online from the Recorders Committee for the Freedom of the Press and from some others that provide background on those statutes.
There are groups that provide pro bono legal defense for individuals who are subject to those kinds of lawsuits and can provide advice on how to deal with them.
There really are a lot of resources out there, but it is a huge problem and one that unfortunately is only growing.
Mr. Grossman, good morning. Good morning. The InfoWars seems great to have you guys in D.C.
As a citizen journalist myself who's been encouraged to join the fight, finding InfoWars and looking for the truth, again, it's great to have you guys here.
I'm just curious what you think about the modern day legal profession and having lawyers for hire these days.
They're willing to file just about any type of lawsuit against free speech groups like Alex Jones and people fighting to get the real news out.
What does it say about when millions of dollars are just brought to these lawyers to bring these types of lawsuits forward?
What does it say about the profession these days?
I mean, everybody has a right to legal representation, both when they're subject to criminal charges, but also just as a general matter to represent them in whatever disputes they may have to petition the government and so on.
But at the same time, every time a lawyer signs a pleading before a court, that lawyer is certified that there is a colorable basis for that claim and that it's based upon law and that it's based upon facts.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding.
Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in Fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
