Well, the deep state is going into hyperdrive war against President Trump and basically
all of his supporters in an attempt to bully and silence free speech.
It's amazing what we see unfolding.
No joke.
Judge who forced Cohen to ID Hannity performed Soros wedding and was tapped to be Bill Clinton's
attorney general.
And now we learn she ordered all of Cohen's files to be put into a searchable federal database
show that the federal employees at the FBI could all get into it and leak it more efficiently.
You cannot underestimate just how lawless all of this is and how deceptive Judge and
Michael Cohen's case officiated George Soros wedding.
It's George Soros financing the lawsuits against me two more filed yesterday.
Lucky Q top law firms that they read the lawsuits and they said these are the most frivolous
things we've ever seen.
They're not even based on reality.
What they say we said against the Sandy Hook families.
We did not even say any listener knows that if you've tuned in, you probably heard me
say a thousand times, I think kids died there.
It looks like Cooper's using a blue screen Nancy Grace is in a parking lot with cars
going in a circle around her seeing it's famous for cheating on locations.
So they don't let a good crisis go to waste.
So people have a legitimate right to ask questions when our government got caught staging babies
out of incubator death to launch the war.
We showed footage yesterday.
The media doesn't want to challenge where it looks like they're faking a chemical attack.
We're not saying chemical attacks don't happen.
The rebels have been caught doing it.
But the white helmets have been caught staging stuff.
I mean, you know, the doctor winks, he goes get ready, he falls over conveniently and
little kid stops acting like he's dying and smiles.
I mean, look, that looks fake and I have a right to say that I get sued for it fine.
But the white helmets have been caught staging stuff before.
Now we have a stand down in Florida.
And that's the news that we put out days after it happened that they deleted off YouTube
and then said, Joan says no kids died.
So it's clear they're trying to line that up.
They'll probably follow suit saying Joan said nobody died it.
The Florida shooting on Valentine's Day.
And they'll probably edit tapes together where I said that happened.
That's what the news does.
They take these out of context, roughly devil's advocate make a statement where I say I can
see how with all the lies we've seen the media and false flags and weirdy regularities where
people think, you know, nobody died at XYZ.
But I can't 100% say that.
And some of these parents don't look pretty legitimate to me.
So the point is you shouldn't take shootings and blame all gun owners and try to take the
second amendment.
You know, we question Vegas because of our law enforcement sources.
They still won't say what happened there and have delayed the report.
They say they won't bring it up for a while.
They waited five years to bring out a police report on Sandy Hook.
The stuff never has never happened before.
So we have a right to investigate it.
But clearly these lawsuits aren't intended to win.
They're intended to put out the false statements again that I'm saying nobody died there.
And no matter how many times I tell the news that or say it, they still say, Jones says
nobody died and they'll show some little edited three second clip.
And then Megyn Kelly wouldn't even let me answer the question straight.
And they act like they've got me over to barrel that, ooh, this is the weak spot.
I, about a year after Sandy Hook, when we had big debates about it and then the anomaly
said, you know what?
I think people died there.
And Paul Watson was the guy really pushed me to do that because he went over all the
evidence with me.
He day one said, said that no, the media was building a tar baby.
He was right.
And that's why I pulled back because some of the groups out there saying that they were
all actors there were saying that I was Jeff Bridges or Bo Bridges and then I was Bill
Hicks.
So I said, you know what?
I'm not going to be bullied by the folks that say nobody died.
The media saw that then as a weakness that hung around my neck has been beating the drum
forever.
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy.
We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy
for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it.
And we created a stronger formula than some of the best selling formulas out there.
It's very simple.
We went out and looked, what is the top?
What is the best?
We'll just put even more product in.
We'll make it better.
Leading competitors, put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60.
We put $10 in it and sell it for $30.
It's $19.95 right now.
So you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95 believe me, we're selling
it for $35 on average.
We need that $15, $20 we make to fund this operation in the face of the global threat
of it.
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks.
I want to shell it all out before the big supply comes in and I want people that haven't
tried BrainForce to try it and find out why.
It's got 6,000 plus five star reviews.
It's amazing, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com or AAA-2533-139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
First April, I was visited by failed TV commentator, Megan Kelly, and then after the interview
aired weeks later on Father's Day, I got to watch one of the Sandy Hook parents.
They say that I say nobody died there, despite the fact I had been saying for at least three
years before that, that I believe people died there.
And then we responded to it and to what sounded like talking points, just like what we've
seen in Parkland, Florida, where they pick four students out of 3,000 who are anti-gun.
George Soros is March for Women that he wholly funds basically, funds the whole March for
Our Lives movement.
I point out there's a police stand down from the local witnesses.
He deletes our videos, freezes my channel with billions of views, and says, Jones says
nobody died in Florida, and Jones says they're all crisis actors.
Now all of you heard those shows, you saw the videos, you saw the articles, you saw
in real time them attempt to run a hoax on you, and they believe once they can run the
hoax on Info Wars and shut us down, it is the model to shut down Sean Hannity and Laura
Ingram and Rush Limbaugh and Matt Drudge and everybody else.
And even the Wall Street Journal two months ago said, we have a formula to shut Alex Jones
down, and when we're done with him, we'll shut everyone down.
There were derivative articles off that, hold on to your ten-fold hat, Alex Jones, YouTube
is going to shut you down.
And they explained that if they can define something as bullying, someone can be banned.
Well, if you criticize Islam in Europe in most areas, you get arrested, they call it
bullying.
But they go one step further, if they can't find something I'm saying that doesn't sound
reasonable, they will make up things I've said so that they can then misrepresent that
to the public, try me in the court of public opinion, then sue me after they've had every
comedy show and every news show and every newspaper over and over and over again.
Say Jones told his listeners to call the families of Sandy Hook victims and threaten
them.
He said that, there's no video, but they're just building that ledger because leftist
ideology is all about victimization.
It's all about we're victims, so we get to go out and take your speech or take your
property or we get reparations, all white people, even though something like 78 percent
of whites living in this country came from whites that immigrated here after slavery
was outlawed that had nothing to do with it.
And that of the 80 percent or close to it, they're all basically guilty by extension.
And out of the 21 percent whose ancestors go back the time of slavery, less than 2 percent
of those people are related to folks that had slaves.
But it doesn't matter, you see, because it's the whole leftist victimology and the Democratic
Party and the trial lawyers and the ambulance chasers and all of them.
The group suing me with two suits they filed yesterday in Travis County is out of Houston,
calls themselves the exploding tire lawyers.
And reportedly the creme de la creme of the vaunted ambulance chasers.
And then you read the letters they sent us last week and said, you need to retract this,
you did this, you did that, of course it's in their lawsuit that I didn't retract, we
got a month to retract, but I couldn't retract it because we went and watched the videos
and what they say we said isn't there.
That's what's amazing about this.
And so here's the real history of it.
And then I'm going to my lawyers are finishing a statement that we had last night.
We were sending to him saying, hey, come on the show.
This isn't what we really said.
You're out of your statute of limitations off even what's twisted statutorily.
You're following this three months after these newest statements.
The suit doesn't stand.
It doesn't stand just by law, but we like to invite Posner and others on so we can humanize
this and you talk about your experience so that if you claim that people misrepresenting
what I've said are giving you any problems, that can be neutralized.
But here's the deal, the Democratic Party and the media and all of it keep recycling
that I'm saying nobody died three plus years after I've clearly said, I believe people
died there.
And so it's the mainstream media.
It's the whole culture.
It's the people that were involved going on TV, keeping it going constantly and then saying
I'm the one still saying it.
Well, that's false statements about myself.
But that's what they do because they think they found a weak spot.
Well, I'll tell you the weak spot for me, it's called the truth.
And Paul Watson, when it all happened said, Jones, I wouldn't even entertain these groups
looking at these anomalies because yeah, sure, there's some anomalies and CNN did some interviews
where they say they're on satellite, but they're not, you know, the CNN's been caught hundreds
of times doing that.
And yeah, there's weird stuff and yeah, there was an armed guy in the woods.
The media later said there wasn't even though there's helicopter footage.
Yeah, but yeah, but this is a tar baby set up with the media and he said, look at these
groups saying nobody died.
They're saying you're Beau Bridges and they're saying you're Bill Hicks.
He showed me and I was like, whoa, this is, I said, you know what?
You're right.
I'm being called a crisis actor myself.
They say I'm Beau Bridges.
That's completely crazy.
So I went on air and I said, look, this whole crisis actor thing's gotten out of control.
Sure.
We got documents where they hire Antifa.
They train them on how much violence to engage in on trying to get others to be engaged in
violence.
That is crisis actors being hired.
Hillary hires actor groups for her fake town halls.
That came out.
Yeah, that stuff goes on, but only when we can totally prove it.
When it turns into all the parents are actors and I'm an actor, it's a tar baby.
And so over three years ago, well, I mean, it was more like a year after like four years
ago, I would even try to host debates with both sides.
And then the people, just because I would hear out the other side would say, you're
an agent.
Who said everybody were actors.
And I go, no, I'm not an agent.
I think there's holes in your arguments about this mass shootings happen.
I'm against them blaming gun owners.
Why are they always on Prozac type drugs?
Why do the police always stand down?
I think that there's benign negligence here actually turning into conscious negligence
by the authorities, gross concentrated premeditated negligence in these victim's arm and zones.
And they go, oh, that's it.
You're a fed.
You're covering up.
So you see the media has lost credibility with dead babies and incubators that didn't
exist in fake WMDs and all the stuff we've seen in CNN saying they're under skit, scud
missile attack in 1991 when they're really at CNN center in Atlanta.
And they've caught Brian Williams and all the fake news and Hillary and fake news chance
he was on the tarmac and fake town halls and fake polls and given the questions to Hillary
and Google gaming the results that people don't believe anything anymore.
So they think I'm in on the deception and they think mainstream media is 100 times worse.
And you really can't blame these people for going crazy because when all the establishment
media has been caught lying so much, what's really happening?
What do people do?
Then I read all these lawsuits against me, none of them have merit.
None of it's ever what I really said.
And you just realize it's the total bottom falling out.
It's free for all planet hoax, crazy town.
That's what it is.
It's just people deciding at every level they can just be as deceptive as possible.
And then if I try to be actually honest and really look at things, they use that as weakness
and then misrepresent what it is.
But coming up, the latest big warning is Soros is a judge going after Trump and more.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier
I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305.
Or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Face it, today's electric power grid is more vulnerable than ever.
From natural disasters to EMP attacks and hacking, the grid could be crippled for days
or even decades in the most dire scenarios.
Visit quantumharvest.net to see our built to last EMP protected solar power systems.
While millions suffer, you'll have vital power for water pumps, refrigeration and sanitation.
Now that's peace of mind, EMP protected solar power systems for every need and budget.
See our full range at quantumharvest.net.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Schipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best expose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a surgeon.
Get them right now at killingunclesambook.com, killingunclesambook.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Once down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly
to the Chiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't
think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free
press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available
at infowarslife.com.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a Patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow Patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex.
Thank you.
I use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks for big normal toothpaste
fans.
The super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for the infowars life products
they are quality.
I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated Patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves we can take our country back.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption Alex Jones show the old corporate corrupt media basically has
no more viewers or listeners.
They are a shadow of their former selves.
They're having massive layoffs on a daily basis.
They're going bankrupt.
They're consolidating.
They're being propped up by kingpins like Bezos and Carlos Slim the New York Times
of Washington Post.
So they are openly in the final days of Obama signing executive orders to use the CIA against
independent American media and to develop plans with stay behind networks inside the
Justice Department and CIA.
This is in the news.
We wrote about it.
Zero Hedge wrote about it.
Atlantic Monthly wrote about it in 2016 how they were going to crush us.
And now we have Kimba Wood five facts you should know the judge that authorized the raid
on Michael Cohen Trump's lawyer Oh and remember the law says they're not supposed to distribute
that to anybody but the investigators in the case.
She ordered all of Trump's private files to be digitized and put on a federal server
so that the bureau can all access it and leak it to their hearts content.
She married George Soros and his third wife a few years ago.
And Bill Clinton wanted her to be his attorney general.
That's why these people are so arrogant.
They're on such incredible power trips and now the left is taking over the judiciary.
What 80% of your lawyers in the country are Democrats or more.
And they've moved from ambulance chasing to trying to destroy the First Amendment and
bully everybody and CNN was breathless and MSNBC was.
Really and totally and absolutely breathless incredibly breathless talking about Sean Hannity
talked to Michael Cohen it's over he needs to be fired you can't be and again you can't
be represented by the president's lawyer and still be talking to the president which isn't
even true in many facets a that's not true but B Hannity put out a statement I've never
been represented by him.
I talked to him I talked to the president I get legal advice from him on things for
the show.
That's totally normal but think about how you've got Stephanophilus and Axelrod I mean
half the people on MSNBC ABC NBC CBS formally work for the Clintons or Obama and they'll
sit there and interview people they used to work with and never even point that out but
oh my gosh Hannity's in a bunch of trouble why he got caught why it's unethical why
we'll news corps let him stay on why we need more boycotts get rid of Laura Ingram why how
dare her she talked back to a public figure David hug Jimmy Kimmel mocks my pal Sean Hannity
over Trump lawyer bombshell CNN bombshell just shelter Sean Hannity has few rules and
now Fox has a problem oh yeah you don't have any ratings Fox does I get it you want them
off the air so what's going on here is Trump's announced he's pulling out of Syria again today
good thank you Trump you're coming through North Korea announces what I told you two months
ago they're going to do that they're ending the war officially in a few weeks that never
got ended and they're talking about merging oh suddenly they're coming to the table under
Trump's leadership but that doesn't matter because we've got no joke judge who forced
Cohen to ID Hannity performed Soros wedding that's on info wars dot com but here's here's
five of the facts you should know about Kimba Wood Bill Clinton once wanted would to be his
attorney general and Hillary Clinton was involved the process according to her own biography
they praised her as a legal scholar according to Washington Post and the best judge would
employ an illegal immigrant babysitter but still sentenced Michael Milken for the same
thing I guess number three would once trained as a playboy bunny and she was named after
an Australian town rapist arm look at her boy a big power trip that show people a picture
of this lady look at that they're in charge they're gonna do whatever they want Wood was
famously dubbed the love judge of a romantic scandal would presided over the wedding of
George Soros and was once called a lifelong Democrat but that's okay George Soros did
many crimes he wants that's okay too and you could have struck and all the rest of them
at the Justice Department and the FBI fixed the steel dossier the PP dossier they can
put all that out they can do all that and they can criminally send hundreds of thousands
of dollars to each other's wives and husbands who are on the threat fusion GPS job who only
got hired for the dossier and then Hillary give a half million dollars to McCabe and
McCabe can blame other epiages for leaks and turned out it was him all of that's criminal
but all of that's okay and Tommy can criminally link and so can all the rest of them and Rosenstein
can be a Clinton insider and set this whole thing up they can raid Trump's lawyer they
can have six different Clinton law firms with former lawyers that work directly for Hillary
at the State Department the White House you name it all sue me with now 16 lawsuits and
they're all completely frivolous and all completely fake and they always file them and then go
oh Jones wasn't immediately available they follow the suit a day later they go oh you're
not immediately available we wrote the story yesterday they admit they write the stories
days before they all haunt show it together with the mainstream media in total collusion
and then they come out and say things about us we didn't say there's Martian basis with
humans but slaves on it never said that on and on and on they misrepresent how many times
you heard me say I believe people died at Sandy Hook you've you listened to a hundred times
you probably heard me say it 20 times say it all the time but they follow also saying
I said that nobody died and they're all liars yesterday and then there's a statute of limitations
back at the time you had babies out of incubators that didn't die fake WMDs a lot of weird anomalies
I had listeners not believing and I said well let's investigate it I could see how you think
that but let's see if you're right and within about a year I said you know what I gotta say
people probably died but a lot of weird stuff went on not releasing the police reports bulldozing
the school after was clearly a stand down that's not the parents and the Democrats kind of
gave some of the parents stuff they wanted them to say and you know in the moment there
was definitely some some some some talking points but that's not that's not being actors
and actresses but never will mainstream media even have me saying that or doing that they
always just go back with little two second quick edited clips where I'm having devils
advocating the debate I can see how you believe nobody died sir but you know what about this
sir what about that anomaly or you know Jimmy can you stand there and tell the parents that
to their face I don't see that you know the government being that bold to pull something
off that crazy that's all edited out and then they misrepresent and they have the exploding
tire law firm that's what's called I mean wow file these things that again are the defamatory
statements against me myself and info wars meant to shut us down but within a lawsuit
they believe are protected you see and and and so it's just the mainstream media and
the whole combine using children and using hurt families to try to get them on board
and not just quite the second amendment but also the first amendment stay with us water
is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best
for you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the
burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency get to go burky dot com or call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653
go burky dot com this is Dan Pilla do you have the irs money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you I've defended people from the irs for over 30 years I've helped thousands and I can help you to I wrote the book on irs settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never been a better time to solve your problem call 834 no tax that's 834 no tax or my website danpilla.com
after years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting edge science we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids one of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat other proteins better and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best
strains in fluorolive advanced restoration and we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance but all of these are the very cutting edge top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price that is my goal here is to bring you the very best at the lowest
price when you purchase it and then for store.com you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing the shield toxic metal and chemical defense support
it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info or it is a classical 360 when this is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can
possibly get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of America to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Field and info warslife.com
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info warslife. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect
head to info warslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139
resistance to tyrants is obedience to god it's alex jones
so folks here is the big news the judge is a clinton favorite clinton operative who married george soros and his third wife a few years ago who has been involved in all sorts of corruption cases and then she has ordered
the entire private database of michael cohen and donald trump digitize and put in a federal searchable database so all of the clinton operatives can log in
grab the material and leak it to the forewinds however they want how's that for justice
but here's the thing they wouldn't be doing all this bold criminal stuff in my view if they weren't going down the tubes
they wouldn't be doing any of that if they weren't in pure crisis mode and here's the thing i love trump i got mad about the airstrikes because i know they were bold
he's got north korea coming to the table but the fact that the globalist hate trump and the fact that he's bringing sovereignty back and bringing jobs back that shows you that they are really upset and that now we're basically with trump or against trump
and we need to understand that if trump fails we have people that are consciously evil who consciously have openly said they want to end free speech in this country
they just come out now and issued a withdrawal plan arab occupational forces and arabs will pay for it the middle east will pay for it and that would end the civil war because it would be a partnership of the arab countries who are already financing and
and so that would basically give them the transitional power then let Assad have elections and then they would have to pull out which was really the original plan five years ago the pentagon set up with Assad
and then they basically told obama we're not doing your immoral plan and turning this over to al qaeda and isis now we knew this was the case months ago
but it's clearly a message to russia they better go along with the deal and i'm not defending the strikes i still think they're a terrible idea
because we know the rebels are the ones behind the last chemical attacks there's no evidence these new chemical attacks even happened mainstream media runs videos that are clearly fake
i mean if you're a tv viewer play the clip from this weekend it's been all over the internet all over tv of a chemical weapons attack and they spliced in with old attacks that did happen of clearly dying people but let's let's roll some of that footage for tv viewers
now again a normal person would see the doctor there wink he looks over says get ready he falls over no one else falls over around him and they zoom in with the camera and the little kid above him starts laughing
that kid's looking around in between acts like they're convulsing i mean it's fake it's like a bad play wink falls over there you go surgical mask below the nose this is just this is bad acting and by the way who thinks all these doctors are really 18 years old 16 years old
i mean look at this now i just spent the last 30 minutes saying that i don't think the parents from sandy hook were actors
i think the media clearly they got with the media and the talking points the democrats were there and all these folks are democrats and so they had an agenda of being anti gun we know that for a fact we know they're now anti free speech some of them
but you know on this whole sandy hook thing there's some interesting opportunities here because we can get these thrown out even in travis county i mean they're they're they're so badly done and filed wrong and all the rest of it
they're publicity stunts by the media again yes using the parents who are big public figure anti gun advocates but what if i go ahead with it and then depose them and everything
because when you actually sue somebody for defamation it's a big two way street defamation case you get everything bank records all of it and then the pis can actively go out and do everything
let's see they think there'll be enough George Soros finance lawsuits at the end of it to where we won't be here in the digital age will always be here and you'll never be able to know platform us
and you're failing you're trying to get rid of Laura Ingram her ratings went up 30 something percent extra million viewers
hand it is bigger than ever we're bigger than ever our listeners the amount of affiliates the amount of new TV stations picking us up they all know this is a hoax they all know this is a fraud we're getting more radio stations more TV stations more networks more channels
because Americans understand this country is fighting for its life right now
now i'm going to get into more news coming up on the economics on North Korea on what the left's up to on other bizarre statements where they're saying top dim women dying because dims losing elections bunch of clips coming up and we have several guests joining us
but before i go any further here as i always like to say you have a choice to make in the fight against the globalist are you going to stand with the first amendment and stand with them for wars unshaking like a peninsula rocky peninsula out in the middle of the
Atlantic Ocean that the big waves can't bring down or will you tire of the fight the animating contest of liberty and let Soros and the globalist win we make it easy we sell great products that you and your family need that many cases change people's lives that fund our operation
and if you'll just monthly sign up for auto ship an additional 10% off on the high quality organic coffee or supplements that you need to reorder or high quality storeable food with a free Alexa for your breeze right now three month supply great deal
if you will just support us and understand that we're the number one target after trump right now and we've never betrayed you and we stand for the first amendment the second amendment sovereignty the whole nine yards
if you'll just get our ultimate turmeric formula bodies for your husband your wife your children your neighbor your grandparents your teacher your professor your boss your employees if you'll just get the x2 if you'll just get the real red pill these are amazing game changing products
just try out the 80 plus supplements we've got the our great sleep aid knockout our great prostaguard stronger than the leading brand with saw palmato eight other ingredients known to help the prostate and other glands for about half the price of leading competitors
stronger lower price info or short.com if you'll just go there look at the non GMO heirloom seeds the time of year to order those more the widest elections online very low prices we need a new emergency radio or new shortwave radio or some new optics or some new great body armor
there's all sorts of amazing products and info or short.com and the good news is these lawsuits are very very very very frivolous and have huge holes in them and are the most fraudulent major law firms have ever seen
the problem is they're filing them in Democrat controlled places where they're you know Travis County and Dites Rick Perry for no reason they and I
Republican fundraisers Republican members of the House constantly it's all out of Travis County and so they think because the political nature somehow they'll be able to you know to do that well whatever ladies and gentlemen
the issue is we're going to be here for years to come and I'll be broadcasting in so many other ways and so many other places we're building we're expanding we're hiring more people we're in a good position
they know that they know we're exploding they know we predicted what was really going to happen they know that globalism's in trouble they know people are really tuning in now they're trying to miss brand us as bad people as fake news and then destroy us
just like they're trying to arrest Trump and his lawyer and it's Soros' top judge and she's leaking all the stuff to the media I mean it's crazy you need to support us please pray for us we pray for you but also Trump needs to take the gloves off
man the Attorney General is compromised we need to fund this operation ladies and gentlemen and I make it really easy we went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy for energy stamina mental clarity you name it and we created a stronger formula than some of the best selling formulas out there it's very simple
we went out and looked what is the top what is the best we'll just put even more product in we'll make it better leading competitors put $2 a product in it sell it for $60 we put $10 in it and sell it for $30 it's $19.95 right now
so you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95 believe me we're selling it for $35 on average we need that $15-$20 we make to fund this operation in the face of the globalist the rest of it but I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks
I want to sell it all out before the big supply comes in and I want people that haven't tried brain force to try it and find out why it's got 6000 plus five star reviews it's amazing
infowarstore.com infowarslife.com or AAA 2533139 I want to plow into all of this but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or AAA 2533139
and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the infowar to fight the globalist and living a free society several years ago I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well
this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available infowarslife.com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non GMO it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience low metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com
Waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
so I didn't pick this job to be popular I didn't pick this job for myself at the end of the day to have a bigger house or fly around on a helicopter or private jet I do this job because I see corrupt globalists that have hijacked this country
and then horrible things other nations they have full control of and then I know we have to stand against them so I have to cover the hard topics to break the ice to make it safe for other people to look at those issues like global government
or the attack on the family or the fact that radical Islam is being funded by Western intelligence agencies and think tanks and foundations to break down Christian nations
the war on Christians the war on Christmas the war on literature the war on art the war on thought
the popular street artists we're gonna get him on today but there's so much coming up I'm gonna move into later in the broadcaster tomorrow Sabbo's been banned off Twitter
and all he does is very powerful clean street art street art this is real tyranny folks so they want to not intimidate me they know I'm not gonna back down
the globalists want to intimidate you they want you to think well if I roll over if I go along I'll get ahead no we stood up against the British crown and produced a nation that wasn't perfect
but produced the most wealth and freedom the planet's ever seen lying down creates tyranny it creates entropy
now that said I want to get to some of these clips they're really important and I want to open the phones up in the next hour and ask you this question when are you gonna strike back and how
when is Trump gonna strike back and how we've seen Trump come out and talk about how Bezos runs a monopoly and gets government funding $1.50 for every package
it was $1.48 and what's going on and all the other things they do in the sweatshops they went down 30 something billion he exposed Facebook and how it wasn't just his campaign trying to data mine it publicly and legally
the data mines as a company itself it went down 40 billion I mean a lot of globalist institutions are in trouble the universities are collapsing
mainstream media is collapsing they're in their death rows trying to pull us down with them but what are we going to do to get really aggressive as libertarians as nationalists as conservatives
what are we going to do we're not litigious dirtbags we're not bullies we don't go to Democrat rallies and point guns at him or hit people in the heads of the bike locks like Antifa does
so what are we going to do that's a question because we're culturally winning the young people are starting to wake up not the millennials some of those are awake but on average they're not
generation Z's really awake the globalists know the clock is ticking against them they're only hopes to bring in giant third world populations and then quickly indoctrinate them into leftist ideology
but they're leaving Venezuela they're leaving Cuba they're leaving that stuff so they have problems with them as well they want prosperity on average
so Soros and Sanders offer them all these freebies which they're not really going to get
but when is Trump going to strike back against George Soros and Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton's favorite judge she's in the New York Times at their weddings
no one authorizing the raid on Trump's lawyer and then she orders it put on an FBI digitally searchable database in the FBI files which there's federal laws and an ongoing case you're not supposed to do
she's putting it out there for plausible deniability for leaking well yeah they raided him a week ago within a couple days on Friday they were already leaking other stuff about a Republican donor
that got Cohen to transfer money to a lady and now they're on the TV going oh Hannity why are you talking to Cohen that means you're getting women paid off
and he's like I'm friends with Trump and I asked Cohen legal questions about Trump and getting Trump on the show he's not my client but that witch on it well it's political you should have told us you were talking to him
well I think he's had him on the show meanwhile you got Axelrod you got Stephanophilus you got all these Clinton operatives that host all the major shows from Meet the Press to Face the Nation to CNN to all of it
they host it and there's never a discussion when they're on there about conflicts of interest it's just amazing so they want to bring down everybody and they're making the move and it's simple
you financially support info wars because you directly are our sponsors the network has theirs local radio stations have theirs support those but you support info wars and you stand against everything they're doing it's that simple just a few percentage more of our listeners
by the product so the listeners that already buy them don't just buy them periodically but buy them in the auto ship we will defeat this attack but if they bring down info wars they can bring everybody down supermail vitality by the way 50% off we hardly ever do that
got a big new batch of that and it's 50% off with the real red bill they go together foundationally and then you've got X2 that's getting ready to sell out info wars store.com you can get a supermail vitality and alpha power together as well 50% off great to put those together
info wars store.com info wars life.com or triple 82533139 I'm done plugging let me just get back to the main question here we have a storm of bullies late night comedy is just weaponized disinformation
all the big ambulance chaser law firms democrat alumni that are making the country almost liveable already are swarming and just attacking conservatives libertarians everywhere
you got to fight these fall suits you got to get slapped back you got to get damages you got to fight them you cannot settle these things I didn't understand when I got these first lawsuits they went I go I'm not going to settle they go actually we'll just pay you
we're sorry but it's secret I can't say which ones obviously will pay you house X amount of money and I was like my lawyer's like this is a good deal I guess they realize it's a dumb suit and I go no no they just wanted me to have the news that I sued and I settled and then sure enough
they put that out to the other trial lawyers who are even getting direct orders they're just like look guys Alex Jones is a new target it's on exploding tires or ambulances are you know slipping on people's pools or restaurants by most restaurants close everybody just comes in and falls down
they're on the grocery store I got friends on a steakhouse it's like every week now someone just walks in and just openly on security cameras fake falls and goes all this and that's America that's what we've got that's the Democrats are their cancer
so if you know people that are these ambulance chasers don't talk to them at school you know the Democrats want to dump coffee on coffee on my head they want to get aggressive with me let's not act like criminals like them don't talk to them don't do business with them don't let your
children talk to them and when they step out of line so they are you and your family sworn enemies they think you're weak they think you're stupid they think you'll just roll over
it's time to go to Democrat churches and record the weird bizarre stuff they're teaching and put on the internet it's time to go to Democrat bars and record these guys
it's time if you're a good looking woman for your country to go in there and get that Democrat mayor to sit there and cheat on his wife and then burn him to hell
I might don't say get in bed with him just do what must be done they don't get conservatives and libertarians they take our restraint for weakness it's time for all of the internet sites and anonymous and everyone it is time to go after them
they've been drawn first blood politically so I'm going to ask you in the next hour what do we do legally and lawfully they want to get into down in the dirt
ah Batman the dog I was born in the dark excuse me but it's true so the fire goes up we're the real revolutionaries not you dirt bag establishment people everybody has to run project veritas operations on these folks
that it's time go after all Democrats all their operatives all their bullies all their people all of them you work for him you see him doing stuff report it not paying their taxes videotape it deliver it report it hit him at the state level
feds don't prosecute Democrats for income evasion hit him hit him hit him hit him hit him go into the big Democrat churches their their mainline Methodist churches and others that teach anti-gun and take up collection place for blowing on the gates
they go in comes by the church and hand out literature it's not a real church expose them they want to fight better believe they got one phase two now goes into high gear but what does Trump do what are the legislatures do break up the big trust break up Google break them all up
the last laws where the loser has to pay more of those laws more stronger slap statutes yes yes bankrupt the ambulance chasers yes they're forcing us to do it 877789 Alex 8777892539 there's already graduating more lawyers in a decade than they had in the previous hundred it's a cancer it's got to be cut out now we'll be back
they use their media to assassinate real news they use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler they use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again
and then they use their ex president to endorse the resistance all to make them march make them protest make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows burn cars shut down interstates and airports bully and terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness
and when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage the only way we stop this the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm freedom's safest place
you know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in Fuller's life it take hours Michael ZX plus it now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months
it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com
and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution.
Live from Austin Texas broadcasting in Uruguay it's Alex Jones
and it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say I don't know what's going to happen at the end of this but you want to fight you better believe you got one
from the front lines of the information war it's Alex Jones
well we're going to find out if America is made of cowards or real men and women because the globalists are going for the juggler
Trump's lawyer Russia gate didn't find anything except that Miller delivered uranium to the Russians illegally and Hillary took a hundred something million and Tony Podesta and all the rest of it
so just like that the media segways out of Russia into Michael Cohen and boy Sean Hannity talks to him on the phone
think about the criminality a week less than a week after Cohen gets raided
we know all about Republican donors and girlfriends and we know all about Sean Hannity talking to the lawyer
think about how criminal that Justice Department is think about how criminal that FBI is at the top but it's that cabal that Clinton judge
the Clinton FISA judge had to recuse themselves and then she orders the stories on info wars dot com
they're leaking right there ladies and gentlemen
that George Soros judge demands all Cohen records be placed in federal searchable database judge would so can be more easily leaked and nobody can get in trouble
where is Trump leaking information
we'll see that's the next logical step that's why they want Matt Rudd shut down Rush Limbaugh shut down Sean Hannity shut down
Tucker Carlson shut down Laura Ingraham shut down because none of those people are perfect and I'm not either but I'm pro America I try to tell the truth I try to get it right
I play by the rules I believe in this country and these people aren't they're mad dog criminals and that's why I'm not afraid of them and why I fight them so hard and no matter how hard they hit me
and believe me man they have they've done it you see them try to take my kids away and have the press involved in all that you've seen the attacks and the threats and next level stuff they've been doing
but I'm not going to get into here on air
but they are nasty
they are nasty nasty nasty nasty nasty nasty people
and they get up there at the Hillary marches funded by George Soros four women led by Muslim women and they go yes I'm a nasty woman
and it's all about hating men hating reproduction they're calling it a new video empathy to abort your baby
remember they had that video a few years ago the woman getting the abortion the actress she wanted to do that to get attention
she's like oh it's so wonderful it's so loving something I did for myself she's like oh I'm enjoying it oh yes it feels so good
other leftists want drain oh dump in their eyes and taxpayers to pay for it it's just deviant insanity
by giant hordes of people that nobody stands up to that nobody puts in their place
and the media is like God it's so beautiful how she's blind she's identified as blind when we dump the drain on her eyes
it's so sexy that we're showing it right now you're a radio listener on television
in fact turn it off I can't look at it
and all her friends go it's so beautiful we're glad she made the decision
we don't make any moral judgments except if you're a Christian and don't want to sexualize your kids then we do
we think it's normal to have the state blind people and then they pay for it
we think it's normal to have the state teach six-year-olds they're another sex and have their genitals cut off
we're the good people we're here to help you and I drink some glyphosate
so how do we strike back legally and lawfully how do we take the gloves off to the very edge of the law when we return
info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release
winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin D3
winter sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens
every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content
it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it
winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3
the research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world
read the facts at info wars life.com about winter sun vitamin D3
not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function
something the globalists are targeting
visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139
you are listening to an info wars.com frontline report
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
from deep in the heart of FEMA region 6
Austin Texas transmitting worldwide it's Alex Jones
you know we've discovered some shocking developments just in the last few hours
since we learned last night in Travis County
a law firm called the exploding tire law firm
this is next level ambulance chasing in my view
they filed two lawsuits for the families
of the victims of Sandy Hook
who are public figures who are anti-gun spokesperson
and now they're anti-free speech spokesperson who keep going out saying Alex Jones keeps saying our kids didn't die
he needs to retract it he needs to apologize
and then four years ago I'm saying I believe your children died
and I apologize for any pain you've gone through
and I tell Megan Kelly that it doesn't go in the show
because they're never going to drop it
but what happens in a lawsuit is those things come out
and we just discovered stuff and we know these are getting cut and pasted
we know the lawsuits are getting cut and pasted
we just laid three of the last lawsuits over each other
and they're the same lawsuits
and they even messed up
here's just an example more of this is coming up
document cam shot please
of course none of this will be on the fake news
you'll only see this here
Defendant Owen Schreuer is an individual residing in Travis County
and at all times to this suit Mr. Daniels has been a reporter for info wars
Mr. Schreuer can be served and then it goes on
so and then it's some address that's even a wrong address for a warehouse
now think about that
the last suit lists Kit Daniels
this is a new suit that Kit Daniels isn't in but they listed as Kit Daniels
and it's all full of that
there's like typos and wrong words and misspelling
you're like what the hell is this
and then it's not even the right jurisdictions
and the right filings and it goes on and on
and that's it the left is just hysterical
and then the big democrat money comes down
and these suits are guaranteed not to win
but to get them publicity
so I ask everybody
that's listening to me right now
let's show this document cam shot again
I'm asking everybody that's watching
and listening to me right now
to understand how crazy this is
and to not be intimidated they know the average person they call a country bumpkin
plough over country
they think you think oh a lawsuit
ooh that's scary
not in the world of frivolous lawsuits
they've got to pay
once they get caught
in a frivolous lawsuit
so they in the lawsuit suing Owen shroyer
once who's Owen once who's me
I get sued in both
they then say Kit Daniels is Owen shroyer
and that's just part of it I'm gonna stop right there
because they're cutting and pasting
the other lawsuits because this is formulaic
being sent out to these people
to do in my view
I mean out of all these 15 16 lawsuits
at least five of the law firms are run by former people that work for Hillary Clinton
and look what they're doing to Michael Cohen
look what they're doing to President Trump
our forebears got shot down in helicopters
and died on farm beaches and went down in submarines
and died at Lexington and Concord
so we'd have some semblance of freedom in this country
and the fact that we just get sued by Soros
and the mainstream media tries to have my kids taken away
and says I'm a bad dad and lies about stuff
and tries to influence the jury and the fact that they
you know have the IRS harassed churches and Christians and veterans groups
yeah it's bad
but it's not as bad as it's gonna be if we let these globalists
Soros, Hillary Clinton, all of them get full control
and that's why they're so bold is because they're scared
don't take their bold crazy action as strength it's weakness
George Soros judge behind
all Cohen records placed in federal searchable database
and then you wonder why in violation of federal law they did that
in an ongoing case
so it could be spread to the forewinds
with all the little operatives beavering into the database
and trying to cook something up
this is the big assault
no joke judge who forced Cohen to ID Hannity
performed Soros wedding
so how do we all legally and lawfully
TV stations radio stations
individuals
law firms
businessmen
women
veterans
patriots
libertarians
Christians
conservatives
common sense people
what do we do
we get very outspoken free speech wise
we financially support causes like the NRA
RIM4s that are fighting for our basic freedoms
we're bold around the left and don't let them intimidate us about our speech
it's time for conservatives to become litigious against leftist organizations and institutions
it's time for the local leftist newspaper to get something wrong about you to sue them
even if they don't win
get them
even if you don't it's time
it's time
that when you see corruption going on
by anybody affiliated with the Democrats
anybody that works with them
supports them or is a Democrat
they are a part of a Nazi cult
a Soviet cult
it's the same thing
they're an evil cancerous party that seeks total power over our children
our lives
our money
our religion
they want to open the borders to Islamists
they are a clear and present danger and they know they are
and they're all a bunch of dumb stupid camp followers
but they got that one tribal understanding
that it's their country
and their power
and they're taking over
and it's their time
and so I'm telling you
they want to bully us
and push us around all the rest of this crap
it's time not to just be all shucks
there's some crazy people down at UT
or crazy people down at Harvard
if you're an alumni of Georgetown
or any of these organizations that are anti-free speech
anti-American that are banning costume parties
because they might hurt somebody's feelings
that's a cult
when you can't have a costume party
or you can't have the word mother or father
pull your money out
don't send your children there
and it's already happened in Kansas
and Michigan
and Washington state
where you've seen 20, 30, 40% enrollment drops in one year
when they have these big SJW events
good, get out of there
don't go there
pull out of there
but how do we take the gloves off?
we're going to go to Jim
we're going to go to Jay
we're going to Paulette, Alene
Elaine, Daniel, David, Sam, Christine, Jesse, everybody
I'm taking a ton of calls today
we're going to get to a bunch of these video clips
I haven't played yet
there's so many
but this is just an insane time
let's see what Jim in California thinks about this
how do we stand up to this
what do we do to the Second American Revolution counter-offensive they've launched against us?
well, you got me?
yes sir
well, we've crossed into a spot where
somebody like you who has a little bit more
how should I say, upwardly mobile
can handle doing the losses
but for the rest of us
there is not a lot
I mean, I live paycheck to paycheck
there is not a lot I could do in that way
however, doesn't mean that there isn't something you can do
I know that I live in a very small town
up in the mountains
and there is a militia
they've already formed
they've practiced
and somebody who's got a lot of power of the voice that you do
you say the right thing
things could happen
or the president
I know that I work with law enforcement a lot
and at one point I was selling a gun that I didn't use anymore
and officers literally came to me and told me
you can't sell that
and I'm like, what do you mean I can't sell that?
and he goes, do you know where to buy ammo?
and if you don't, I'll get it for you
I'll tell you, the revolution is coming brother
you need to hang on to this
and these are the guys that rank and file
with guns and badges that are
well no, I agree, stay right there
I'm going to come back and tell you
Hillary knew this, Obama knew it
that's why they tried to do the strong cities
with the justice department to kill some cops, threaten the cops
have them go under UN control
that was official to get them on their side
before they make their move
you're absolutely right
but that's a critical part of this
I'll come back to you on the other side
Stay with us Jim
at QuantumHarvest.net
It's an O-brainer
a Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period
you need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride,
pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
and does it all at only 2 cents per gallon
get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration
Big Berkey
and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems
using code GCN
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com
that's 1-877-99 BERKEY
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place
and what they don't steal will be destroyed
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in
go to faketv.com
and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV
even when you're miles away
security is a mindset
and faketv should be part of your security solution
be vigilant but not fearful
faketv.com
Choose to take control of your chemistry with
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together
to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
at InfowarsLife.com
Infowars Life is launching its newest product
We're really really proud of it
It's a best source prebiotic fiber
and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known
to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture,
floral life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold
and the funguses and the gut
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products, you get them separately or together
and make really really big savings and get high quality products at the same time
and I'm doing this to introduce these products to you
Bodies sold out in a month
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with
It's sold out for another month and a half
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out
and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber
Get yours today in ForwardsLife.com
We are back live, I'm your host Alex Jones
Before I go back to Jim and then others
I want to just clarify something
He says for somebody upwardly mobile like yourself
you can deal with these lawsuits but for those of us that aren't
one of these lawsuits would ruin us
Actually, if it's a frivolous lawsuit it gets thrown out pretty easily
and then they've got to pay you back
The problem is they file these in leftist cities
where they'll let it go a little bit further than it should
So this is a big challenge to InfoWars
It's not like I'm Mr. Daddy Warbucks here
and I've got all this money laying around to fight these things
The listeners though, by a lot of the products, they support us
They understand we're under attack, they've been coming through
And it enraged the establishment when we've gotten
what, eight of their lawsuits thrown out now?
But I guess now they've got like
nine more going
But my lawyers have looked at it, they're even running out of the frivolous stuff
I mean, you've seen the weird EEOC complaints that are complete fantasy
That's a whole process and it's just all
everyone I've ever known or didn't know has been contacted
They've had it in a bunch of newspapers
like a guy named Doyle at Alamo Draftow says
Jones says he doesn't believe anything he says and hates his listeners
There's other newspapers called Doyle and oh, what's Alex like Doyle?
There's no Doyle, I didn't tell some guy at Alamo Draftow
some movie theater
Just randomly that I hate America
That's why they're pissed off, they've gone all over Sheffield, England
In Northern England where Paul Watson and Steve Watson are from
Steve didn't like being on air, he's just as smart as Paul
He's got a degree in international relations all nine yards
And they've knocked on the yearbook of everyone they went to high school with
and then started offering a little money
Like oh, Paul, Steve, they're great guys, come on, tell us they're bad
I mean, that's all this is
So can you imagine they have gone through everything and they can't find anything
And so that's what this is, this is the fight for America
This is the Revolutionary War, this is information warfare, they're attacking
But beyond info wars, I'm asking what do you do? What do we do?
And you're right, tyranny will either come to your door as a uniform or we'll fight tyranny
And so the globalists have been trying to get the police and military on their side
And I can tell you, the police and military are super awake at the grassroots level to what's going on
And that's really backfired on the globalist
And we've just all got to have a stiff upper lip, move forward, tell the truth, get the word out
But everybody keeps saying guns, guns, guns, we're going to have this big overthrow
Or if Trump called for it or if I called for it
The globalists are probably going to stage some more false flags to try to get violence going
We need to keep the information war going, get the economy turned back on
Use nonviolent stuff like they're doing, the courts against them, economic warfare, boycotts, what they're doing
You need to infiltrate Soros marches, you need to get into these leftist groups
You need to be Project Veritas listeners, don't count on us, do it yourself, put it on YouTube
Put it on Twitter, put it on your own channel, bigger channels will pick it up
You are the power, we've got to go operational against them, and believe me
We're doing everything we can here, but if you'll just go take action and realize the war is now
Because I found the second amendment becomes kind of a cop out, and I'm not saying you're doing this, but
Well, if somebody says the word, let's start shooting, no
We're winning informationally, they're striking back with a bunch of dirty tricks
Take what, and we'll try to get him on to there tomorrow
Sabo, this great street artist does, I said we should copy his work, create our own street art
Go out, show it, video it, put it up online, it all goes viral
You do it in the real world, then in the silicon dimension it goes viral
Everybody taking action as the resistance, we're the resistance
We, in modern parlance, coin that, use that, push that, do that
Now the democrats call themselves the resistance, they're the globalists, they're the big banks
They're Hollywood, they're the power structure, they're the FBI, they're the federal judges
The fight is now, but I can tell you the biggest thing you can do is run good folks for congress, support them
Run yourself for local office and financially support info wars and spread our articles and our videos
And don't care when the bots and people call your names on Facebook or Twitter or YouTube
Start your own websites, I'm talking about solutions here, what do you think?
I gotta shut up or I won't get to all the calls
Jay in California, finish up what you were saying, go ahead
You on to me?
Yes sir, I was just gonna have you finish up, go ahead
Well that is exactly what I was gonna say
I've been buying your stuff for a long time, thinking about that, got lots of stuff on auto-ship
And as a piece of that help, how do I help?
And I've seen some good people for office that I've known personally because they went to school with one guy
Who they just destroyed him because he's a Mormon, not that there's anything wrong with Mormons
And you're right, and that's what we can do
All I was getting at was there is a whole lot of temperature out there that's gone through the roof
And it's not just some guys in a militia wandering around or practicing in the forest
It's one of the largest law enforcement agencies in California where that's how they talk
Because they are done
And notice how you've got the lawless since the Democrats are gonna do it first
They're gonna push first, saying we're not gonna stop MS-13, we're going to just let them do whatever they want
We're not gonna let the border patrol be here, we're not gonna let the National Guard help Trump
When Mexico has a National Guard and a border and a military
And so absolutely, they've gone so far with their lawlessness that it's really showing everybody exactly what you're saying
You're saying you got friends that are in the state police there and that they're upset?
Well yeah, one of the things that was really hard was once a year, you have to do a whole test on ethics
And if you don't pass this test, you don't continue to work
And as you're doing your test on ethics, I'm listening to an If-A-Wars-Do story about the deputy, what do they call it?
Attorney General of the state of California arrested for being a pedophile
And I'm like, here I am and nothing, who I shouldn't say nothing, but very low down there on the totem pole
And they're worried about whether or not my wife received a gift from somebody
And I in turn did something to help out somebody that would have been considered an ethics
Well that's what criminals and leftists do, and whole left-hand path people do
They shoot a smoke screen out or a crooked toenail or microaggressions or somebody bought you a cup of coffee
That's evil, that's bad, but exactly, if they're a pedophile or they're stealing all this money, oh that's okay
They put a smoke screen out blaming everyone for what they've done, God bless you Jim, great call
When we come back, I'm going boom, boom, boom, I've got to get these calls
We got Jay coming up next, we got Paulette, we're going to get to everybody on the other side
I forget, we sell high quality herbal and mineral and vitamin supplements
We've got real red pill in that's amazing, takes about a week to kick in
We've got Alpha Power sold out for months now, back in, it's big discounted
We've got real red pill at 50% off, same thing for malvitality, that's a huge special
So m4store.com or triple 825-33139
And if you haven't tried these products folks, they're amazing
And when you fund us, it really makes Soros mad
And no brainer, a Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors
Pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y
If you or someone you care about, loves outdoor adventure
Then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift ideas
That's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for the archer, hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family
Now through January, use the promo code HOLIDAY to get free shipping in the US or Canada
And from all of us at Slingbow Industries, have a safe, joyous and peaceful holiday season
Now it's the other side of the equation
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut
Because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace
Yeast mold creates slime walls
And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there
It causes all sorts of serious issues
Well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it
And compounds known to destroy that slime wall
So wait, just start detoxifying your body until it's too late
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX Plus
Now from the InfoWars store
So you can upload it
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
Is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do
You can also swallow it
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more
Without you, we couldn't do it
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com
And remembering that it's not just you that's already awake
But it's other people that aren't awake
And it's so essential to spread the word
And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution
Let's go to Devin in Florida
Devin in Florida, you're on the air
Great, hey, thank you so much
Listen, I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it
Because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret swell, vitamin and infusion
I've got the body armor
You're the type of listener that makes it all possible
Which nutraceuticals do you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest
That's amazing
That's really incredible
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible
I haven't felt sweet
My morning was fantastic
And I love you guys, I love the InfoWarsStore
And I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence
Just buy it, you will love it
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com
It's a win-win at infowarslife.com
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance
Hollywood Babylon, baby
Alright, we're going back to your phone calls, I was just talking to some of the crew during the break
And if you could come up with stuff like this in fiction, you'd win Hollywood at Oscars for best screenplays
We're the good guys trying to restore the country
Trying to cut taxes, trying to get big mega corporations that don't pay taxes to pay taxes
We're trying to take care of veterans, take care of our sovereignty
Promote free market individualism
Fight radical Islam that oppresses women, gays, you name it
We're promoting academic freedom, we're promoting open free speech
We're promoting family, we're promoting just everything wholesome
And we've got the mainstream media misrepresenting what we say and what we do everywhere
And then filing suits to back up those frauds
So the media can then get on board with those frauds and then perpetuate the line to intimidate everybody else to roll over
But I gotta tell you, we're in good company here
Sean Hannity does a great job, he wasn't perfect years ago, but the right time in American history
When the country's coming back, he's going through a lot to tell the truth and had him back down
Laura Ingram, Tucker Carlson, Matt Drudge is chief amongst the patriots
Linking to when the Russians said that the rebels were gonna stage false flags a month ago
Linking to when they got caught staging false flags before
Nobody else with that type of media pull would dare do that
You do that, you put yourself in the globalist crosshairs
We got the secret Google documents six months ago
And what were they more afraid of than anything?
They said we want info wars delisted and we want Ron Paul delisted
We're paying you millions of dollars to go out there and downvote them as an outside company
Because they exposed that Syria was a false flag
And the next time there's a false flag, we're not gonna get the war we want if they're there exposing it
They just don't want us to go, oh look, the rebels bragged they did it two years ago
That's our crime is a memory, remember what Gruber said
I go back to this every day because what did Jonathan Gruber say five years ago?
On C-span, he said thank God the public has no attention span
We'll not remember we told him that Obamacare would be free when it triples their prices
And he started laughing and the other academics were smiling and laughing too
Those aren't liberals, those are predators folks
That is so predatory
And then these new losses they filed on me today
They say Kit Daniels is Owen Shroyer
Because it's a cut and paste from another lawsuit
They don't even file them right, the right courts, the right dates, none of it's even true
The way the statues work, they don't care
They just want to file so many thinking I'll settle them for nothing
To just keep saying Alex is sued, Alex is sued, Alex is fake news, Alex said nobody died at this
Alex did that, you saw them all say I said nobody died at Parkland, never said that
They still say it because they are preying on you, that is the mainstream media
And I know you as an audience know that, it's just, here's the deal
I don't want a violent revolution and I think we can fix this peacefully except
They're going to keep pushing
The New York Times, two weeks before Scalise got shot said
Here's a front page article on the Republican Freedom Caucus' security
Wow, they have as few as one armed guard went up to 18 of them were there at one time
If something happened to them
We'd get control of the agenda
And then a Democrat from Illinois gets in his car and drives there and tries to kill a bunch of them
And Democrats went well, he's not a bad guy, he's a hero, hashtag hunt Republicans
And then they had the police stand down in Charlottesville and have them march the alt-right people, Hillary's term
Which is mainly half the press, independent press covering some white supremacists
And just some other people that are sick of being told their badges are white
It was a mix of people, I don't agree with most of what they have to say
Marching them in to a group of three times more antifa with their baseball bats and their tear gas and their clubs
And then, oh you wonder why a lady gets killed
And then they sued me saying, Joan says that a State Department official killed the girl, never said that
My lawyers have looked at the tapes, no one said that, what they use as exhibits, I didn't say anything close to that
It's a total fraud, but it's so they can run the headline that I said the Democrats killed that girl
I said George Soros funded Antifa and the Democrat police stood down allowing it to happen
Which is just like Parkland again, a stand down, confirmed, another Prozac head allowed to do it
And another stand down
And just as night follows day, just like I said last week, I said you watch, there'll be suits over Sandy Hook soon
Because they have all these TV shows and movies and comedy shows and the opposition about it
And Alex Jones says it, but then they edit the tapes together and I go, I didn't say that
I don't think that happened, they won't show you that
And I said clearly that's the next suit, well the day after I said that it came in the mail
That we're gonna sue you, the lawyers are like, well there isn't really a retraction to make, you didn't say these things
But statutorily if you make the retraction, there's no big damages, but it's three months after the date of that
So statutorily they don't get the damages, so this doesn't make sense and I'm like, they will file suit within days
Well let's just talk to them and see, and I'm like listen, they'll file within days and they did
Because the statutes, the law, none of it even matters, it's like a temper tantrum is what they file
But here's the thing, there's some type of secret to it because all the suits are filed like a temper tantrum
Mispellings and stuff upside down and weird and not the right people and things we didn't say and filed in the wrong courts and all the rest of it
And my lawyers are like, don't say it's in the wrong court, let us get it thrown out first
It's just, it's madness, it's like crazed pirates or something have become lawyers
And so they just put out all this vitriol as if if they put out all these lies, somehow that will make them true
I am so bad, I always have loaded phones that don't go to enough of them, who should I go to?
Governor Jerry Brown sent a letter to DHS, that's important, Jay was about dial in on spiritual level towards Trump
Mark talked about prophecy, Patricia pushing elections and campaigns, Christina questions a comment about Trump
Jesse wants Trump to disclose more info, Ben Jai building up info wars, Sam in Mexico, go to Sam first, I didn't see what he was calling for Mexico
What's Trump going to do? Darina, citing constitution, I promise, but I can only give you each one minute, that's a lot of time I'll talk radio
I'll just shut up, you just make your point, I'll make mine, I'll go to the next person, and we've cleared out the guest so that I can take your calls
So I'm going to be a good boy, I'm going to take your calls, it's just, it's so incredible to have a criminal group of the Justice Department
Criminally raid his lawyer, it's a Soros judge, she puts it out in the federal database for everybody to have, they start leaking day one
Comey got caught leaking, lied to Congress, they're all committing giant crimes, I can't even keep track of it
And then Sessions is like, gee golly up there, I like a little thing, his wife that works for Hillary
You've got McCabe getting a half million from Hillary, it's all illegal, they send millions over to Fusion GPS and their wives that openly got hired just for that
To create a 17 page toilet paper document, here's the good thing, toilet paper sinks, and all you globalists are a bunch of trash
And Soros and the rest of you, you're freaking out right now, because you thought you had this country and you didn't
And no matter what happens to me, out of this fight comes our victory, us showing a good standing will precipitate the Alamo scenario
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep, millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
Wake up refreshed and take on the day
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com
Digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWarsLife
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from InfoWarsLife
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139
All the minerals and vitamins and amino acids are available
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more
Without you we couldn't do it
Thank you all for remembering InfoWarsLife.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake
So essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution
So, if you're a globalist and you've committed all these huge war crimes, killed millions of people, funded al-Qaeda, ISIS, been connected to all the pedophilia, all the incredible corruption
What are you going to do if you're those people?
What are you going to do if you know the world's turning against you in a huge unelected global corporate government you've shut up?
You attack independent media, you attack nationalist media, you misrepresent it, you drag it to the mud, you say, oh, he hurts the parents of the children in Florida
He says none of them died and are all crisis actors
Trying to tie it back to Sandy Hook and the public's speculation back then because they've seen the media caught lying over and over again
It's normal to ask questions
But now, Soros' favorite judge that married he and his wife, that works for the Clintons, grabs the president's lawyer's documents and puts them out on the internet for the FBI on a server
So they can all leak and they start leaking. What does the president do with that level of criminal activity and the imperial judiciary we have when it comes to Democrats?
They think America's going to break
I'm asking you how we strike back and I'm sorry I haven't gone to the calls. I'm a bad person
But we're going to him right now. Sam in Mexico, Sam in Mexico and then everybody else. Go ahead, Sam, you're on the air
Trump is going to turn Mexico around on a dime and he's going to do it by allowing a dark horse candidate into the presidential election
There is a candidate who's in United States custody. He was former governor right there across from Texas. His name's Thomas Yarrington, Toms
The deep state in America and Mexico flushed him in the last presidential election because the likelihood of him winning was so great and upsetting the entire Mexican deep state
So right now while we're putting troops on the border because there's hostility with Mexico, the Mexican people, they're looking for their own law and order candidate
And if that man is permitted to run, it'll turn around so fast, it'll turn around on a dime
Well you sound like you've got a lot of inside knowledge. Are you in the DEA or Border Patrol?
No, I preached in all Mexico and I uncovered a plot where the cartels were hiring witch doctors to curse Toms Yarrington 20 years ago
It's on the front page of three regional newspapers right across from me in Texas
So while he's under investigation and while the charges from the US DEA against Toms Yarrington have to do with collusion from the cartels
Really the opposite is true. I don't believe that he did any of those things
Well that's the type of thing Trump can do and he's struck back against Facebook, he's struck back against Amazon
But notice that they lost 30 something million and 40 something million, respectively they don't care, they just move forward
The left is in a crazed mode. Let me ask you this question
Why do you think these lawsuits against me get everybody's names wrong and things misspelled and filed wrong and all crazy?
I mean, why have they're doing this? Is it just for the publicity? What do you think they're doing?
It's a puppy mill. They're cranking them out. They're cutting and pasting and they're depending on corrupt jurisdictions to uphold their version of illegality
It's judicial activism at work. Those are the same forces that came against Toms Yarrington
He was a viable law and order candidate that was very close to entering the candidacy and winning just last time around
And this time, Trump doesn't even have to back him. All he has to do is give him his head, just lose the reins and pardon him if necessary
And Toms Yarrington will, the people of Mexico will vote for him
They're all sorry that they let the cartels ruin their country
Well that goes all the globalist operation. We know that absolutely
And Trump doesn't want to go forward with destabilization in third world countries
He's announced again he is going to pull out of, it's been announced that they are going to pull out of Syria again
Let's see if there's another staged event to try to make Trump look weak
But again, I got mad about the World War III scenario, but more and more Trump
I mean, I know Trump's a good guy. That's why they hate him
And that's why I stand with Trump. He's under total deep state of attack. God bless you, sir
Alright, Sam had some great points
Let's go ahead and take another call. Let's just go top to bottom here
Let's go ahead and talk to Jay in Canada. Thanks for holding Jay
Hi there
Thanks. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, sir
Okay
Yeah, I hope this doesn't sound kind of cliche or anything
But you know, you speak about the different dimensions and
You know, connection to God and things like that
And I really think
That just everybody having a knowledge and understanding of
The scriptures has a spiritual impact
And on a spiritual level rains down righteousness on the land
Talks about in the Bible how
When the people are separated from God when they stray
Then that's when these, you know, pieces of crap start to rule over you
Rule over the people
And let me stop you, Jay
I would always hear this in church growing up
I didn't realize how lucky I was to be going to real churches, they're very rare now
That it's true, the hedge is lowered, the gate is open
And that's why evil always wants to get rid of real Christianity and the Holy Spirit
And all that because they feel it, they see it, it's like a bright light they want to get rid of
And they know they can push Christianity out
Then like a broadcast, an evil spirit, a wavelength comes in
And society crumbles and falls to evil
Yeah, so we have, what I'm saying is, is that when we are all carrying this knowledge in our minds
When we have the, you know, God's instructions on our, you know, in our consciousness
We are walking around with that like slaying darkness, just being there, being conscious
And, you know, I think the assembled church and stuff is all good, can do good things
But I think it's secondary to just every individual having that understanding
And not letting, you know, somebody else always, you know, define everything for us
I think we have a better communion with God when we just read it
And then get that understanding directly from the Spirit
No, I agree with you, and that's exactly what the globalists fear
They fear Christians, they fear the Bible, they've got their devil pope in charge now
Who is just the Antichrist basically, I'm not saying he's the Antichrist, but he's the Antichrist spirit
And look, I'm not saying I'm a perfect person, but I love God and I love justice
And Christ said, you know, if you love me, the world will hate you and come after you
Well, you see it's coming after us because we're standing up against abortion
We're standing up against Satanism, we're standing up against the occult
We're standing up against child sacrifice and child molesters
And that's what this world is, these people are in to Aleister Crowley Black magic
Most of the top Democrats are getting busted in devil cults
How many Democrat mayors have been caught, like eight of them the last few months being pedophiles
California attorney generals, it's everywhere, and look, people said, oh, Trump's not going to stop them
Trump has green-lighted law enforcement to go after him
Not that Trump's in full control, but just that idea has given courage to low-level law enforcement and patriots to stand up against these networks
And that's why they're freaking out, so if I got to get sued by Soros and Hillary and the Democrats for standing up for children, so be it
I actually feel really good, I just get mad at myself that I'm not a good enough steward to fight hard enough and to be focused enough to beat them
But I just have to turn it over to God, tell the truth, get the news out, and God will provide
God bless you, I appreciate your call Jay, speaking of providing, the Lord works through the people
And they say there's no atheists and foxholes, ladies and gentlemen, we sell a lot of great products
I see it as a tithe to the truth of the First Amendment and to justice and to fertile fields of freedom
When you buy products at infowarstore.com
And maybe you like the local radio station that you're listening to, then support that local station
Because this broadcast is standing up more than the churches against the Satanist, against abortion, against the attacks on free speech
Against all these evil globalist operations, these illegal wars you name it
Support the local station, support this broadcast, and I make it easy, you can make donations at infowarstore.com
It's right there, but what most people like to do is just get great products like water filtration, air filtration, high quality storeable food
We've got a three month supply right now, discounted with a free Alexa pure gravity fed filter, 200 plus dollar value
We've got replacement filters for all the water filtration and air filtration systems we sell
Whatever's the top of the line and has the best price, we go, we get it, we sell it
Okay, so emergency radios, preparedness gear
The supplements obviously are our biggest seller, huge selection of Patriot t-shirts
But whatever you do, whether it's the high quality coffee or whether it's super mild vitality, 50% off right now
Or the X2 that's about to sell out, still 25% off, but that sales got to stop today
It's about to sell out
Infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple eight, two five three three one three nine, body's ultimate turmeric formula
Oh my gosh, strongest turmeric formula from our research out there
It's all there, and you saw them, try to sue the supplements, that got proven to be a fraud and thrown out
So you saw them go after the next thing, and the next thing, and the next thing, and the next thing, and the next thing, and the next thing
And we knew what their bigger guns were down the road, we expected all of this
But it still doesn't mean that without your support, we won't be here
I mean we made preparations, we dug in, we got ready, and now it's here
And you know they may bust a cap in my ass after this, whatever, it's up to you, it's up to God, it's up to all of us what's going to happen
We'll be back with more of your calls, third hour, I'm Alex Jones
The reason InfoWarslife has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference, I don't feel good
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me
Yeah I've actually just run out of my superfemale, I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again
So obviously the superfemale is amazing, I love it
The nascent iodine is essential, Survival Shield X2, if there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine, Survival Shield X2
5 star rating, it's a win-win, infowarslife.com
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones
Alright, David's up next, then Daniel, Patricia, Christine, Jesse, Benji, Darien, we're all taking your calls right now
On what do we do to fight back against the globalist? They have rated Trump's lawyer with a Soros judge that is the Clinton's favorite judge
Who married George Soros to his wife, his third wife, his current wife
And it just goes on from there and then she grabs the database illegally and then puts it out into the federal database so everybody can leak it
That's all in the news, and I'm gonna play a bunch of clips coming up, I said I would, the crew does a great job getting all these clips
Where they're going, oh Sean Hannity probably paid off women, why? He's been seen shaking hands with Michael Cohen and his name and phone number was in his Rolodex
That's the witch hunt now, not Russiagate, but now with Sean Hannity, getting women paid off?
I watched Sean Hannity because he's a patriot and he's smart
But the word is he's a really good family man and people I know that know him and that wouldn't have probably happened
But there's no evidence of that, but they've got his name out of the phone number and the feds have leaked it onto the news
That's the big witch hunt issue, that's the danger
This is so history book level over the top, insane asylum
And I've studied authoritarians, these authoritarians are never gonna get away with it
These authoritarians are doing this while they're not in power
But everyone's treating them like they're God because there's so many cowards
You know the answer is courage
People are so scared of the corrupt top of the FBI, they're so scared of the Justice Department, they're so scared of Soros
Only Trump is not scared
You know, now that I think about it, I think he worked it out with the Russians to bomb those sites
Knowing that's how he'd get the peace deal and be able to pull out down what he's announcing he's gonna do, that would give him the cover to do it
And it looks strong for China and I know Russia wants to fix it and denuclearize the peninsula as well
I know Russia wants that
And now this is very Machiavellia Trump and I don't even support it, but now I'm sure of what he did and it's working
So sometimes you fight fire with fire and I'm not in the president's position
And I just put him up on such a pedestal because he's gone through so much
And I know what he's gone through and I know he's trying to bring the country back and trying to really build up jobs for everybody
And trying to unify the nation and putting women and minorities in more positions, double what Obama ever did
It's almost too much virtue signaling, it ought to be whoever's the best at it, but he says they're great candidates, I'm sure a lot of them are
But it's like head-breaker generals, black women, top lawyers, women everywhere
That's fine if they're talented, I don't care what color they are, what sex they are
But I mean, Trump is really delivering on massive increases for black scholarships
That's not putting somebody at the end of the line who's white or Asian or Hispanic, it's just helping people, that's all fine
And man, they are just freaking out because we've had 50 years of one-sided trade to shut this country down
And this is all a big con game and I'm calling the globalist bluff and guess what, I know they've got a bluff
Now it doesn't mean that I don't, down the road, go down
But I always thought of it as like them walking up and shooting me in a parking lot or something, you know, that's
Or you know, like the parapets at the Alamo or whatever, but it's not like that, it's just death by lies and death by lawsuits
And death by assassinating your characters and then they kill you
They don't kill you when you're up there and the people love you
So now I realize that the fight's in my hands and then I've got to beat them and I've got to expose them
And I've got to fight harder and be better in the information war
Because it's mine to lose, that's the realization, it's yours to lose
You've got to want this victory over Hillary and Soros and all these trashy, evil, goblin-like creatures like Epstein and his pedophile aircraft and all of it
I mean, God help us, this evil elite
Alright, I promise, in 60 seconds, your calls, bam, bam, bam, down the line
How do we strike back? How does Trump strike back? Stay with us
We need to fund this operation, ladies and gentlemen, and I make it really easy
We went out and looked at what the top new tropics or brain pills are that are healthy for energy, stamina, mental clarity, you name it
And we created a stronger formula than some of the best-selling formulas out there, it's very simple
We went out and looked at what is the top, what is the best, we'll just put even more product in, we'll make it better
Leading competitors put $2 a product in it, sell it for $60, we put $10 in it, and sell it for $30
It's $19.95 right now, so you get an incredible top of the line new tropic for $19.95
Believe me, when we're selling it for $35 on average, we need that $15, $20 we make to fund this operation in the face of the global threat of it
But I'm doing this because we got a ton of it coming in in two weeks, I want to sell it all out before the big supply comes in
And I want people that haven't tried BrainForce to try it and find out why
It's got 6,000 plus 5-star reviews, it's amazing, infowarsstore.com, infowarslive.com, or AAA-2533-139
Kimba Wood, five fast facts you need to know about the judge that had the private lawyer of Trump rated and is now the FBI is leaking that Sean Hannity called Cohen
And then they say, oh that's proofy, some type of criminal, so now the witch hunt's gone from Russia to that
Amazing, these people will face judgment
Wood presided over the wedding of George Soros and was once called a lifelong Democrat
Wood was famously dubbed the love judge of a romantic scandal
And that's just special, she used to do whatever she wants
Wood once trained as a playboy bunny when she was named after an Australian town
Wood employed an illegal immigrant babysitter but sentenced people to jail for doing it herself
Bill Clinton once wanted Wood to be his attorney general and Hillary Clinton was involved in the process
There it is, they're the rulers of America, they're the federal judiciary
And in this latest suit, let me put the statement out for myself that I worked on with the lawyers here in Little Ball
I had it done last night and I said I want to put this out now, I said they're going to file suit on me in the next few days
I said let's talk to them first and then boom, it happens, we want to change the statement and say the suit's already there
You guys go get with Tim and see if it came in, they said an hour or two hours ago
We'll see what happens, see if folks can do that, we'll put it out on inforwars.com
MSNBCC and they'll call and they'll go, oh we want a statement
And they go, oh get in a car and drive down to our satellite uplink and then they tell me it's live and it's never live
They interview me for like an hour so they can edit it together, so they're pure liars
But they want me to go, you know, deal with all this, but look at the lawsuit
Owen's getting sued too, defendant Owen Schreuer is an individual presiding in Travis County
At all times relevant to the suit, Mr. Daniels has been a reporter for inforwars
And they go on to call it Mr. Daniels who they're suing when that's not even who they're suing
I mean that's thrown out right there, it's just crazy
But it doesn't matter, corporate, media, establishment, fake news
We'll just pick it up and just spew it out there to try to brand inforwars
That warns you about cell phone radiation and brain tumors, all confirmed
That warns you about human animal hybrids, all over the news now, 20 years after I told you, exactly as I told you
You know, that warns you about globalism, that warns you about the TPP, that they can't stand the fact that we're not to control
So they misrepresent to try to destroy us and to try to intimidate you that we're losers
No, we're winners, we're taking on the globalists that had hijacked this country
We're turning the Republic around
And we're drawing fire from the globalists of the enemy because we came to do this
I didn't come here to be upwardly mobile, I didn't come here to live next to other mummies
In bigger houses who all hate each other and are on power trips
I'm trying to change the world, I'm trying to beat collectivists, I'm trying to beat mega bank robber barons
I'm trying to beat evil people, I'm trying to beat the Satanist and devil worshipers that run this thing
I've infiltrated the secret meetings, I've blown their operations wide open over and over again
I have come to wage war politically, economically, spiritually, and culturally on them
Because what they're bringing is pure death, I got four children
I know how bad the world is, I had them to double down
I had them to put them in the game
Because I love them that much, I wanted them to exist and have free will
Just like God gave us all life
Not because he hates us, but because he loves us
I just hope people realize the level of people we're dealing with
David in Pennsylvania, thanks for holding her on the ear worldwide
How do we take the gloves off, what's the next level, what do we need to do, what does Trump need to do?
I never thought I'd hear myself say this, but I honestly think he needs to declare martial law
And bring the military in
We already have martial law by the left, they're just running around like, I'm starting to agree with you
They're just total criminals, they're attacking everybody viciously
They're calling for Congress to be killed, they're killing Republican mayors and city council
People shooting them in the head all the time, barely, they're killing cops
Dems CNN says, well cops deserve it, they're bad, they are trying to create lawlessness and a civil war
While they keep turning the heat up on all of us to shut up so they can do it
And at a certain point, we need the president to move, he needs, let me tell you something
Sessions is totally compromised, I think they got him in KKK robes or something
What do you think David?
Well it's fun you bring up the police, I'm calling from southwestern Pennsylvania, I'm a bitter clinger
And the day they had the March for Our Lives rally by Mr. Hogg
An off-duty police officer was in plain clothes with an AR-15
Which he's allowed to do in this state, we're an open carry state
And they threw a fit over it
So we're having a pro-gun rally on April 22
And Rick Saccone's going to be speaking there, the guy who lost the Conor Lamb
Why do you think the left's getting so hysterical?
I don't know, I think they're panicking
And it's like you say, I think they're just, you know, they're grabbing at anything they can
I gotta say it, I gotta say it, we're already in a civil emergency, the left's putting us into one
They admit that's their plan, CNN and MSNBC have said we want a civil emergency
Their own publications have said that, so are we just going to let them cause basically martial law on their own pretext?
Or, I mean it's time for this permanent judiciary and all these groups and these leftists and these Soros networks that are an outside criminal force
It's time for that to be smashed
I agree with you, 100%
Well, I backed the president, we are already in a civil war, we're already in clear and present danger
I just hate seeing the president buckle to him with a Syria thing, but now I get what he's doing, I trust the president
Let me tell you, I trust how much they hate him, that's all you need to know, God bless you David
And I don't say I want martial law and all this to save my bacon
I did all this to get in their face, I did all this to get nationalism going, I did this to get populism going
I've done what I've done so that somebody wasn't a coward and created a focal point like all the rest of us feel and think to try to have a future
I want to move against these criminal networks cause they're dug in, they're criminal, they're not stopping
And they intend to overthrow the republic and now that they know that we're awake bring in a hardcore tyranny
So we're now facing down the barrel of a gun and we've got to decide whether we're going to grab our ankles and bend over and let them have our children and everything else or whether we're going to fight
And listen, I can't do anything but fight
But we're facing real bona fide tyranny, there's no way to get out of this, but just getting in their face and getting strong
So people better start spending a lot of money and that means hosting your own local radio show and promoting, putting billboards up or promoting mine or running for con
Whatever you do, take action and get aggressive or it's going to go over the cliff
And then everybody that's been talking about how, you know, they want to, you know, take action physically, well you're going to get what you want
But I'll tell you this, if you haven't been politically active and financially active and spiritually active before some type of physical conflagration, you're not going to do it when the rubber meets the road
So that's what I'm saying
Elaine in New York, thanks for holding, I really appreciate you calling Elaine, go ahead, you're on the air
Hi Alex, it's nice to talk to you, teacher Elena here in New York, I think you're doing a fantastic job today
I just got my tax refund, I'm going to enforce war's life store, I'm going to get the spray gargle, Nace and Iodine and more purchases
Thank you
And today I started with immune blend coffee, well before that I had the liver cleanse and the red pill and brain force at the end of the day here in school
Well let me ask you that question, I mean how did the products work for you?
Fantastic
We go out and find out what has the best reviews, is the best in industry and then we try to make it better and cut the price
So without you funding us, you know, you are what funds us and so God bless you for your support, I couldn't do it without you
And God bless you Alex and God we trust and you are fantastic, you're wonderful and I'm so glad you're there and I just can't say enough
Well Elaine, what do you think we ought to do, I mean you're supporting the broadcast, that's a big thing, what do you think we should do to really just take more action, speak out,
Hall C-Span, get a bigger buzz going, what do we do?
Yeah, I have my handcuffs, I'm going to be getting a hotel room down on the lower east side tomorrow, I'm going to see who shows up at Barnes & Noble
Holy holy oh yeah, go out to all the Comey events, stay there
Attention business owners and independent contractors, this is a money saving message from tax mediation services, if your business owes $20,000 or more in taxes, we can help you today, right now
Listen, dealing with the IRS is no picnic, it's an intimidating and extremely stressful process and you don't want to go it alone
So please know every law, every tax break and every possible opportunity to help you resolve and reduce your tax debt and if you owe more than $20,000 you may be at the top of their hit list
So don't take your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own, the IRS can seize your bank accounts, your home and even shut down your business
We are tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818 and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business, that's 1-800-261-9818
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there, loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel, I recommend heart and body extract to everyone
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
After being sold out for months, our best-selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock at m4store.com, the first shipment of super blue sold out in one week, I thought it would be a six month supply for listeners
And since then people are beating down our doors wanting to be able to resupply their super blue
Research across the board is clear, in fact it's certified
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks
That's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body
Super blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula, it's loaded with good halogen iodide, so the bad halogen fluoride
Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used its biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath
Just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodide, nano silver and more, learn more about info wars life super blue toothpaste
At infowarslife.com and support the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and limited free society
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself
Ladies and gentlemen it's non GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com
Everybody needs to try alpha power today
You're listening to the Alex Jones show
Another time
His lab was green and green
We continue the Christmas act
If you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
Alive from Austin, Texas broadcasting worldwide
It's Alex Jones
All right Alayne in New York or Alayne in New York you were saying that you're going to go to the Barnes & Noble's book signing I'm guessing it's Comey
I'm glad we did this show, I'm glad we're talking about how do we take the gloves off
I remember during the campaign Hillary was trying to say that Donald Trump was a rapist because he said if a woman climbed up on top of him wanting to have sex with him
He could grab her however he wanted and he thought it was incredible how these women came on to him
Kind of like Elvis Presley when girls were throwing their panties at him in the 1950s and going crazy
That's not right but they misrepresent that because they're all about victim psychology
And so we said oh really, Bill Clinton settled three rape cases
Bill Clinton has been on Epstein's Lolita Express pedophile plane
He flies to these Sheik's houses in the Middle East that have harems of kidnapped women and children
They're hanging out with Anthony Weiner in all his cases and his underage sexting and all the other weirdness and the weird Aleister Crowley stuff
All of this so he said go out to their live events and say Bill Clinton's a rapist and it hurt them bad
It became a big national news story and then we said go out and say CNN is fake news, they hate that
So go talk to Comey, say shame on you perjure yourself to Congress
Shame on you, try to make money off lies, shame on you, your whole family voting for Hillary Clinton
Or ask him why did your wife vote for Hillary Clinton, why did you cover up for the Clinton crimes
Have a little camera on you, have your cell phone
And everywhere Comey goes and everywhere any of these people go, if you see a Democrat, if you see a globalist
They want to make us uncomfortable, you got your free speech, you go over and let them know what you think of them
And you videotape it
And these Democrat Congress persons, what if you see the Democrats on CNN and MSNBC saying
They say wherever the Republicans are, wherever the Freedom Caucus are, they want to kill your women
They want to starve your children, they want to throw old people out on the street, the Republicans do
We want to make everything like Venezuela a wonderland, we're the Democrats
When you see them, you go get in their face and say how dare you say that conservatism and free market
Starves people when it's what makes people rich
How dare you push those lies, you get back in their face, look I have a clip here
Top trim, dim, women dying because dims losing elections
Only Obamacare can save women, says Keith Ellison, I'll play that clip in a moment
Think about that rhetoric, so they say there are these Republicans out there and they're killing women
That's trying to get the constituents to go kill people
Because that's the Democrat talking point, you're killing women, you're killing minorities
Donald Trump said Nazi, Donald Trump said white supremacist
They want to get everybody
And every time I see a Democrat reporter they go aren't you thinking your rhetoric is going to cause violence?
I'm not the one calling for violence, you're the people pushing violence
Because you're losers and you know you're losers and you're a bunch of parasites and the money's getting cut off
And you don't know what to do and you wreck every city you run
Elena go ahead, where are you going to Barnes and Nobles, who are you going to confront?
I'm going to Nekomi, if nobody else is there, I guess I'm going to have to go in there and just shake his hand
And say he needs to do right by American families and he hasn't
And he should put his tail between his legs and be ashamed
Well I would videotape it so it causes a chain reaction and so somebody should go with you
You should videotape it, they're going to try to keep patriots out but they can't
What Barnes and Nobles are you going to be at?
I have to look up the exact address, it's lower east side, Barnes and Nobles
They just search it on the internet and it'll tell you the exact street
Exactly, and folks see how this lady's doing the job that all of us should be doing
So we salute you Elena, and everybody should pull up a Comey's speaking tour
Comey's book signing tour, pull up the dates if you guys can
And everyone should be outside to educate the people going in
And everybody should be going inside as well
In fact, I know that we've got Millie Weaver on that beat as well
Elena, God bless you and thank you so much
What an amazing lady, everybody should join her, lower east side tomorrow
But the Barnes and Noble
That's how we take this country back, it's getting back in their faces
And taking over their media events and dominating it
And you see CNN live outside, everybody should have a bullhorn
And run up and get live on air and say, you're fake news, you hate America
Ben G in Virginia, thanks for holding, you're awesome, you're on the air, go ahead
Hey Alex, it's nice to be talking about solutions instead of problems
Yes sir
I think what info wars should do is get bigger, they need to get too big to fail
And I think you do that by talking to Gary Heaven and Max Kaiser and McAfee
And Chuck and Mike Norris and figure out a business plan for a publicly traded company
That can sell shares and issue bonds
Well, absolutely, I've already been approached with that by some millionaires and people
I decided not to do it at this point and I think, in fact I know that's what the globalists got word of
They thought I was already about to do that and that's why they've gone crazy
Well, you need to do it just so you have a separate entity that can get litigious
That can actually go after the money, that's their lifeblood is the fiat currency they print for themselves
And you need to go after it, you need to have a company that can attack their income stream
And see it or freeze it or take control of it or at least make them think about messing with you
But you gotta get bigger economically, selling products is fine
But there's other ways to make money and you can still remain independent I think
If you just sell shares that are non-voting shares but I'm no expert
But somebody like Max Kaiser certainly would be in on it
Well, here's the deal, you dot an I wrong, you cross a T wrong, they come in on you
The Democrats can all do whatever they want, swendle, steal billions, have their foundations
If I did that, it'd have to be done absolutely kosher
And then there's a lot of fees and things involved and then they usually want you to start as a private offering
Then they want it to be a public offering
But yeah, no, info wars, big fish, eat little fish
And you're absolutely right, I intend to go on
We're stronger than ever audience-wise, we're expanding, that's why they're doing this
But the number of lawsuits they're ratcheting up is meant to shut us down
People just buy a ton of product, if everybody listening that already buys product
Doubles the amount of product they're buying, we'll have no problem
Even if they file 100 lawsuits, there's that much money it brings in
It just costs a lot to do all this
But I agree, good solution
I'm gonna re-up looking at the private or public offering
Raise $100 million in a whole new entity, start a whole new operation, a whole new system
Separate from info wars, and that's a great point
Anything else, Benji?
No, I just, I'd like to see you do it, work hard at it
We're trying, man, we're fighting hard here, but God bless ya
That's 800-34, no tax on my website, danpilla.com
Right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com
It's less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses
They began studying this effect in published trials
And decades later, we now have the fruit of this research
A fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase
Which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets
That's what it absolutely needs. In the history of infowarslife
We've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2
Supermail Vitality and so many others
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
Designed for maximized effects
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products
And this part is most important
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived
Or of the highest quality lab standard
That means it's clean, that means it's pure
And rest-secured, you're fighting the tip of the spear in the info war
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion
All to make them march, make them protest
Make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia
Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs
And stop the madness
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage
The only way we stop this
The only way we save our country and our freedom
Is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth
I'm the National Rifle Association of America
And I'm Freedom's Safest Place
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center
And the heart of the Resistance
Well, you can see it in the media, the build-up
Alex Jones says nobody died at Sandy Hook
And for, I looked it up, it's almost four years
I've been saying I believe people died there
And I played devil's advocate and looked at both sides
They could edit those tapes together
But when you've got the history of our government staging events
Other governments, the babies and the incubators
To get us into the Iraq war that didn't happen
All the other stage chemical attacks, all the lies we've caught them in
It's normal to be able to question and ask those questions
But then the media turned it all into what other people were doing
Online as researchers into what I had said and done
And even a few months into it, I was like, don't speak for me
Some of these folks that think everybody's a crisis actor
They think I'm Beau Bridges
And they think I'm Bill Hicks
And so Paul Watson never believed any of that from the beginning
And you want to know why I backed off even looking at that pretty early
In that particular case was Paul Watson got hopping mad about it
Not so much at me, but the people involved in it
And then they were always threatening him
And then I would try to have some of the groups on that were a little bit more sane
And then we'd have a debate and both sides would get mad at me
Because I was just letting them debate
And then they would say I was a crisis actor
But see, the media never tells you the complex reality
The control corporate media just lies and says
Jones has had a lawsuit filed on him for saying that the parents are liars and that none of this happened and it's all fake
And I'm like, no, I'm talking about CNN famous for faking locations
Looking like they're doing interviews on the side it looks like green screen
Doesn't mean it didn't happen
Or Nancy Grace is sitting there with cars going in circles around her at a cul-de-sac
And clearly she's not interviewing somebody via satellite
I don't know why they did that
CNN is famous for that
Anderson Cooper will have an explosion go off behind him
It turns out it's not real
Or you'll hear him adding the background noise and the background noise stops
CNN saves a lot of money by faking locations
It doesn't mean that if Anderson Cooper says he's in Parkland
And he's really in New York with a video background of Parkland
That Parkland didn't happen
But they changed the debate around
Obviously David Hogg's an anti-gun PR person before it even happened
Doesn't mean he's a crisis actor, never said it
But they think because I didn't, I say I didn't say it
That's look, he's weak
Let's pile on Jones about this
They'll probably sue me saying that I say nobody died at Parkland
Or something like that
I mean, I just, I fully expect it because it's what they do
They want everybody scared to not question big events when they happen
Because what were we really doing?
Interviewing students and playing local newscasts that they didn't want you to see
People saying there was a stand down
There were multiple shooters
They had a drill the week before, two months before
And the police were all lined up, Coward County not responding
Well, weeks later everybody knew that was actually true
It leaked out, they didn't contain it
But they didn't want to go on the news and say
Jones claims the Sheriff's Department stood down, that evil SOB
They went, Jones says nobody died
And David Hogg's a crisis actor and 24 years old, never said it
By the way, Comedy Central's so corrupt and evil
They'll probably take that little clip right there and edit it together
They've already done that some
But it doesn't matter, they're the liars
Just because they do that and people cite stuff they say in lawsuits
It doesn't fly
You know, I really got a call from the hostage rescue team
Channy had a bunch of Islamic paraphernalia
Had been in the room days before and was a gun runner
We said that the day after Las Vegas, still they say unsolved
They didn't issue a police report on Sandy Hook until last year
I've got that in my stack
Now I don't know what that means, but it's weird
No emergency helicopters dispatched, weird
The school torn down, weird
The school closed the year before but reopened
And totally dirty and filthy and mold everywhere, weird
The whole thing's weird
And that's not defamation
But I can't sit there and look at some of those parents
Talking about their children
Some of them I've seen on the news, you haven't seen all of them on the news
And say, well, that's fake, you didn't lose a child
I can't do that
And I have it
I said I can see how people who don't believe anything the media says anymore
Don't know what to believe
And this gets back to the nerve gas footage
The rebels got caught three times launching chemical attacks
And then now this new one
The Russians say it's fake and didn't even happen
And then we get this footage we're showing for TV viewers, radio listeners
It just shows the doctor, it looks like he's about 18
And the children are convulsing and they're not convulsing
And then he winks at the camera and he falls back and the little kid starts laughing
And then the other kids stop convulsing and then kind of reshift themselves
And it looks like the fakeest thing I ever saw
Now is that saying no chemical attacks happened? I don't know
Yeah, there it is, New York Times
ISIS used chemical arms at least 52 times in Syria, Iraq
Report says
And then that's a UN report, print that for me
The UN was in all the time, days after
And said this is actually nerve gas out of Saudi Arabia
Using their mortars and here's the jihadi shooting video of it
We had already reported that
And I hate sighting with the UN
I don't like the UN, but they reported on what we already saw
So this broadcast is about journalistic freedom and truth
They'll never show you what we really said
Unless there's two second clips clipped together
We could probably show that promo piece for the opposition last week
Where they go, oh, you said nobody died at Parkland
And I went, no, and then they cut clips of me talking about Sandy Hook
But that's out of context, too
Deception after deception
And we're talking editing it once they go to me every two seconds
Yeah, go ahead and fade it up
Sir, are you the real Alex Jones?
Well, you know
Or are you a crisis actor?
Calling a victim a crisis actor would be a monster
Yeah, I didn't call those guys a crisis actor
On Sandy Hook and all the people that look and act like actors
You've never implied that the victims of any mass shooting were fakes
No
You look at the Aurora shooting, that was totally stitched
You guys have been saying that about Parkland
And they may actually even have some experience in acting
You're an actor pretending to be a journalist, pretending to be a comedian
So they confuse your audience like you're a news show
I don't think a person putting on a big performance show
And claiming to be a journalist would get much in the following
Oh yeah, really
Now I want to be clear, we didn't call this Alex Jones crisis
Let's stop right there, that's Chuck E. Cheese the rat
Now again, why is this so important? You all saw the real videos
You heard me say on what I said on those tapes and what I said live
When Owen talked about Parkland, in that very video he was saying
We're not saying they're crisis actors
We're saying they're political operatives with talking points
Who happen to be in the drama class, who have some skills as acting
We ought to take that little one-minute promo from Comedy Central, Comedy Central
And show what I really said and then show what they played as a clip
Show what Owen said and then what they played
Because Owen and myself in those clips say we don't believe they're crisis actors
We believe it happened
But I can see how some people don't believe it and say they are
Or Owen, oh look, we're not saying they're crisis actors
He says in that very video from that live show
That YouTube took down, that's one of the videos they took down
Saying we said they were actors when we said we do not believe they were crisis actors
But again, this, you're watching, you're paying attention
You know the truth, you know what's going on so they have a problem
By the way, Super Mill Vitality is back in stock, it's 50% off, it's amazing
Cold pressed, we're only 50% off very rarely
You can get it with a real Red Bull 50% off or Alpha Power as well
That is a huge deal, it's Alpha Power sold out last time, we sold at that price
They're all in the same family but they all work together
So see which one you like or in synergy
The ultimate game changer, 50% off, Super Mill Vitality in FullWarsLive.com
We'll be right back with more of your calls, thanks for holding
Patricia, Christine, stay with us, Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide, go ahead
Oh Alex, you can rent any day of the week, thank you sir for doing what you do
And being a patriot and doing your best to save America
And encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well
And as a long time InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks
For the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex, my girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too
Thank you
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks
For our big normal toothpaste fans, the Super Blue is awesome
And thank you so much Alex for the InfoWarsLive products, they are quality
I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy
Absolutely
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women
Understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order
And be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back
I'm so excited, the new product at InfoWarsLive.com
In a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim
Filled to the absolute top, the real red pill
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it
But boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae
And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglenone to it
Which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands
It is amazing
Red pill, now available at InfoWarsLive.com
And your purchase, fuzz the operation
Deep Earth iodine crystals, this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfoWarsLive.com
All the natural hormones in your body, that it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids
So you can upload it, and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste
Is super blue silver immune gargle, that's a spray you do, you can also swallow it
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more
Without you, we couldn't do it, so thank you all for remembering InfoWarsLive.com
And remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake
And it's so essential to spread the word, and again thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution
We're back live, I'm Alex Jones, your host Paul Joseph Watson, ready to go coming up the next hour
I mentioned this earlier, it's on InfoWars.com, I thought I'd play the clips since I mentioned it
Top dim, women dying because dims are losing elections
And then he talks about infant mortality being up, in all the studies it's from the vaccines they give them now at birth
That they didn't use to give them
And all sorts of other issues, this country is falling apart, the life expectancy in general has gone down
But oh, he thinks you'll get good health care in Venezuela or Cuba or North Korea
So here it is, this is Democrats winning the midterm elections in 2018 as a matter of life and death
According to Representative Keith Ellison, Minnesota
I thought Obamacare was going to be free and fixed at all
Oh, no, Ezekiel Emanuel on Fox News said, one of the architects, it's about bankrupting existing health care and going to single-payer
Oh, then it will be like the National Health Service that works so well
The average leftist is so sheltered and stupid they go, remember in college and after they go
I want free health care like England, it's the best in the world
You don't get health care done, but these controllers know they've just got such idiot constituents
Here's a clue
They need me to put it more in, they need to put my back into it more than before
Because their lives depend upon it, did you know that in Missouri and in Texas and maybe other places
Maternal mortality has risen
Women are dying because we are losing elections
We don't have the right to lose a damn election
We have to win
We have to win
You got to steal more elections, you're right
Just search engine infant mortality up in the US for 10 years running
But notice he made it about outside of our blue states, everyone's dying
Yay, we're superheroes
It's actually much higher in many of the blue areas, everybody knows
Where's the high crime rates, sir?
Oh, in the blue areas
Unbelievable
Here's Sean Hannity's comments on his connection to Michael Cohen, the Trump's main lawyer that goes on Fox News
And the media is saying, oh, he must be involved in corruption, oh, he's involved with politicos
Conflict of interest when most of the hosts on TV are Democrat operatives that used to be the head of the White House
Or the head communications person
Dana Pereno can't be on the five because she used to be the spokesperson
I mean, what is that? It's next level
I saw a scene in this morning, it was like the head of this agency says he was a geologist
But he isn't a geologist
And you read like three pages of quotes of where he's a geologist
And just from the headline you're thinking he must be a liar
And then later it says he's got straight A's as a geologist and played football on a scholarship
And then it was a decorated Navy SEAL
But he never practices a geologist, so he didn't won, but he is won
It's just every level is distort, distort, distort, distort, distort, distort
And you've got such a lawlessness from the Democrats, I can't even believe it
So here's a clip from Hannity on that
So I've known Michael a long, long time
And let me be very clear to the media
Michael never represented me in any matter
I never retained him in the traditional sense as retaining a lawyer
I never received an invoice from Michael
I never paid legal fees to Michael
But I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective
And I assume that those conversations were attorney-client, confidential
But the other thing I will need to point out to the media that is apparently going insane over this
Not one of any issue I ever dealt with Michael Cohn on ever, ever involved a matter between me and any third party
Now he said that hours before this happened, and then I'm going to your calls
I can't play all these, but disgusting cobert, Sean Hannity forgot to mention something
So they're just licking their lips over this at Stormy Daniels and maybe Trump and him double-teamed her
I mean, this is the level of hysteria to cover up Epstein and Wiener and the Aleister Crowley crap
I am honored to have the whole Aleister Crowley crowd coming after me
That's who they are, they use a lot of people and they've got victims, they manipulate
I mean, the people running it, the people at the top are the most, I mean, look
They're ringleaders, the Nazi collaborator, George Soros
They want me to chef about it, Nazi collaborator, Nazi collaborator
I think I'm going to write a book about you, the Nazi collaborator, and put a documentary out, Nazi collaborator, George Soros
So you guys just don't get it, I know you've been bullying people in death camps and everywhere else over in Eastern Europe
This is Texas, brother, so I'll rather die than roll over to your big, ugly, demonic, wart-covered, demonic butt
And your stupid little demon sons, even cursed with
So whatever, just know this, it's all metaphysical
Whatever you do, you get back many, many fold because you're evil
You're losers, last season's losers
Well, that's Whitman Price and his odd, they were last season's winners
Oh no, they were last season's losers
That's how it all ends up working in this universe
The Running Man
Who loves you and who do you love?
Ready to go for broke on the game grid
But what happens when you don't run the game grid anymore in the information war?
You become the losers you've always been
Losers trying to be winners
Let's go ahead, do I have time to play? I want to go to these calls
We have to do it
Let's play the failed comedian become fake newsman
Who then exposes fake news but that most liberals get their news from
Let's go to Fantasyland, here it is
Now it was revealed that Cohen had one more undisclosed client secret
But today in court, the judge ordered him to reveal the name
It was, nope, you know, CNN, you earned this
Michael Cohen has just disclosed in court that the client who had requested to remain unnamed
was Sean Hannity of Fox News
By the way, that's all just fake news, they just made that up
They are leaking all this stuff that they stole
This is a guy that doesn't talk about jet aircraft with the Clintons and little kids
and Harvey Weinstein
How did I get this? I don't know
John Stewart, after the show, I'm going to come over and we're just going to spoon
John Stewart's brother that's the president of the New York Stock Exchange
That'll stop right there
So that's it, it's gone from Russiagate to now Stormy Daniels to now Sean Hannity
and Mueller did it all
and then all the Clintons' crimes and the judge being Soros' judge and marrying Soros
it's all okay
because these bullies think they've got this country
Everybody better start shopping with the globalists, supporting their big corporate things, everything
It's time everywhere you can to not support the system and to realize it's an accursed, filthy thing
The NFL's dying, Hollywood's dying, good
and this is their last desk grip trying to drag us down to the pit with them
Whatever you do, support our local AM and FM stations, support their sponsors and please support Info Wars
We've got a lot of big products like Super Mail, one of our best sellers
50% off, very close to cost
You can get it with the real Red Pill or Alpha Power that's also a best seller
for 50% off as well and get free shipping on those items
We're going to have to end the special soon by one three month high quality food supply emergency backup
and get a free Alexa Pure Pro with that for free as well
InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLives.com or AAA-253-3139
Okay, I'm going right to Patricia and right to Christine and then others here and then Paul Watson's coming up
I'll get to Darian, Daniel, Patricia, Christian and Jesse before I end
But Paul's hotter than a firecracker in a pistol, all rolled up in one, white-hot
So we're going to obviously not want to take up too much of his time in the fourth hour than the war room
But oh, Troyer, hey, he gets his wings, got sued by this whole globalist connected group
So there you go, ladies and gentlemen, got sued, I mean, the law firms, the Democrats
You know, the parents, they're just sadly being manipulated into all this
I'm very, very sad, they're victims and all this, we'll be right back
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
That patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
And to be healthy and as focused as you can be
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world
Now it's time to change our bodies with a Z-Shield and in FullWarsLife.com
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States
With the latest cutting-edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolife-advanced restoration
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolife everyday maintenance
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price
When you purchase it, then FullWarsLife.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide
You're listening to the antidote for fake news, it's Alex Jones
Sometimes I feel I've got to run away, I've got to get away
Alright, let's go to Danielle in California, then Patricia, thank you both for holding your awesome, go ahead
Hey, how's it going, Alex?
You know, I'm doing my job fighting the globalists and I've got great listeners supporting us, so I'm doing really well, I've got a great wife, great children, so thanks for asking
Great, I've got to say your Alexa Pure turns that hard Californian water into good drinking water, so thank you
Thank you
I was just calling in regards to exposing deception by ABC
They ran a piece on the National Guard being sent to the border and in the letter from the governor to Secretary Nielsen and Secretary Mattis
If you don't mind, I'd like to quote this, so I get it right
It's quote, but let's be crystal clear on the scope of this mission, this will not be a mission to build a wall
It will not be a mission to round up women and children or detain people escaping violence and seeking a better life and the California National Guard will not be enforcing federal immigration laws
Now are you saying that's from the governor, because I know the governor said we're not going to help you, are you saying that's from Trump?
That is from the governor of California
Oh yeah, I knew, yeah, Brown is saying our National Guard is not going to help you, it's basically like Oregon did
And again, they're bringing the violence with them, what about us being able to have a border to screen out the violence?
That's what a border is, like a cell wall or a cell membrane, no, no, no, we can't have that, yes, it's just outrageous
Yeah, we can't, the National Guard, what are they going to be doing down there then?
Well the Democrats, we have a right with their little blue state and blue city pustules to be walled off from all their crime and out of control crap
They're right to not be experienced living under Democrat demons
Yep, you've got it, you're on the right track, thanks again for your product, that was really all I wanted to let you guys know about
Because ABC is making it seem like the National Guard is going down there and everything is hunky dory
You know, it's funny, that's all the disinfo, thank you Daniel, sorry I was saying Daniel, my eyes are a little bit blurred today, the lights are so bright
Paul Watson, let's go to Paul Watson for this segment and then I'm going to come right back, take a few calls and hand the baton to Paul
Paul, tell us what you have coming up today my friend
Well Alex is going to talk about Macron, President Macron of France's recent comments where he basically said
The future of Europe is unprecedented mass migration, this is Europe's destiny and he cites an expert who basically said that the number of Africans coming over to Europe over the next 30 years will grow from 9 million which is what it is now they claim to up to 200 million within the next 30 years
So Alex if you import Africa into Europe what do you get? Africa and all its attendant problems but nobody's talking about that, they're saying how great it will be basically the complete displacement of Europeans
Let's talk about that, we're talking about turning Europe into North Africa which is what the jihad always wanted, why does no one visit North Africa because it is a hellhole where slavery still goes on, slavery the Africans basically caught the Europeans
Yeah the barbaric slave trade which is now resurrected in the form of street slave markets in Libya after we liberated it through NATO and the overthrow of Gaddafi
But they're saying the most optimistic scenario is something called your Africa which would see mass migration create a welcoming multicultural Europe because it's really working out so far great isn't it
Which would fully embrace being a mixed race land of immigration and interbreeding, those are the words they're actually using, we've got like gang warfare on the streets between these two migrant groups in Europe
Paris is a complete mess, crime's going up in Paris, it's going up in London and they want this times 10 at least over the next 30 years, what could possibly go wrong Alex
I hadn't seen this report, you tell me it's up on infowords.com now
Headline is Macron Europe entering age of unprecedented mass migration shares destiny with Africa, absolutely
Well that's powerful but I changed the headline that Macron announces the importation of 200 million Africans and turning Europe into North Africa
That is basically, yeah that's what he's saying
It is so insane
Well they don't want us covering that's why they're doing all these lawsuits against us just so we cover what bull those are
You know what we're going to cover it straight ahead with Paul, Joseph Watson but first Darian, Patricia, Christina and Jesse and then I'm done
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber
A mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system
Info wars life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139
He aligns himself with the truth. You're listening to Alex Jones
Ladies and gentlemen, there isn't a lot of civilization in Africa. The globalists have deindustrialized Libya. They took it over on purpose and it was stabilizing things. Same thing in South Africa.
The South African government is saying that they're going to kill the whites and take their property and they're trying to keep them from leaving to Australia and their vice president.
People are saying to Australia you shouldn't take the fleeing whites that have been there for five, six, seven generations, the Dutch immigrants.
And now there's an article up on infowars.com. Macron, Europe faces unprecedented mass migration, shares destiny with Africa, says 200 million need to come in within 30 years.
15 million. And you look at Paris, it is just feces everywhere, tent city, squatting, machete, murders, death, just Eastern Europe is just in pure horror.
They're trying to block their borders and they're being called racist.
Soros has these zodiac boats every day shooting across with thousands of people. The Italian Navy said they'll stop it.
The EU said we're going to launch a Navy to stop you. This is the plan to totally collapse the West so the technocracy can break off.
There's no way to assimilate 200 million Africans from third world countries into a welfare state.
80% of the recent migrants are on welfare, even two or three generationally. They're taught on the left to hate the countries they're coming into and not to assimilate.
Most of the North Africans are Muslims. My God, Paul, this is the most nightmare scenario.
We knew they were planning to collapse the third world, flood the first world with these populations.
But this is an absolute death sentence to Europe, to free market, to any first world status that could lift the whole planet up.
This is a diabolical plan. We know Peter Sutherland, who just died a few months ago, ending United Nations, Paul.
Macron cites, as his example of how it's going to unfold, the French-American journalist and professor Stephen Smith.
In his book, Smith admits that this transfer, as what he calls it, a population transfer, will be triggered,
quote, largely as a result of Western aid money financing would-be migrants' journeys from Africa.
So he brazenly admits this isn't a natural transfer. This is going to be directly financed by the Soros groups, by the globalist bodies.
It's being financed. We thought the number was 10 million. It's 15 million just the last few years.
This is a total weaponized attack. We'll have a town of 200 Germans, and they import 1,000 North Africans.
And they begin just raping and slaughtering, and the police say it's their culture. This is total insanity.
And they arrest the people who complain about it on Facebook, which is how it ties into another article,
which is openinforwars.com, English language exclusive, where there's this EU Parliament member,
who is also a member of Sweden's Radical Feminist Party. She's an EU Parliament member.
She wants political parties that criticize immigration to be banned completely.
So she starts off by talking about far-right parties, and then she says, oh, by the way, the Sweden Democrats, right,
which is the second or third biggest party, depending on which poll you look at, got a good chance of winning the Swedish election.
You've got the most votes out of anyone from young people aged 18 to 35. She wants them banned.
You've got people being arrested, prosecuted, fined in Sweden simply for quoting statistics from the government about violent crime and rape.
Their reported rapes have increased 34% in the last 10 years.
Over in London, we've got a huge problem with acid attacks, which we never had before.
And it's not all migrants. Obviously, some of it's just gang warfare, but a lot of it is. And these are the problems that we're importing.
That's what Macron wants, times 10. And as well as all this going on at the same time, as well as you, obviously, Alex,
trending on Twitter today, Morrissey was trending because he came out and said,
London is second only to Bangladesh in acid attacks. He pointed the finger at mass immigration and said,
nobody in the authorities wants to deal with it because it would be politically incorrect to do so.
And he's getting absolutely slaughtered, of course, because he's an actual liberal who supports tolerant liberal policies, freedom of speech.
So he's getting slaughtered by all the regressive leftists who have chosen to side with the barbaric 7th century belief system because they're not real liberals.
So he's pointing the problems out. We've imported this. Now Macron's coming out and saying 200 million Africans within 30 years.
Meanwhile, he's also saying there's going to be a civil war in Europe over the growing East West divide, which is what you mentioned before,
because these Eastern European countries, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, to some extent.
Exactly. They're going to bring in 200 million people. Eastern Europe already invented by Muslims over 100 times, has a fighting spirit.
They're going to say no. And then the EU is saying militarily they're going to come in and make Eastern Europe submit to the North African invasion.
What's ironic, Alex, is that Macron says there's going to be a civil war because these authoritarian democracies are upsetting that the Apple Corps.
The only authoritarian body in this equation is the EU, which punishes and blocks countries who try to leave its tentacles.
They did it before with these treaties, these referendums that they completely ignored when they lost the election on several occasions, France, Ireland, Portugal.
Sure. So what is the left thinking? Because I want you to take over and I promise to go to these calls. They have gone completely insane.
I mean, they literally just hate the West in prosperity. They exploit all these third world countries and then want to use it as a weapon to bring in all these dependent people to be their cultural army to enforce control over us.
Yeah. And even in this equation with the French philosopher Professor, they admit that it's completely unaffordable.
How on earth are you going to afford 200 million people coming into the continent when, as you said, you look at the figures, Sweden, Germany is 85% plus of the migrant population are on welfare.
The majority of them don't get jobs. In fact, there was a statistic out of the Netherlands. I think there's 90% of migrants did not get a job within two and a half years.
So how are you going to afford this? It's completely unaffordable. They admit this would see the end of social welfare programs.
So is the left really prepared to sacrifice their cherished welfare programs for the benefit, for the cultural diversity of inviting in or importing in with Western aid money, 200 million Africans?
And what are the consequences of that going to be? We're going to turn into Africa.
You can't import Africa and remain a European country with its own protected culture.
Well, I mean, especially when they're going to be brainwashed by leftist day one. Stay there, Paul. You're taking over.
Now, I promised to go to these callers, but I cannot take over for Paul. He's too on fire. Every person that held Darien, Patricia, Christina and Jesse get their numbers.
I'm calling them back tomorrow from the line and they all get $50, $50 in whatever purchase they want.
I'm going to have the warehouse column and they're going to get $50 at infowarstore.com, whatever they want for holding the last hour.
I said I'd go to you, but the time just got away and I tend to not even look at infowarstore.com while I'm on air.
I should look at it all the time. I just get, you know, overwhelmed with hundreds of stories already have in front of me.
And then Paul just drops this bombshell and they brought this into me and I was reading it there in the break.
EU Parliament member calls for banning political parties that criticize immigration.
They already arrest you if you do. Then it links to their own party saying that's an exclusive in English.
And then another one, Macron. Europe faces unprecedented mass migration, shares destiny with Africa.
That's not even strong enough headline because when you read what he says, he says 15 million migrants already.
Now 20 million within 30 years, according to his experts, he says it'll bankrupt everything, but it's good and that they'll fight a war with Eastern Europe because they won't submit.
I mean, now we get why they're attacking Eastern Europe and Russia, even though Eastern Europe doesn't like Russia.
We are probably all going to have to flee because here's the deal. The leftists are going to train all these minorities that whites need to be killed.
But when you go watch the live videos of the training at the universities, it's all weird white people leading it.
It's weird white racists who can look at the demographics and the Christian whites open everything up and are trying to do this.
They use our own strength against us, turn all these people into racists, bring them in, bankrupt everything.
They've got tax-free, global foundations, breakaway civilization. It's the total takedown plan.
These people are mad, crazed, demon lunatics.
And I'm just mad that I got diverted off in all the lawsuits and the harassment of Trump in the first three, four hours of the show.
But we did cover a lot of key solutions and stuff.
And I got to at least 15 calls. That's more than usual. I love you all.
Paul is coming up. I'll have more live feeds today. The war room, they're trying to take us down for a reason.
We stand for justice, and we stand for sanity, and we stand against the globalists and their insanity.
Don't forget, we got Super Bowl Vitality 50% off.
You get it with free shipping when you get it with the real red pill or out of power that just got back in.
Those are 50% off as well.
You get a free Alexa Pure when you get three month food supply from the great folks at my Patreon, all at infowarstore.com.
You get great products and fund the First Amendment without you or nothing.
I salute you and thank you for your support.
Healthcare reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor,
or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
More now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
FullyCookedBacon.com
This is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today at infowarslife.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globals and live in a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
And now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
We're live in the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show coming up at the bottom of the hour.
Basically the left has now floated this whole notion and this goes to the heart of how invasively vicious and personal they get with everything because they can't fight us on the battlefield of ideas so they have to intervene and model with people's private lives.
There was a vice.com article basically saying that conservatives can't get dates.
They're trying to terrify young people into not becoming conservatives by suggesting that doing so will leave them lonely and desperate for life.
Very, very underhanded tactic.
We're going to talk to Ashton Whitty about that at the bottom of the hour.
But for now let's get into this.
Bright Bar headline, Macron Europe entering age of unprecedented mass migration shares destiny with Africa.
Now in this article, the quotes by the French President Macron, he cites this French American journalist and Professor Stephen Smith, who admitted that 150 to 200 million Africans will be allowed to be transferred into Europe over the next 30 years with the aid of Western money.
Financing.
So they're openly admitting the Soros groups, the globalist groups are going to do this.
It's not going to be even passed off as some kind of natural migration.
It's going to be directly funded from the top.
We currently have around 9 million Africans in Europe.
They took about 200 million.
You import 200 million Africans into European countries.
What do you get?
Africa and all the attendant problems that Africa has.
I mean, let's just be honest about it.
Can we have an honest debate about this?
If you actually want to import Africa, then defend it on its merits.
Okay.
Be upfront about it.
Stop lying about it.
Macron's being alarmingly honest here.
They're talking about 200 million.
Listen, Sweden.
Within our lifetime, Sweden, Swedes, ethnic Swedes will be a minority in their own country within our lifetimes.
I'm not talking about the major cities.
I'm talking about the entire country of Sweden.
Swedes will be an ethnic minority, okay?
At that point, or way before that point, Sweden is no longer Sweden.
It becomes something else called Swedish stand, mainly.
You can't import vast hundreds of millions of people from other countries
and not have it change the fundamental nature of a country for better or worse.
Okay.
So let's debate that on its merits.
Let's have an honest debate.
They admit it's going to be through Western aid money financing.
So they admit it's going to be from the top.
And they say that this scenario would see the end of welfare states in Europe
because we could not afford it.
Already 85% plus of immigrants, of migrants in these countries, Germany, Sweden,
they're on welfare.
They're not working, which is why it was always so ridiculous when I ever heard Angela Merkel say that Europe needed to import migrants
because white people were dying off.
They're not having kids.
That's true.
And that's completely their fault, by the way.
They need to take ownership of that.
But then she always used to say, well, that's why we need to import tens of millions of migrants, you know,
to fund the pension system, to fund the welfare system by working and paying taxes.
They don't work.
Look at the figures.
85% plus on welfare.
There was a stat today out of the Netherlands.
90% of newly arrived migrants after two and a half years have not had a job.
OK, they're not working.
They're not paying taxes.
The majority of them, the vast majority of them, they want to come over and they have skills.
They want to start businesses.
They want to contribute.
Great.
I'm all for that.
Skilled immigration, business owners.
It's funny, you know, because Sweden tends to actually kick out the business owners.
There was a case where, I think it was a Syrian migrant, came in, started a business, was doing really well, hiring people.
Because of one little technicality on his immigration application, they want to deport him.
Meanwhile, if you were fighting for ISIS in Syria and Iraq, come on in.
Here's a red carpet.
Here's a council house.
Here's therapy.
Here's welfare.
Here's a job, if you're going to turn up at the job.
That's the situation in Europe.
It's absolutely insane.
200 million Africans, that's going to change things a little bit.
Let's be honest about it.
Meanwhile, basically, by the way, he's calling it your Africa.
The most optimistic scenario that Macron's talking about from his citation, which is this Duke University professor,
is the most optimistic scenario is something called your Africa, which would see mass migration create a welcoming multicultural Europe.
Because it's working out great so far, isn't it?
Acid attacks, gang warfare on the streets, stabbings, machete attacks, terrorist attacks, sharia law, female genital mutilation.
It's so diverse.
It's so diverse.
It's so multicultural.
It's enriched us greatly, which would fully embrace being a mixed race land of immigration and interbreeding,
which is basically biological capitulation.
And those are the terms that they talk about it in.
Meanwhile, Macron warns of European civil war over growing East-West divide.
So he's talking about the Eastern countries who have resisted this mass migration,
which is why the Soros groups trying to obliterate them,
which is why there was such a big tussle over the Hungarian election recently.
He's talking about those countries.
Who, by the way, if you look at polls, they ask people in Western and Eastern Europe,
are you positive?
Are you optimistic for the future of your children?
In Eastern Europe, all those countries say yes overwhelmingly.
Western Europe, they all say no.
They're less optimistic about their own children's future than they were about their generation.
I wonder why?
You look across Europe, by the way, the majority of Europeans want to ban Islamic immigration altogether.
That sounds like some kind of far-right fringe idea.
Polls have been conducted repeatedly.
The majority of Europeans want to ban it.
And they're going to slowly, you would hope, vote in parties that at least can get a handle of control on immigration,
because if they don't, as Douglas Murray wrote in his book, The Strange Death of Europe,
Europe will die as we know it.
So Macron says that European Union risks being torn apart by a civil war
between its liberal and authoritarian democracies,
because of course Hungary, Czech Republic, Austria, Poland are rejecting this EU quota of migrants.
He has the goal to call Hungary, which just had an election completely fair and above board,
an authoritarian democracy.
He's calling Hungary authoritarian.
He's calling the EU liberal, the EU that blocks and punishes countries
who try to extricate themselves legally through a democratic referendum from their tentacles.
Oh, but Hungary is the authoritarian country.
Give me a break.
This is a body unelected that ignores national referendums.
People vote in all these European countries against the Lisbon Treaty.
They just ignore the vote.
That's the very essence of authoritarianism.
And he's got the goal to point to other countries and call them authoritarian when they elect leaders
who care about the interests of their own population.
They call them nationalists.
They're not nationalists.
They're just populists, old school populists.
That's true liberal democracy.
Authoritarianism is the EU.
It's the very essence of authoritarianism.
They're the problem, which is why they're going to collapse if we get our way.
God only hopes over the next 10, 20, 30 years.
So while he's calling the 200 million Africans to be paid for imported into Europe,
he's saying in the same breath that it's Hungary that has the problem.
What on earth are you talking about?
They closed the borders.
They didn't have a sprawling migrant camp in Calais.
They don't have mass molestation on the street.
They don't have terrorist attacks every other week.
They have peaceful, prosperous existences.
You're pointing the finger at them and saying, they're the problem.
No, you're the problem, Macron.
You and everything your globalist masters represent, you are the real problem.
We'll be back live on the Alex Jones Show, breaking news at infowars.com.
I'll go away.
Feel the thrill, only at slingbow.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infostore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
You cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Let's go to Devin and Florida.
Devin and Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product, and I got to say they're amazing.
Everyone who's on the fence, buy it, because I've got caveman, superman of vitality,
secret swell, vitamin mineral fusion.
I've got the body armor. Wow, thank you.
You're the type of lesser that makes it all possible.
Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest.
That's amazing. That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning, and I swear to you, I felt incredible.
Like, I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic, and I love the guys.
I love the infowars through.
And I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there
who's on the fence, just buy it.
We'll love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
It's the win-win, infowarslife.com.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion
and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates,
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
We are live on the show.
And we're going to delve into an issue now, which I've covered on several occasions in the past.
And it is the fact that the left, the nasty pieces of work, aren't they?
They always try to make everything personal.
They can't just have an argument on the battleground of ideas, on the battlefield of ideas.
They have to interfere in people's families.
They have to interfere in people's private relationships because they're interfering busybodies.
They're nasty, self-loathing, very hateful people.
And they can't just debate politics without making it personal.
And on that subject, I'll welcome back our guest, who is Ashton Whitty.
She is at Ashton Birdie on Twitter.
Ashton, welcome back.
Thank you for having me.
Now, I want to talk about this vice article, which you covered in a video a couple of days ago,
if you could flash this up.
Headline is, conservatives are whining because no one wants to date them.
This came out in vice.
I think it was back in the beginning of March.
Let's read a couple of sentences out of this.
There's a handful of conservatives in DC told the magazine they've been having a real tough go of it since the election.
They've just been having a hard time getting laid.
According to one unnamed Trump administration official, it's especially hard to land a date if you're affiliated with the White House.
Sad.
It continues, the reporter for a white right-wing media outlet told the Washingtonian,
he recently went out on a date that crashed and burned once the woman noticed some conservative books on his shelf.
The horror.
Even though the guy told her he didn't vote for Trump, he got down groveled on his knees,
and considers himself a moderate conservative, she ended things there.
So it's not a long article, but it goes on in that vein.
First of all, I mean, that's a lucky escape that guy.
He avoided certain misery.
So what is the problem there?
Second of all, Ashton, you know, for women, let's just look at women.
If you're reasonably attractive, you will never be short of offers from men.
Basic biology overrides politics.
That's just a fact.
And for men, which is why I say this article is complete BS in my experience,
I'm seeing the opposite.
Like being a conservative or, you know, just not being an intellectual coward,
which is what most leftists are, you know, it's transgressive, it's daring, it's attractive.
So, I mean, is vice correct?
From my perspective, this is complete BS.
You know, are confident, good-looking men with strident beliefs and purpose in their lives really going to have problems finding a date?
I wouldn't say so. I would say it's more the fact that a lot of women nowadays are very picky about what they want, not to mention.
I don't think women even really want to date or stay in a long-lasting relationship.
They seem to just be more focused on the careers.
And a lot of these feminist women don't really care about traditional family values
instead either want to focus on their career or be in relationship as CNN has stated with cuckolding.
So, the idea that any of these women actually want a relationship in the first place is just surprising.
Well, yeah, we'll get to the cuckolding in a bit.
I'll save the best for last.
You know, isn't this more about, this is what I introduced this with at the top of the show,
isn't this more about the left trying to frighten young people into not becoming conservatives
by telling them, by putting the fear of God into them, that they'll be desperate, lonely and unloved if they do.
It seems like a very underhanded tactic to panic young people into not becoming conservatives
for fear that they'll be alone. Do you see that as part of this agenda?
Well, absolutely. I think when people have the fear that they're going to be alone,
they're going to put themselves in a desperate state of mind.
They're going to throw themselves at any person that says hi to them or do anything that's willing.
I think a lot of women who are on the left, they don't respect relationship values or moral values.
The very reason that they push themselves into open relationships or, you know, man after man
and just focus on their career, they don't want family values because they're afraid they're going to get hurt
or someone's going to push them away.
And then they become conservative and then one's going to love them.
And so I think that's the entire mindset of the left where they just push people to believe
they're always going to be alone no matter what, so you might as well be a freak about it.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's very underhanded, which I mean, from my own experience, it's very bizarre
because most of the messages I get are from very young people, both men and women who are conservatives.
And it's, you know, it's this burgeoning movement which is in the colleges, which is in the schools.
You might not see it on the surface, but I get tons of messages from young people who say,
I watch your videos, you turn me on to this. This is like the cool, edgy, rebellious thing to be in school now.
Obviously, it's going to be dominated by music and whatever other cultural trends are going on,
that it's not all going to be political. But for some people who are political who message me,
they're saying, no, it's actually conservatism is kind of the new counterculture.
It is the rebellious, edgy thing to do because it's so taboo.
So I mean, that's not going to play too badly in terms of attracting other people.
If you're the cool, rebellious kid in school by adopting these kind of edgy beliefs, is it?
That's not going to play too badly with the ladies, our adventure.
Well, it's really interesting because the majority of women who were doing the Women's March, for example,
they were either lesbian or divorced.
And so it's no, you know, it's obvious that a lot of women now today, you know,
the idea of getting married and settling down and having children is just absolutely ridiculous.
So it's no question that these women, they don't really think about those kind of things
because I mean, look at them, the majority of them, they don't shower, they don't shave,
they have blue hair and, you know, they're all divorced.
So of course they're going to be angry at the world, angry with men and of course angry with family values
because they don't have any.
Well, and just angry at the fact that they're very ugly people both inside and out.
I mean, we're talking about them frightening young people into not becoming conservatives.
You know, we probably, and I've done this on occasion,
should be pointing the finger at the state of protest as an antifa riots and black lives matter events
because as he said, tend to be, I'm talking about activists.
Like when I make this point and I'm going to get onto it with the science in a second,
they always come back at me these blue check marks and say,
oh, but what about this liberal icon? Look how attractive she is.
It's like, no, she's a celebrity. I'm talking about politicians.
I'm talking about activists. You look at most of them and we featured them on the show numerous times.
It's exactly as he said, the stereotype is true.
Mainly with these feminist protests, the older women are divorced.
The younger women have got blue hair. They're completely out of shape.
Like there's no excuse of being out of shape when you're in your mid 20s. Sorry.
There's no excuse. That's a lifestyle. That's a series of bad lifestyle choices.
And those people tend to be attracted to this victimhood ideology politics,
which allows them to wallow in their own laziness and worthlessness.
So we should be, you know, getting young girls and saying point into that and saying,
don't turn into that, whatever you do. And in fact, I made a video about this called
sexy hot conservatives pointing to the fact that there was one example where it was the antifa girl.
I think it was the girl who got punched and we don't advocate that obviously.
But they had pictures of her before she joined Antifa.
You know, long blonde hair, very natural, very attractive.
After joining Antifa, she's got the nose piercing.
She's got the dreadlocks, as he said, looks like she hasn't had a shower in two years.
You know, it has an effect and that ties into the science, which is what that video was about,
which I want to get onto. I'll probably get onto that in the next segment here
because we got about a minute and a half left.
But I just want to wrap the vice article up with this.
At the end of the vice article, which says conservatives can't get dates, they admit,
quote, we hear that the dating site for Trump supporters is really struggling to attract new members.
So if a dating site specifically aimed at Trump supporters is struggling to attract new members,
doesn't that suggest that Trump supporters are either happily married or having no problem finding dates,
therefore debunking the entire premise of this stupid vice article, Ashton?
Absolutely. I mean, on average, they even say that Trump supporters or conservatives in general
are more likely going to appreciate family values, which usually ties to the fact that more so
we're going to be married or in relationships and be happy with that,
because we don't need to have cut-holding.
Well, yeah, we'll get onto CNN promoting cut-holdery again.
The point I made with that was people were surprised about it. Why was anyone surprised?
That's like their core audience. Of course, they're going to promote it.
Also, in the next segment, I'm going to get onto the different standards by which we view attractiveness
and looks in women, of course. We're told all day not to look shame women, not to fat shame women.
Apart from, of course, if it's a conservative women, and then you can say the most vile thing imaginable about them,
we'll get to that and more after the break we are talking to Ashton Whitty.
This is the Alex Jones Show Live, breaking news at Infowars.com. We'll be back.
You won't hear me.
This is Alex Jones Show Live, breaking news at Infowars.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products we have in Infowars Live, it'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
The reason Infowars Live has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this. My family takes this.
And then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at InfowarsLife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale.
I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the superfemale is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2.
If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest, it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five-star rating. It's a win-win InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late. Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus now from the Infowars store.
It's the Alex Jones Show and now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
We're live. This is the final segment of The Fourth Hour and we are still joined by Ashton Whitty going to check out her YouTube channel.
She did a video on this about vice saying conservatives can't get dates. Quite the opposite in my experience.
I made a video called Sexy Hot Conservatives, one of the best headlines ever, where I went through the science behind this.
Cambridge University Press reported conservatives are more physically attractive.
This is a quote, attractive individuals are more likely to identify with the Republican Party and are more likely to be conservatives.
There was a Daily Beast article based on a UCLA study, hardly a far right outfit, which said GOP women are prettier.
Even the arch feminist herself, Lindy West, admitted in an article that she wrote that conservative women are prettier.
So if you look at the science, it tends to be that more attractive women and men are attracted to conservative politics.
And of course they come back and say, oh, you but look at this liberal celebrity. She's so hot.
Yeah, that doesn't disprove the general science in these studies, which include hundreds and hundreds of people.
I'm talking about activists. I'm talking about journalists.
I'm talking about the kind of people who were exposed as perverts during this whole hashtag me to scenario.
People like Sam Chris, people like Glenn Thrush.
It often was the case that the most ardent virtue signaling male feminists were the most creepy, creepy predatory perverts in almost every case.
And again, it's because, you know, they're ugly.
I mean, I see this connection all the time leftist, particularly the most vicious ones who jumped to that to getting personal as quickly as possible.
They always have like problems with depression, problems with self-loathing.
So in those cases, you know, they can't attract women in the normal way.
So they have to be creeps. They have to be perverts.
And the science shows that conservatives are indeed hotter.
But I mean, Ashton, you know, the question is, do leftists, as they get older, manifest all that viciousness, all that self-loathing by becoming as ugly on the outside as they are on the inside.
Do they actually begin to wear all that hatred on their faces? Do you think?
Oh, absolutely. Where do you think cat ladies come from?
Honestly, I mean, if you look at all the women who are at the Women's March, they were, you know, not in shape.
They're all divorces and they're all in their mid-40s.
And these are the same people who are offended by beach bodies and women like Pamela Anderson, Bawatch.
They can't stand the idea of pretty women taking over.
And I think they're indoctrinating a lot of the college students, females, of course, to believe in this idea.
You know, if you look at a lot of sorority girls at UC Berkeley, for example, they all look like they come from nice families.
They are all very pretty. And then something happens to them over time where they stop shaving their legs.
They wear yoga pants every single day and they start wearing Birkenstocks.
And it's almost like this feminist ideology is pushing them to not take care of themselves.
Yeah, you see, you see the before and after photos of some of these women and the transformation is quite stunning.
But again, you know, they say, oh, Ashton, that's just your internalised misogyny. That's my bigotry.
How dare we judge women on their appearance?
Oh, and by the way, Tommy Lawrence had plastic surgery, you know, Angkult has emaciated.
It's OK to be completely vile about women and how they look and the size they are so long as they're conservative.
Quite the double standard there, Ashton, isn't it?
Well, what's interesting to me is that a lot of women who are conservative and they do take care of themselves, you know, whether it be Botox or taking a simple shower,
we're actually happier with our lives because taking care of your bodies and actually, you know, basic hygiene tends to tie back to happiness.
You know, you're not going to be depressed if you smell good. You're not going to be depressed if you're wearing nice clothes.
Happy people just don't look like trolls. Just doesn't happen.
Now, I want to get into this. I know you've been chomping at the bit to talk about it.
In Four Wars headline, CNN promotes cuckoldry as positive for modern relationships.
This came out back in January. Of course, CNN appealing to the interests of its core audience.
It reads, CNN has hit a new low by posting a feature article that promotes cuckoldry as a positive fetish for modern relationships.
And they quote these experts, including one that said, cuckolding tends to be a positive fantasy and behavior.
They also quote a Dan Savage who is like a gay rights leftist activist who said, the rewards can be amazing.
I was on to say neither of these assertions are backed up by any evidence or challenged by the writer of the piece, Ian Kerner,
who is a licensed psychotherapist.
So there was no actual survey or anything that backed this up, that it was a positive thing for relationships to let your wife sleep with someone else.
They just said it was, and we took their word at face value.
But we had another article, though, which completely contradicted this, and this is out of Breitbart.
It says, far left voters, more likely to share their wives, right-wingers, more sexually dominant claim study.
So basically, they asked people in France, and again, this sampling was 4,000 people, unlike the three people quoted by CNN.
And basically, they found out that left-wingers are more likely to have orgies to share their wives, and we're trying to dance around this because it's a family show.
Right-wingers, this is a quote, are more likely to enjoy, quote, kinky sex.
So they're more likely to engage in taboos, but it was the left-wingers who were more likely to engage in cuckoldry.
So Ashton, you know, not to get too graphic here, it's a family show.
Why do you think leftists are more likely to be into cuckoldry?
Is there something within their psychological makeup which makes them more attracted to that kind of deviancy?
Well, as a psychotherapist, I think that she would know basic psychology and that sharing multiple men for one woman is not going to help a woman psychologically.
It's actually going to damage her even more, which may even tie to the very fact that feminists are angry themselves.
I mean, there's a study show show that women who have more sexual partners at a time, they tend to be angry with their lives.
They tend to have worse relationships.
I think this ties to a lot of what these feminists, you know, are.
They're angry, they're sad at their own lives. And so I think back to what you said earlier that they are afraid to be alone.
They sleep around and say it's beneficial to the relationship.
And all it really does is destroy the very family and traditional values that they should be upholding.
Incredible.
There you see the study out of the Breitbart.com article.
We'll be sure to revisit this topic.
It's a source of common interest for me.
Just before we go, though, tell people how they can find you on Twitter and how they can subscribe to your YouTube channel,
which has been doing very well of late.
They can find me on both Twitter and YouTube.
Ashton, ASA, G-O-N, D-I-R, D-I-E.
Okay, be sure to check out her most recent video on this very subject as well.
Ashton, really appreciate your time.
Thanks for joining us today.
Thank you for having me.
There goes Ashton Whitty before we get into a few final news stories here.
I want to tell you about some of the great specials at InfowarsStore.com because we've got a massive one.
It is Infowars Life Select Three Month Premium Survival Food and Alexa Pure Pro Free at $250 value.
This is an incredible deal for anyone looking to take care of their family in an emergency,
of which we might have a few more in the coming years,
given what's happening in the Middle East and with Russia.
For a limited time, you can save big when you buy the three month Infowars Life Select Premium Food Supply at InfowarsStore.com
by getting an Alexa Pure Pro Free at $250 value to help you support the show.
So you'll receive a powerful water filtration system, the Alexa Pure Pro,
while also securing a three month food supply about ultimate fresh and healthy storeable meals
for your family for $250 value in savings.
So you get $250 value in savings, the Alexa Pure Pro and the three month food supply.
Don't wait until an emergency strikes to make sure you and your loved ones are prepared
with a three month Infowars Life Select Premium Storeable Food Kit.
And again, if nothing happens and the sell-by date just runs out,
which is not going to happen for a long time,
just eat the food and save money anyway and you also support this broadcast.
As Alex says, it's a 360 win.
We've also got massive savings, end of lot sales, super mail vitality 50% off.
Again, the three month food supply, the Alexa Pure Pro Free, as I just mentioned,
we've got vitality and balance combo, which is super mail vitality in the real red pill,
also massive discount 50% off.
True alpha mail combo, which is super mail vitality in alpha power again, 50% off.
Double Patriot points for the rest of the month.
Just stock up now, get the auto ship option so you don't have to keep going back if you forget to reorder
and support this network as we receive a lawsuit on a bi-weekly basis at this point.
We're under sustained attack, but we can't be brought down because we enjoy your fantastic support
by getting the specials at InfowarsStore.com.
Now talking about people being attacked, of course, Laura Ingram was under a boycott
by David Hogg's efforts a couple of weeks ago.
She took a holiday, she's returned to the air, and her ratings are up by more than 20%.
So round of applause for David Hogg.
He's managed to boost Laura Ingram's ratings by over 20%.
He's the best ally that Republicans could have in these midterm elections.
Gun sales are through the roof.
Conservatives are active, they're angry, they're annoyed, they want to fight back through the ballot box.
We thank sincerely David Hogg for all his efforts, and congratulations to Laura Ingram.
Her show's 20% up, she's doing just fine.
That's going to wrap it up for me.
War Room with Owen Shroyer is coming up.
Breaking news at Infowars.com.
We'll be back.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
