Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Hello, Newsday.
Nope, there's no such thing anymore.
Welcome to the Alex Jones show. Filling in for Alex today, I am Owen Schroyer.
Stacks and stacks and stacks and stacks and stacks and stacks and stacks of news to cover.
And more stacks.
But if the Democrats, if the deep state had their way, I wouldn't be allowed to come on here and cover all this news.
Infowars wouldn't exist.
And while it seems trivial at this point, for me to come up here and talk about the attacks on free speech,
as Twitter and Facebook and YouTube are banning and censoring conservatives left and right,
and then they say, oh, we're an equal opportunity for them, open forum, open platform.
You got a list of about 100 people, 100 conservatives banned from Twitter, banned from Facebook, politicians,
people that do art like Sabo, members of the media.
If you're a conservative, you're gone.
Bye-bye, conservative. You're not allowed on Twitter. You're not allowed on YouTube. You're not allowed on Facebook.
Oh, but that's just one level.
Then they'll go even farther. I am subscribed to get a notification every time Trump tweets, every time the White House tweets.
I don't get them. Thanks, Twitter.
And then they waged lawsuit after lawsuit after lawsuit attacking us to try to handicap us financially
and then destroy us in the court of public opinion. That's their goal.
And I'm going to talk about that when we move on here in the next segment.
But I mean, just the whole swath of news that we're going to cover today,
everything is on a high wire right now.
And we're either going to fall or we're going to get to the other side and be better off because of it.
But I'm not even sure where to begin. We've got Laura Loomer coming on.
She was at, I told you this was going to happen yesterday on the war room.
She disrupted a James Comey event. James Comey. What a fraud that guy is.
Just what an absolute fraud. And that was the FBI director. One of the biggest frauds in history, James Comey.
And then he's like, well, I'm no longer a Republican. Nobody gives a damn about your political affiliation.
You are a Clinton operative. You are a scum bag.
Oh, and Kit Daniels has the story at infowars.com.
Lawmaker Comey lied to Congress suggests new evidence.
So we've just got more evidence of Comey being a liar.
Did Comey perjure himself too? Did Comey leak? Well, he admitted that after he said he didn't leak.
Then he admitted he did leak. But then he said he didn't leak.
And then the timeline doesn't make sense of when he may have leaked or may not have leaked.
Oh, you're leaking, James Comey.
Then they have this new narrative. Michael Cohen would flip against Trump.
Well, now let's think about that. What does that even mean?
He's going to flip against Trump? Flip what?
Well, okay. Michael Cohen is going to flip on Trump.
Michael Cohen comes out and says, Trump had an affair with Stormy Daniels.
Oh my gosh. Nobody cares.
Cohen's going to flip on Trump. It's just ridiculous.
Then you've got a chemical attack in Syria, a total false flag.
The OPCW can't even go investigate. The media won't cover it.
And then one of the individuals who was there in the attack or the alleged attack on video
has now gone public and said the whole thing was staged.
Who reported that first? Infowars, right here, The Alex Jones Show.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage,
resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with cell force from Infowars Life.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Welcome to The Alex Jones Show. It is Thursday, April 19th, 2018.
Filling in for Alex Jones today, I'm your host, Owen Schreuer.
What you can expect today. Laura Loomer joins me in the first hour.
We're going to talk about her going to the Comey book signing and doing what Loomer does best.
Injecting a little truth into their staged event and then exposing the frauds for what they are.
Mike Cernovich joins me in the second hour.
We'll cover all the news with Mike, get his take on everything that's going on right now.
And then Hotep Jesus, the individual that went into Starbucks, cried racist and got a free coffee.
He'll be joining us.
I'm sorry. It's so ridiculous.
Oh my gosh. I almost want to go to a Starbucks and try to reenact this.
And just be like, yeah, I'm a white male. Can I get a free coffee?
They are going to look at me like I'm some kind of three-headed creep.
So he's going to be joining us to talk about that. In the meantime, all of this news, I'm going to try to get to all of it.
But let's recall something because we have a memory here and we don't just flush things down the memory hole.
We don't just forget things. We don't just bury things.
And there's two stories that really show you how inept or corrupt or incompetent or bought and paid for, controlled, whatever you want to say.
Mainstream television media is where you can go over every news station during all of their news coverage for the last two weeks
and you will only find about five places out of hundreds.
If you're on television, you might get something from one American news network.
If you're tuned into Tucker Carlson, you might get a little bit Lou Dobbs.
Other than that, every outlet, every voice, every talking head is saying that a chemical attack happened in Syria.
Now, it doesn't matter that you have multiple reports of it being a false flag.
It doesn't matter that if you take a look at history, you realize that false flag chemical attacks in Syria are commonplace.
It doesn't take long. Here's another video. Here's the doctor waiting for his cue.
Okay, now fall over. Fall over. Are you ready? I'm going to fall.
Okay, here we go. Three, two, one. There he goes. He's down. He's out.
Now, is this from sarin gas? Is it from chlorine? You don't know. They don't have to tell you.
All they have to say is chemical attack Syria, Assad bad, bomb them.
And then every television media personality parrots that point, except again, Tucker Carlson, Lou Dobbs, Laura Ingraham questions it a little bit, but they all go with it.
And then you've got Rand Paul. You've got European diplomats, politicians, everybody saying it's a false flag, reporting that it's a false flag.
I've got a stack of news. Here it is. Former naval chief says it's a false flag, Alan West questioning whether the chemical attack in Syria was actually the work of Assad.
Robert Fisk has a great story that came out two days ago about the search for truth in the rubble of doom and one doctor's doubts over the chemical attack.
He breaks it all down beautifully. And this story was from two days ago.
But there's actually been development since then where the OPCW, so we're what almost two or three weeks removed from the alleged chemical attack.
They haven't even investigated the scene. They haven't even gone into the scene to do an investigation and we're already bombing them.
And then we're outrageous for being upset about that.
And then here's the story from Sputnik. Syrian boy in white helmets, fake chemical attack video reveals the truth.
They found the actual kid from the video and he admits it's fake.
I mean, you know, there it is. We'll play the video. We'll play the video. We won't play it now, guys, but we'll play the video for you.
You know, there it is. You know, I mean, it's just like the famous footage of that one kid in the back of the ambulance.
He's covered in dust and he's got the open wound on his head. All fake. All fake.
You can go watch the video where they're applying the makeup and they're smashing their hands on his open wound.
He would be shrieking in pain if that was an open wound. It's all fake.
Oh, so now let's bring it home.
So info wars has been telling you that this is a false flag since day one.
That's not because we have some sort of intel. It's because we have a memory. It's because we know our history.
Yeah, there's the famous boy. That's fake. That is fake.
Here's this. Another one fake. They're doing the mannequin challenge. He's under some rubble and then magically he gets up and walks away.
It's all fake. You know, but let's bomb Syria over it. Okay. But so, but all right. So now let's bring it home.
Ladies and gentlemen, they are trying to sue us into oblivion right now because our audience is so massive and we're so effective.
They cannot beat us reporting the truth. They can't see the truth always wins out.
And that's why we keep winning because we just tell you the truth. We don't have any agenda.
We're not managed or manipulated by Russians or by American politicians or big pharmaceutical companies. We just give you the truth.
And so they attack us. They lie about us. They sue us with these frivolous lawsuits.
But here's why they can't get away with false flags to lead us into foreign wars with info wars existing.
They can't lie and rig an election to get Hillary Clinton selected president with info wars existing. You see how that works?
They can't lie and stage events and then use it for a political agenda when info wars exists.
So in order for them to not just go with their fake news and make it real, make it truth in the eye of the public.
They have to shut us down because if we exist, their fake news does not win.
And these most recent lawsuits, folks, think about this. Think about this dirty trick that shows you how they're all colluding against us.
So I get under attack for they say, I said that the Parkland shooting never happened and they're all actors.
They take a clip of me talking about these student actors who are literally wearing the Marjorie Stoneman Douglas theater logo on their shirt.
The theater department coach or teacher is right there behind them. She even speaks. And so there's the clip.
So I'm just explaining how their actual actors, like in theater, like their thespians, and they take that clip and they cut it out.
And then they play it on television and they say, Owen Schreuer says that the Parkland shooting never happened in their actors.
Even though I never said that, I specifically said they're not Christ's actors, but they're in the theater department.
But they clip it up and they lie about it and then they play it on television. But this is even the dirtier trick.
They remove the video from YouTube of me saying it.
So they lie about what I said, clip it and then play it out of context and commentate over it.
Then they use their operatives at YouTube to remove the video of me saying it so that you can't even watch the original report.
Do you see how dirty these scumbags are?
Huh. Schreuer said the Parkland shooting never happened. He said they're actors.
I'm going to go listen to that clip. I'm not sure about that. Oh, you can't find it. They removed it. They banned it.
So we don't even get a voice. So then now they steal our voice.
So now they steal everything we do and then misrepresent it.
I've worked here for almost two years. Alex Jones has never said no one died at Sandy Hook.
In the two years I've worked here and then somehow I'm involved in that suit. I wasn't even here during Sandy Hook.
Alex Jones says people died at Sandy Hook like every day. But how often does the media report on that?
How often does the media show you a clip of Alex Jones saying he believes people died at Sandy Hook?
Zero times, folks. Zero.
No one died at Sandy Hook.
No one died at Sandy Hook.
No one died at Sandy Hook.
No one died at Sandy Hook.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a Patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow Patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated Patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
It seems repetitive and almost ceremonious at this point to sit here and say the First Amendment is under attack. Infowars is under attack.
But they never stopped. They never stopped attacking free speech. They never stopped banning conservatives on Twitter and Facebook. They never stopped attacking us with frivolous lawsuits to try to bring us down.
And while we get flack for last Friday night's reporting of being against the strikes in Syria, warning about World War III, a voice in the wilderness, amazing, Infowars, the big conspiracy theorist, the right-wingers at Infowars, the conservatives, the alt-right, is anti-war?
A voice in the wilderness? Nobody's going to join Infowars in being anti-war? Nobody's going to join Infowars in being against strikes in Syria over a false flag?
I can't even get the young Turks to join us on trying to stop World War III. Who are these people?
And it does look like we're avoiding further conflict in Syria for now. As more people are reporting that it's a false flag, more evidence of videos coming out that they staged the whole thing, the white helmets are basing...
I mean, let's give the white helmets a round of applause. I mean, this is Grammy, Emmy, I mean, just give them all the awards. I mean, this is the best performance art you could imagine.
I mean, when are the Oscars coming up? Give this doctor an Oscar.
Oh my gosh, but Infowars is fear-mongering over strikes in Syria. Yeah, they fake a chemical attack, bomb Syria, ticks off Russia, and then I'm just supposed to be like, oh yeah, cool.
Oh, but then MSNBC reports like breaking news. Rachel Maddow looks like a cartoon character. I can't even stand. I mean, okay.
And then she says, well, we've got new reports that Donald Trump has back channels with Russia and that he's been in communication behind closed doors with Russia talking about diplomatic policy and foreign policy.
And they're like, oh, we got him. We got Trump now. He's got a back channel with Russia. He's colluding. And I'm looking at this and I'm like, thank God Donald Trump has a back channel with Russia.
Thank God Trump and Putin are talking behind closed doors and they're not going to go to World War III. Thank God.
And MSNBC's Rachel Maddow is like, we got Trump in Russia. We're going to force him into World War III. I'm a loving peace monger. Rachel Maddow, I want to bomb Syria and go to war with Russia.
I look like the cartoon character Mandark from Dexter's Laboratory, but I'm a good liberal that wants to bomb Syria.
So that's who they want on air. A total loon, probably chemically imbalanced, Rachel Maddow, neck looks like a giraffe, looks like a cartoon character.
I think she's had Botox injected into her eyebrows so that she's constantly looking angry.
But regardless, that's who they want on air. That's who they want covering news. A total knit, a total sellout, a chemically imbalanced cartoon circus act like Rachel Maddow.
There she is, the cartoon character Mandark from Dexter's Laboratory. Thank you. Thank you.
Oh my gosh. But let me explain something about the mainstream news. They'll attack Alex Jones all day long, and they'll pair at the same talking point.
He says no one died at Sandy Hook, and they'll play the same clip, the same clip, over and over and over and over.
As if he's never done any other broadcast, he's never said anything else. That's the only thing Alex Jones has ever done was one little clip saying no one died in Sandy Hook.
Even though that's not what he said, he's on air reporting on an ongoing event and playing devil's advocate and looking at all the angles.
But here's the key. This is what you need to understand about the mainstream news.
How many times has Alex Jones said on this show right here, where I sit, he believes people died at Sandy Hook.
He feels bad for the people that lost lives at Sandy Hook. He believes that there were actual deaths, you know, children died and what have you.
How many times has Alex Jones said that in this seat, reported that? I've worked here for two years. I've heard it hundreds of times.
Now, how many times has the mainstream media played any of those clips?
How many times have they played a clip of Alex Jones saying he believes people died at Sandy Hook? Zero times.
And if you understand why they won't play those clips, then you understand everything because think about it.
If their agenda, if their real goal was to just attack Alex Jones and embarrass Alex Jones, then they would play those clips of him saying that he believes people died in Sandy Hook.
And they would play it and then they would say, haha, got you, Alex Jones. We beat you. We made you retract.
But they don't do that. Do you know why?
Because they have to maintain this attack stance that Alex Jones doesn't believe anyone died at Sandy Hook.
Even though it's fake news, even though he said he does believe that hundreds of times, they can't play that clip because then it destroys their only attack dog.
It destroys their narrative. It's the same thing with gay frogs.
Oh, Alex Jones believes chemicals in the water are turning the frogs gay. And then he just reports on the study, reports on the site.
There's a damn video of Berkeley scientists. See, but that's the point.
It's not about showing you what Alex Jones actually says or believes. It's about building a straw man.
Yeah, there's the video of the scientists taking the frogs, the chemicals in the water, you know, messing with their genders or sexual reproductive organs, etc.
Oh, but we're crazy for reporting on that and we're conspiracy theorists.
But they have to maintain the narrative that Alex Jones doesn't believe anyone died at Sandy Hook because that's their attack dog.
That's what they think is the chink in our armor. And they never show any of the videos of Alex Jones actually saying that he believed people died.
And so that's how the fake media works. And when they can attack us and sue us over things we never said, I'm not even, I wasn't even working here during the Sandy Hook thing.
And they tried to lump me into that stuff. I wasn't even involved in politics when that went on.
I was in sports media. But somehow I'm involved in that.
I mean, Troyer doesn't think anyone died in Parkland. I never said that. In fact, again, it's the same thing.
I'm on air that day covering it like almost in tears because I have to cover another shooting.
And they're like, well, Troyer thinks they're all crisis actors.
No, we looked at the people that were speaking and they all were in the theater department.
They were being coached by the teacher who runs the theater department.
So it's like, what do you do? So now they sue us frivolously, made up bullcrap not to win in court.
They can't win in court to demonize us, to dehumanize us, to hopefully win in the court of public opinion and then try to financially handicap us.
But it's not working because we have a First Amendment right. You get it?
That's why they have to stop the First Amendment. That's why they have to censor free speech.
That's why they're censoring conservatives because the truth wins every time.
This is Dan Pillon. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to find them.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpillard.com.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it, at m4store.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA, it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the m4.
It is a classical 360-win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield at m4store.com.
I'm so excited, the new product at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae
working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at m4warsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
All right, Laura Loomer is about to join me here on the Alex Jones show.
Owen Schroyer filling in for Alex today.
You know what?
Well, I'll talk about that later, but well, it's just incredible.
All the attacks that we're under, but then your support at infowarsstore.com.
I mean, the times we're living in are honestly insane, and I'm not even sure if we here at Infowars can even comprehend our role in history right now.
Like we understand that this is potentially the most important times in human history, but I don't even know.
I mean, do I even do a good job fulfilling my role here?
Like, are we even worthy of this role in history right now?
But look at this.
Look at this.
See, you don't get this kind of stuff unless these are just crazy times in human history right now.
All the government corruption, a guy like Trump getting in all the, I mean, imagine if they applied the same microscope to all the other politicians that they've applied to investigating Donald Trump.
People like Nancy Pelosi worth $100 million as a senator.
What do you think would turn up on her?
It's just incredible stuff.
But let me just get focused here as we're joined by Laura Loomer.
Let me read some of these headlines.
First of all, this is from the Politico.
Look at the dirtbags at the Politico that spin this headline.
Trump allies urge criminal investigations of Clinton, Comey, and Lynch.
You see what they did here?
Trump allies.
As if these people like Ron DeSantis have never been around.
Ron DeSantis, he's just a Trump ally.
Jeff Sessions, he's just a Trump ally.
Uh, no Politico.
These people were in government before Trump.
But that's what they spin it.
So they make it look like a Trump thing and a partisan thing.
And they say, Trump allies want to investigate Comey and Clinton.
No.
How about members of the government want to do their job and investigate criminals?
There's your headline, Politico, but they spin it and they say Trump allies.
Oh, it's Trump doing it.
No, James Comey and Hillary Clinton are a bunch of lion criminals.
Fox News.
GOP reps refer Comey, Clinton, McCabe for criminal investigation.
Infowars.com, Kent Daniels.
Lawmaker, Comey lied to Congress, suggests new evidence.
Then you've got Dirty Cop Comey was only taking pre-screened questions
at first book signing event in New York City.
Laura Loomer was at that.
She joins me in a moment.
Far-right activist interrupts Comey book event.
That was Laura Loomer.
So Laura, do you believe that James Comey was taking staged questions?
Was this a staged event that they had for Comey up there in New York?
Yes, it was.
And I saw it with my own eyes.
And that's why I had to do what I did and, you know, ask a question, you know, out in the open.
I was waiting inside that Barnes & Noble for five hours before the event started, right?
It started at 7 p.m. and I got there probably at 9 o'clock in the morning.
And before the events began, about an hour or so before somebody, one of his staff members,
brought a big fish bowl, glass fish bowl out onto the podium and said,
well, Mr. Comey won't be signing books, but he's going to be doing a Q&A.
So if you want to ask him a question, you can fill out this piece of paper, put it in the bowl,
and we will be deciding which questions he reviews.
So what I don't understand is how are you able to ask James Comey a question
and really check him like a real journalist would on his corruption and lies and fraud
when he and his staff are screening and determining which questions are appropriate?
Well, this is just typical.
I mean, they can't let an actual question be asked of James Comey.
I'm surprised they even let you in.
I mean, you're like a public enemy number one at these deals.
What was the response, though, because you can see in the video how some of the women turn around
and they're like, oh, they're like a gasp that you would even dare step out of line.
But I mean, what was the overall response?
What was Comey's response like?
I mean, looking in his eyes, what was it like?
Well, James Comey was like a deer caught in the headlights, right?
Because he thought that this was liberal New York City, Hillary Clinton land,
where everybody was there to support him.
And when I asked my question, as soon as I said, hey, Comey, hey, you know, he just got this really kind of somber look on his face.
And I think he was really dumbfounded.
I don't think he was expecting that because he thought, well, you know, being the former director of the FBI,
people are going to listen to me when I tell them they can only ask questions when I tell them they can.
But that's not how I operate.
And that's not how any journalist should operate.
Really, this is America and we have freedom of the press.
And, you know, the ability of the press to ask questions shouldn't be dependent on, you know, the feelings and the desires of the corrupt officials
that the fourth estate was created with the intention of, you know, keeping track of.
Of course, you saw the audience.
They weren't too happy.
I was booed.
I was actually assaulted as well on my way out.
Nobody really saw this on camera.
But there was a lady who put her foot out and kicked my leg and said, whoops.
Oh, gosh.
But the security was grabbing my arm.
So some liberal bitch tried to trip you?
She actually did.
And I kind of, you can see in the video that I kind of move forward like this as I'm walking out because she actually tripped me and said,
whoops, don't trip.
So these people are violent.
Yeah, like she's in kindergarten or something.
Like some like kindergarten stuff like, oh, have a nice trip.
See you next fall.
Like grow up.
Yeah, no, exactly.
And, you know, James Comey just was dumbfounded because I don't know.
A lot of people don't know this, but James Comey released his book pretty much yesterday.
Yesterday was the beginning of his book tour, the very first day.
Prior to coming to Barnes and Noble for the book events, he was on the view.
And while he was on the view, it was a breaking news alert that 11 lawmakers filed a criminal referral and delivered it to the desk of Attorney General Jeff Sessions,
calling for people like James Comey, Andrew McCabe, Loretta Lynch, Hillary Clinton to be prosecuted for their participation in this salacious and unverified dossier.
And, you know, trying to sabotage Donald Trump in illegal ways is, you know, by obtaining this warrant through manufactured evidence.
That's what it is.
That's what it is.
He is so scared.
Honestly, they're also scared.
Hillary Clinton.
Trump is an unknown factor to them in the sense that he doesn't come from the same club.
He's not in the exclusive secret society like they are.
So he's an unknown factor.
They don't know what he might be doing behind the scenes or what his agenda might be.
So they're just freaking out because they've got this boatload of crimes that they've been covering up and that they're guilty of.
And they thought Hillary Clinton would come in.
They could just sweep it all under the rug and continue on.
Trump gets in.
So now they're in a total panic.
Comey knows he's a criminal.
Clinton knows that she's a criminal.
And so now these investigations are coming down and they're trying to act like, oh, it's fake news or it's just a Donald Trump thing.
But no, these people are have been just lawless for years.
These people have been lawless.
And so calling is up there.
I mean, what is it?
Doesn't that tell you everything though that they're so afraid of you, Laura?
That they're so afraid of you asking a question.
I mean, that shows you how criminal these people really are.
They can't even let Laura Loomer ask a question.
Yeah.
And look, this isn't even just a one-time occurrence, right?
You saw this with Hillary Clinton when I confronted her at her book signing.
You saw it with Chelsea Clinton when I confronted Chelsea Clinton at her book signing.
When I confronted Huma Abedin at Hillary Clinton's book signing, Secret Service escorted me out and assaulted me.
Right?
These people think that they are above the law and I just have one thing to say to them.
If you do not want to answer questions and you do not want to interact with the American people,
do not host a book signing.
Don't even write a book, right?
Because I don't want the American people to be robbed if they're harder in money for these books
that these people don't even write, right?
They don't even write their own books, first of all.
And then on top of that, you know, you're going to kick people out for coming to ask you a question at your own book signing.
That's not how it works, all right?
Well, that's how it works in the controlled media.
I just can't even believe it.
You're in a room of like 100 people and they're just total nitwits.
I mean, it's like, see, that's the incredible thing too.
If you would have asked these people four years ago, first of all, they probably won't even know who James Comey is.
But if you just would have asked them, do you think the FBI is corrupt?
They would have all said yes.
Of course the FBI is corrupt.
Oh, but now that it's defending their goddess, Hillary Clinton.
Oh, the FBI is glorious.
Don't you dare insult James Comey.
Yeah.
No, look, I mean, there's just so much cognitive dissonance and people just don't want to hear the truth.
They're just blinded by their own bias.
And the fact of the matter is James Comey can talk about ethical leadership all he wants.
And he can claim that he is, you know, the standard or, you know, the spitting image of what's, you know, or Plato's ideal concept of what ethical leadership can be.
But it doesn't change the fact that 11 lawmakers filed a criminal referral against them and he probably will end up getting prosecuted.
And that's what you told him.
You told James Comey to his face.
He's going to get locked up.
I'm going to end the video on the other side.
Owen Troyer, Laura Loomer.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in Full Wars Life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preclinone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word.
And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
The Gulf of Tonkin, weapons of mass destruction, babies in incubators, all fake news to send us to war.
Now we cover that.
We know that.
And we don't like that.
So we come out against the strikes in Syria because we know that they're based on a false flag, which by the way, the OPCW still can't get in.
Yesterday, they were under gunfire, couldn't get in to investigate.
Today, they're blocked again.
They can't even get into the scenes.
Haven't even investigated the scenes of the chemical attack or the alleged chemical attack.
Ron Paul, or excuse me, Rand Paul says the Syrian chemical attack, false flag.
I bet Ron Paul said it too.
You've got all kinds of people, you know, US politicians, European politicians, naval intelligence.
I mean, you know, everybody knows it's a false flag.
I mean, Trump knows it.
He lied to us.
He gaslit us.
And then who knows what actually happened with the strikes?
Who knows if they lied about that too.
But this is all fake.
So we cover it.
We report that it's fake and we try to stop another foreign intervention over fake news and then we get demonized.
But here's the clip of the boy in the recent videos that they're claiming were videos from the chemical attack.
Here is that boy.
And I'm going to have to speak over this because it's in subtitles because it's not in English.
But here is the boy saying who is in the video that the entire event was staged.
So there's the boy and his father.
An 11 year old Syrian boy who was presented as a victim of a chemical attack in Douma by the white helmets has told how his video was shot.
Here's the kid.
We heard a cry outside shouting go, we ran to the hospital and as soon as I entered they grabbed me and started pouring water on me.
The father speaking, I was doing construction jobs at the local stadium.
When I found out that my family was in the hospital, I almost went crazy.
I left work and returned to our district.
I didn't see anyone.
I didn't hear anything about the chemical attack.
That's amazing.
Must have been a media fake news story.
I smoked outside and felt nothing.
I entered the hospital and asked about my family.
So here he is at the side of the alleged attack.
He's saying there was nothing there.
I saw that water had been poured in the room and saw some children.
They shouted hello.
I went upstairs and saw my wife and children.
I asked, what are you doing here?
So obviously he's confused at this point, like what's going on, why are people talking about this and there's nothing going on.
They answered, someone shouted outside that they started to smell something.
So we ran in here, after that we were given dates and cookies.
Praise be to Allah, the children were fine.
Some people, some people, we don't know any one of them.
This is incredible stuff.
Chemical attack, chemical attack, here in the hospital we didn't see any chemical attack symptoms here.
So the White Helmet staged the whole thing.
I mean it's literally a staged event.
They just faked the whole thing.
Yeah but let's bomb Syria.
This is ridiculous man.
Syria wants to be about rock and roll and sport events and having sovereignty and being secular.
And so the globalists just have to rape it and destroy it and remove Assad man.
I mean it's just so gross.
Let's turn to it on the other side.
This is it.
Something the globalists are targeting, visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
So I was making a joke.
I don't even, did I make it on air during the break?
I don't remember.
But basically we just play a Sputnik video so now we're going to be Russian agents.
That's what they're going to say.
Oh Info Wars is colluding with Russia.
They played a Sputnik video.
That's like someone in Russia playing a video of me doing a man on the street just because it's a video.
I mean it's raw.
It's real.
I mean there's no agenda.
It's just a video.
And so they play it and then they say, oh they're colluding with the Russians and Info Wars is colluding and it's all fake news.
And it's like, no, no, no, we're just playing a video.
So it's like I can't even play a Sputnik video without being considered a Russian agent.
It's like, oh how dare Sputnik go shoot a video of the area where they say the chemical attack happened and where they staged the whole thing.
And he talks to one of the boys and one of the men that was there and experienced it.
I mean, how dare they?
I'm not sitting here acting like Sputnik is the final source of truth here.
They're just playing a video.
They're just talking to people playing a video.
And so then all I do, all we do is we just analyze it and we break it down and we say, well someone's lying here.
And what would make sense for Assad to gas his own people?
So we don't need to get a motive for the Vegas shooting.
We don't need to get a motive for Assad gassing his own people.
The mainstream television news just reports it.
Just does what they're told.
Just goes along with the fake news.
Just goes along with the cover-up.
But now here's a video from the BBC, former head of the UK Navy, Lord West, doubts the official story on the Syria attack.
It's absolutely right to do a wrap across his knuckles to show him that the international community are not willing to put up with this and it's right to do it.
But I just wonder, you know, we've had some bad experiences on intelligence.
When I was chief of defense intelligence, I had huge pressure put on me, politically, to try and say that our bombing campaign in Bosnia was achieving all sorts of things, which it wasn't.
I've put under huge pressure.
So I know the things that can happen with intelligence.
I'm just like to be absolutely sure.
Intelligence agencies lying to go to war on Friday accused a Western state on Friday of perhaps fabricating evidence and dooma or somehow being involved.
We have no evidence.
They don't even fabricate evidence anymore with Russia on so many fronts.
The BBC is like CNN, by the way, a total joke, advisable to be stating this publicly, given your position and your profile. Isn't there a danger that you're muddying the waters?
Well, I think I think the answer.
All right, you know what? Pause it right there.
So this is so frustrating because I just don't know why why do people like this exist?
Muddying the water.
He's out here trying to report the truth, trying to shed light on a false flag, perhaps trying to stop a larger war.
And he's muddying the water, says the BBC host.
Give me a break.
Go back.
I've said on Friday or accused a Western state on Friday of perhaps fabricating evidence and dooma or somehow being involved with what happened in dooma.
Given that we're in an information war with Russia on so many fronts, do you think perhaps it's an advisable to be stating this so publicly?
Given your position and your profile, isn't there a danger that you're muddying the waters?
Well, I think the answer is, if there's a real concern, let's face it, if he hasn't done it, then that is extremely bad news.
You know, if Assad hasn't carried out the attack, and I think it's just worth making that clear.
No, see, exactly.
That's it right there.
Here, that's it.
Pull the clip out.
Exactly right there.
That's what it is because if people understood that they would lie about something like that to go to war, their entire game would be over.
Their entire facade would collapse.
The entire house of cards would fall in on itself.
That's the key.
I didn't even, see, people want to, oh my gosh, this is so, this is so important.
That's literally everything.
They have to maintain their lie that Assad gassed his own people because if the truth comes out, that intelligence agencies would fabricate that lie about that.
And then the media in lockstep with the fake attack, with the fake news, would go and report on it all day long and shove it down your throat, the fake narrative.
If people understood that that was the deal, their whole game is over.
And people are understanding that's the deal.
That's why they're losing.
That's why CNN and MSNBC are failing.
That's why, you can't even, show me one liberal talk show.
That they don't read off a teleprompter.
The only thing that you can find, and trust me, I've tried, is Rachel Maddow.
The circus freak is the only liberal that can actually do a show and probably doesn't rely on a teleprompter all the time.
Now, of course, Mandark reads off a teleprompter.
I'm not saying that.
I'm just saying there isn't a liberal with the IQ and the thought capacity and the wit to do what we do here, to go live for three hours without a teleprompter, to report on real news.
Oh, my teleprompter says Assad gassed his own people.
Yes, Assad gassed his own people.
Assad very, very bad.
Oh, but when you find out that the intelligence agencies lied about it, the whole thing was staged and the media went along with the lie?
Folks, I mean, this is like, I mean, do you understand how big this is?
Do you, do you, I mean, look at this, they fake an attack in Syria.
This is so ridiculous.
Then they send an anchor from CNN.
They send an anchor for CNN in Syria and she puts her head in a backpack and is like, oh, yeah, it smells like Sharon.
You dumbass, you'd be dead if that was Sharon.
But that's what I'm saying.
That's how stupid they are.
Oh, oh, my gosh.
She sticks her head in the backpack and smells like Sharon.
Really?
Was it a Sharon attack?
Was it a chlorine attack?
You don't even know.
That's how dumb you are.
You didn't even do your research before you went to the scene of the alleged crime.
And then you sniff a backpack that you think smells like Sharon, even though Sharon gas wasn't even the chemical used in the attack.
Oh, God.
Oh, I mean, see, this is what I'm talking about.
Let me explain something.
I hate politics.
I hate it.
I hate this crap.
All of this news on my desk that I got to cover about nonsense in California, not liberals wishing Barbara Bush was dead.
I mean, all of this crazy stuff.
Governor Cuomo in New York, partying felons.
I hate this stuff.
I want to go to a rock and roll show.
I want to go to a ballgame.
That's what I want to do.
But you know why I don't do that, folks?
Because I realized five years ago that the mainstream media are a bunch of liars.
And I had to do this.
There was no other option.
There is no other option.
That's why this is so key.
And then people are waking up as soon as the facade of the mainstream media falls, it's game over.
It's game over.
And they have to have us removed from the playing field before they collapse because we are the game changers.
We are the real news.
And so it's just if people understood how fake television news was, how scripted, they just get their talking points from the intelligence agencies that lie all day long.
They claim they're the arbiters of intelligence. They are the arbiters of destroying intelligence.
That's what they do.
They muddy the waters with their lies.
They start wars with their lies.
And then Chuck Schumer goes on television and says,
You better not cross the intelligence agencies.
They've got five ways of Sunday of messing up or getting back at you.
Oh, so then they lie about chemical attacks.
They lie about Trump colluding with Russia.
They lie in some dossier.
It's all a big lie.
So you know what? I can't just put it all aside and watch sports and rock concerts because I have a mainstream media lying to the public trying to send us into another war and censor my free speech.
I mean, that is everything. These people are just total fake news.
We need in budget. See our full range at quantum harvest dot net.
That's one eight seven seven nine nine B. E. R. K. E. Y.
Hear that. That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed this year.
Resolve not to be the next victim of a break in go to fake TV dot com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful fake TV dot com.
Hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier and archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back.
It's micro zx plus lower price more ingredients because we scaled up signed to your contract with even bigger organic manufacturer and producer scalability but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39 50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient micro zx.
Now it's the other side of the equation.
Everybody thinks about probiotics now great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment pesticides herbicides but more importantly than bad bacteria.
The probiotics help this place.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus now from the info wars store.
Info wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out at a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with it sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it sold out and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in 4slife.com.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
So I just had the great crew remind me here.
We're so inundated that we don't even remember our own stuff.
On Friday, I am doing a WikiLeaks special when I host the war room, which is what I'm normally hosting today.
Owens Royer filling in for Alex Jones here on the Alex Jones show.
But on Friday, when I'm hosting the war room from three to six p.m. central, we're doing a WikiLeaks special.
And what I'm asking the audience to do is to call in with your favorite WikiLeaks content, whether it's a Podesta email, a DNC email, a Vault 7 release.
You know, emails from years ago during the Bush administration, whatever it is, your favorite WikiLeaks content.
We're doing a WikiLeaks special from three to six p.m. central on the war room hosted by myself and Roger Stone.
And we're just going to cover all the WikiLeaks stuff and whatever your favorite content is or you think, whatever you think is the most groundbreaking or the most revealing,
because they don't deny the content of the WikiLeaks as being legit. They never have, because they're real.
So we'll just go ahead and we'll just shed light back on those WikiLeaks emails.
Now, the $65,000 hot dogs that Obama paid for with taxpayer dollars.
They said they want to use the same channels and the same waitresses.
Hmm, $65,000 hot dog, huh?
I have a feeling that that $65,000 hot dog comes with some nice pecs, some nice muscular legs.
You know what I'm saying?
So that's what we're going to do on Friday in the war room. I'm looking forward to that.
Now, I also have to say the crew corrected me. Apparently Rachel Maddow is completely scripted.
The whole show and they have the article that breaks it all down.
I mean, these, of course it's scripted. I mean, but, but here's the thing about, look, Rachel Maddow is a total circus freak.
Okay, but I at least give her credit. I mean, she can basically go on air for three hours and it seems like she's original and not reading off the teleprompter, but apparently the whole thing is scripted.
So there is no liberal outlet of free speech, essentially. It's all controlled. It's all teleprompter reading. It's all fake.
There's no wit. There's no creativity. That's why there's no liberal talk show hosts.
You can't find a liberal talk show host that has a radio show because radio is teleprompter free.
You have to be able to think on your feet and you have to know your facts.
Well, there is no liberal that possesses those traits.
So Rachel Maddow ends up being totally fake news as well. I thought at least she was speaking from the heart and the mind as corrupted and dumbed down as it may be.
But the whole thing's scripted, so I'm fake news.
But here's the other key to just put a cap on what I was talking about, the fake news and the Syrian attack in the last segment.
They don't just lie. This is not a isolated incident of mainstream media lying about a chemical attack in Syria, folks.
They lie about everything. Everything.
How do you think if you had a real media, if you had a real television media in this country, the whole Russian collusion, Trump investigation would already be torn to shreds.
But if you watch most of the television media, 90% of it, you'd think it's legit. You'd think they actually got something.
I mean, see, that's how fake it is.
I just want people to understand that. And if you understand that, you understand everything.
Literally. That is like the first step to the awakening process. That is the first step to enlightenment is understanding how fake television news is and how controlled and how scripted.
Here's a story from RT. Russia's OPCW Envoy exposes eight UK lies in Screeple case. Yeah, it looks like that was a British false flag.
And then you find out that Screeple has connections to Kimba Wood, who has connections to the Clintons, and it's all the same group, folks.
I mean, the Clinton crime syndicate is worldwide. Bodies getting buried worldwide to try to hide the evidence of all their crimes.
I mean, this is sick, twisted stuff.
And if you watch television news, you wouldn't know any of it. None of it.
And that's, to me, again, the biggest thing that can wake people up.
Because, I mean, I just, I apply most things in life is a basic psychological practice. I apply most things in life to what my experience is.
And I feel like the average human has the same psychology as me. And that's the case most of the time.
When I first started watching news covering the Boston Marathon bombing in sports media, it was obvious to me how fake it was.
I didn't need someone to tell me that CNN was fake news. I didn't need someone to tell me that MSNBC was fake news.
All I had to do was watch it for 30 minutes and be like, this is a joke.
And I feel like that same capacity exists in most people, but that's why they dumbed them down with the fluoride in the water.
That's why they distract them with the sports and the Kardashians and the Bieber's and the Jersey Shores and all of that nonsense.
You know, I just, it's just so fake. It's so fake.
I just, I mean, oh, literally, Khloe Kardashian is like the biggest story to the trendies right now.
And the, and the, and the snapchatters and the Twitters and everything.
Khloe Kardashian may, she has a baby or something. And then, oh, and then they have this whole story like her husband is cheating on.
It's all fake. It's all fake. Khloe Kardashian is probably OJ Simpson's daughter.
I swear, I miss, let me just get into some of this news. I'm going to lose my mind here. It's just all so fake. I can't even deal with it.
Here, let's go to this stack. Look at this, you know, the liberal stronghold of California folks.
California has eight of 10 most polluted U.S. cities.
And there you go. California, the liberal stronghold, the most polluted state in the country.
Trump tax cut not for everyone. One million Californians will owe 12 billion more next year.
President Donald Trump's tax cuts have forced Californians to pay their fair share of taxes for the first time in years.
It used to be because California state tax was so high that they didn't even have to pay a federal tax. They got that deducted.
Well, Trump said, no, you're going to have to pay your fair share, California.
And so now California also has to pay the federal tax and they're all looking at their taxes.
They're getting raped by their state taxes. Now they're also getting hit with the federal taxes.
Welcome to the real world, California. You haven't been living there for too long.
By the way, if you look down on the streets of San Francisco, you're going to see human feces.
California bill could force businesses to submit salary data to state.
So now the state of California is funding a new program to analyze all the salaries in the state of California.
Why? To make sure women are getting equal pay.
So that's what we're going to spend our money on in California. They can't afford it, but they'll do it anyway.
And then a transgender woman gets booked into a male section of the jail during a protest
and she's complaining that she's not in the female section.
Well, how about this? I'm going to go out on a limb. Whatever private part you were born with, that's what you are.
And that's what jail cell you should go in.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon?
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Face it. Today's electric power grid is more vulnerable than ever.
From natural disasters to EMP attacks and hacking, the grid could be crippled for days,
or even decades in the most dire scenarios.
Visit quantumharvest.net to see our built-to-last EMP-protected solar power systems.
While millions suffer, you'll have vital power for water pumps, refrigeration and sanitation.
Now that's peace of mind. EMP-protected solar power systems for every need and budget.
See our full range at quantumharvest.net.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as
Valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products,
we have an InfoWarsLife. They take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you
that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Let's go to Devin in Florida. Devin in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product, and I gotta say they're amazing.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it, because I've got caveman, supermanivitality, secret swell, vitamin, mineral fusion.
I've got the body armor. Wow, thank you. You're the type of lesser that makes it all possible.
Which pharmaceutical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest. That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning, and I swear to you, I felt incredible. I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic, and I love the guys, I love the info wars through, and I just want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Alright, folks. Now, don't enjoy your filling in for Alex Jones here. I was just talking about, you know, I don't care if you like the Kardashians.
Just know what it is. Just know it's all fake. Just know it's all garbage.
Okay, I have things that I do to get my mind off of this stuff too, like go to a ballgame or whatever.
So it's fine. If you want to follow the Kardashians, fine. I'm not mad at you. Just know how fake it is.
Not just literally their bodies are fake. I mean, literally plastic bodies.
But all the stories, whatever story that they're reporting on is fake.
You know, relationship troubles or anything like that. It's all fake. It's all for show.
So just know that the Kardashians are totally fake, and that the entire Kardashian popularity movement was started by Kim Kardashian sucking a wee wee on camera.
It's just sad that this is how far our society's fallen. That's really what this comes down to.
And Joe Rogan talked about this recently on his podcast and also the blatant hypocrisy of liberals when it comes to their policies.
Here's a great clip from Joe Rogan's podcast.
So now let's talk about mass shootings.
So, get rid of gun free zones. No one wants to hear that. Get rid of gun free zones.
If you're not going to establish a perimeter outside of a building where I can go, don't tell me I can't bring my gun in there.
A sign on a window is not stopping somebody from coming into the building.
What?
We've seen it time and time and time and time again.
No way.
One of the problems, we would have mass shooting at every gun show every single day, but we don't. Why?
The same reason you pointed out why that one...
Who is this man with his logic?
Everybody had to have a gun. Crime went down.
This logic is dangerous.
We don't want to hear that, though.
We don't want to hear that the answer to gun violence is everyone has a gun.
Not such a convenient answer for a guy like you as...
It's very convenient.
Absolutely.
But here, let's look at the alternative. We've been living in it, and we're acknowledging that there's a problem.
So why are we entertaining the fact that maybe that is the case?
But do you think that...
Now, here, just pause right there, because I want to explain something.
Now, that's the picture that liberals try to paint in this gun debate.
That, oh, the gun activists, the gun nuts just want everyone to walk around with a gun to each other's heads.
No, no, no, no. It's about having the right to a firearm, and then if you know how to use it and you have a concealed carry,
now you become, you know, a protector of yourself and others around you.
But they always use that argument like, gun nuts just want everybody to have a gun,
so everyone's pointing a gun at each other.
No, that's not what it is. So just discount that. Go back.
These teachers being armed would be the answer?
All right, so...
Or do you think there should be armed security on the campus?
Okay, it should be multi-layered, right?
Because if you really want to put things into perspective,
and the NRA didn't add about this, and people got pissed off, but it's the truth,
whatever school the president's kids go to, they are guarded by guns.
That school was protected by guns, right?
Anything we hold valuable in this country is protected with guns.
No one is more anti-gun than Hollywood.
When you hear about any sort of crime or gun violence,
the left-wing people in Hollywood are the most vocal, the most virtue signaling,
the quickest to jump on their pedestal.
Meanwhile, what percentage of their f***ing movies involve gun violence?
And if you look at the Academy Awards, did you see the security of the Academy Awards?
Did you see all these left-leaning, liberal actors being protected by people with flak jackets on,
carrying guns with fingers outside the triggers?
I mean, dogs, it's crazy.
You know what it is, though? It's a loss of touch with reality.
Well, they're also insulated and protected as part of it.
Because their mindset goes like this.
Well, I have security guards. I mean, Kim Kardashian is the biggest...
I did a video on that, so that was the first thing that came to mind.
She's the biggest hypocrite on that, right?
Well, she's a dumb-dumb.
Yeah, of course, but she also influences a ton of people.
Yeah, that's unfortunate.
But Steve Harvey had her on Family Feud,
and they were on Family Feud that Kardashians in the West were talking about how stupid Kim was.
But we know this, though.
It's a crazy thing. There's no incentive for her to be intelligent.
There isn't.
I mean, she's good at making money.
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. And I don't falter for that.
Hey, make your money, boo-boo.
But at the end of the day, she still has access to scores of young influential minds.
I understand that. That's unfortunate, but there's nothing we can do about that.
There isn't.
But other than you point out the fact that she's a dumb-dumb.
Pretty much, yeah.
She's not a terrible person.
I don't think you'd speak. I don't know the woman.
Well, I've heard her talk. I just don't think she's really interested in expanding her mind.
I just don't think that that's something that's not beneficial.
But here's the thing about that, though.
The mindset, though, is there are people who we pay to carry guns.
Right. I don't need to carry them. Therefore, you don't either.
So it's the same story, and you can obviously watch the full clip on the Joe Rogan experience.
But it's the same story.
Liberals have a double standard. They don't want you to have a gun, but they're all protected by guns.
But it really is that. I mean, look, Kim Kardashian has the IQ of a comquat, okay?
And she influences millions of people.
And that's sad that people idolize somebody that's that fake, a porn star.
So I bring in Mike Cernovich now. He's going to be with me for the conclusion of this segment and as well in the next segment.
But it's the same story, Mike. Why can't liberals at least take a look in the mirror before they spout off about their policies?
Hypocrisy is probably just a natural human condition and to protect your own ego.
So in a way, liberals are doing what everyone does, which is being a hypocrite.
The difference is that liberals, they want a big mass of government.
See, the reason that I'm not liberal is because I believe that humans are fundamentally flawed,
whether that's because of original sin, as the Bible teaches, or whether it's because of the way we evolved.
We had our ancestors for very, I mean, if you ever think about it, our ancestors had to murder people to conquer territory to procreate.
And then that leaves us here trying to be moral, righteous people.
And that's why I don't support big government because I don't trust people to have a large amount of power.
And that includes myself. I don't trust myself to have a large amount of power. Liberals, though, they want this massive government.
But think about it though, Mike. But think about this. If you ask the average liberal, hey, do you want a bigger government?
I bet they would all say no.
Well, yeah, they've actually, that's one of those trolls at Crowder and those kind of types do, which is really funny.
If you go ask a liberal, you say, do you believe that we should expand government?
Oh, no, God, no, we need to keep government small. Who would want bigger government?
That's why they frame it in different ways.
So, for example, if you want gun control, as liberals do, and you want gun bans, as liberals want, you have to expand the size of government
because who else is going to go door to door and kick down doors and confiscate guns from people?
So, you're right. That's a great point. It is actually one of those, it's funny, like Mark Dice and other people.
That's sort of their wheelhouse. Go in and ask liberals, do you support bigger government?
And they'll all say, oh, no, the government. The government's way too big. It has way too much power.
I mean, just think about that. These people are so predictable in their brainwashing, in their cognitive dissonance,
that you can literally plan to do that video. You can be like, hey, watch this, I'm going to go ask these people about this,
and here's how they're going to respond, and I'm going to have a funny video on it.
You can do it every time with these people. You can't trick conservatives like that.
They know what they're talking about. They've done their research. I mean, it's just incredible to me.
But what do we do? I mean, if they don't want to become informed, if they don't want to do research, I mean, I can't help them.
No, we just have to not let them have more power. That's the problem is we know we can't trust them.
Comey, either Comey or McCabe are lying. This is something that nobody wants to talk about on the left.
Either Comey lie about McCabe's media contacts or McCabe is lying.
So either, I mean, think about it, either the director or the deputy director of the FBI is a liar.
That should be a big story, and the media, they're not even talking about it.
They're talking about, oh, maybe Trump had a Diet Coke today.
Oh, what about Stormy Daniels?
Oh, but I'm going to give a third option there, Mike. Let's take this into consideration.
How about maybe they're both liars? Oh, wow. Maybe both of them are liars.
I think that is probably the odds-on favorite to win that deal.
Mike Cernovich is going to break it all down. The news on Comey on the other side of the break. Don't go anywhere.
The quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Cardivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use Cardivore by InfowarsLife.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with cell force from InfowarsLife.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's got all the minerals and vitamins and amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
It's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread the word.
And thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. Owen Schreuer filling in for Alex today.
Normally, I host the War Room from 3 to 6 p.m., but Alex has some work he's dealing with behind the scenes.
I'm sure you can imagine what it is.
And so I fill in today.
Mike Cernovich is my guest, and we were just talking about James Comey a little bit briefly getting into that.
You now have potential criminal investigations going on into James Comey with some of the Republican members of Congress pushing Jeff Sessions to begin a criminal investigation into Comey, into Clinton, into McCabe.
And Mike, you were breaking down in the last segment how when you do a cross-reference analysis of what McCabe says and what Comey says, one of them is dishonest.
One of them is lying. Why doesn't anybody talk about this?
I mean, Trump has a crooked toenail, and it's the main story, but the head of the FBI and number two at the FBI can't even get their story straight and the media doesn't want to touch it.
Well, yeah, we live in a bizarre world where the liberal, because if you go back, if you watch old clips of you or Alex, people can read my writing from 15 years ago.
I've always been distrustful of federal power, and now all of a sudden you have people who were, oh, yay, Ray Bradley-Valco, the rise of the Warrior Cop.
We really have to do something about all these federal SWAT teams kicking down doors.
Oh, yay! 10 members of the FBI SWAT team came in with machine guns and kicked down Paul Manafort's door at five in the morning, and the guy's wife could have got murdered.
Who knows what could happen? Oh, yeah, I can't believe it. Whoa, whoa, whoa, I love deep state.
So what we're seeing is that they, the left, they don't have principles.
They don't actually, they're not moored to any truth higher and above themselves.
I've even said, for example, and my own people don't like to hear it.
I've even said that what happened to those two African-American men in Starbucks and Philadelphia, I don't like that.
I don't like that at all. And I do think we should look into it and find out what was there because I have a principle.
The principle is that you need to treat people with dignity and kindness. You need to treat people equally, but the left, they don't have any principles.
But let's stay on this, this topic and kind of get into the psychology of it.
And let's use Donald Trump as a nexus.
Like you said, if you look at, you know, what Mike Sernovich talked about or wrote about, it's consistent with what he talks about and writes about today.
Same with Alex Jones.
But the odd thing to me is, and this is honestly like, it's a mystery to me, most of the quote unquote liberals or whatever that are, you know, the anti-Trump in the street,
just like us, I would say that they were even probably more closer allied to our beliefs than they are now and that all happened after the Trump nexus.
So they used to be on the same page of, you know, demilitarize the police, you know, too much police power, too much government power, government's corrupt, FBI's corrupt, no more foreign wars.
You know, we all were on the same page there. We were all kind of together. They might lump us up as conspiracy theorists or they have different terms they might call us.
But we were all on the same team and we kind of had in general the same ideas and beliefs, you know, separate thoughts here and there, different policy issues.
But overall, it was kind of the same, you know, don't trust government, don't trust the media, you know, the police are becoming militarized, the police state.
And then Trump happens and it's like they're a totally different breed. It's like everything in their mind changed. I mean, how do you even explain that?
Scott Adams actually does a great job of that in his book, When Bigly About Trump.
It is literally a psychological condition called cognitive dissonance. And of course, the original study on that involved actual literal cults.
The original research and cognitive dissonance involved an end of day's cult.
And the cult leader said, okay, everybody's going to die tonight. The world's going to end tonight. The world didn't end.
And then the cult members rather than say, oh, wow, I guess we were wrong.
Oh, okay, well, you know, we'll go learn from this.
What they said was, oh, we believe in him even more now.
Because to admit that they were wrong would be to admit that their own ego is flawed.
And the injury would be so much, do so much to them psychologically that they just couldn't do it.
So that's the same thing here.
And that's it though. And their cult leader is the mainstream news.
Correct. The mainstream news got this a great point actually.
Maybe that'll be my next article is the mainstream news said Trump was going to lose.
Okay, great. Okay, you said it. He was wrong.
So what should have happened and what would have happened if people were rational is they would have said, well, son of a gun.
I guess the media doesn't really know what they're talking about.
I need to go read books or watch someone else or listen to another podcast.
But no, rather than admit that, wait, I've spent decades of my life being told lies by the fake news media.
Oh crap, what does that say about me?
Dude, I don't want to go there.
I don't want to have a hard, because that's what you learn if you're Christian.
If you're Christian, you learn that you're a sinner.
And when you sin, you don't say, well, I mean, it wasn't really a sin that I did that.
No, you learn. Okay, that was a sin. You need to repent.
You need to confess. You need to live a better life.
So Christian conservatives are more protected against a lot of the cult-like behavior of the left,
because they're used to admitting that, hey, I did the wrong thing here.
I really need to be better in the future.
Whereas people who don't have any kind of religious belief, they just go, oh, well, the media couldn't have been wrong.
Something, something, something, Russia, Russia.
So that's it. That's actually, that's exactly it. And so they have this denial that they're in the cult.
So like they hate, they act like the Trump people are in the cult and everything, and they act like they hate that.
But really the ugliness is just their own denial that they're in a cult.
I mean, that's really what this comes down to.
Mike, I want to get your take on a story that's servicing here.
The media is now saying that Cohen is going to flip on Trump.
You know, they got Cohen, they illegally raided his place, his house, his hotel, his office, everything.
There's documents. I mean, imagine if somebody did that to Nancy Pelosi or Chuck Schumer, what we would find out.
But they're saying, Cohen is going to flip on Trump.
Well, I'm sitting here and I'm saying, well, that's a misnomer.
What do you mean flip on Trump? What is he going to turn over the whatever happened with Stormy Daniel?
I mean, flip on Trump. There's nothing to flip.
So when you see that story, what do you think?
Well, I see that the media, as usual, is preying on public ignorance of the legal system.
The attorney-client privilege belongs to the client.
So you can't just snitch on a client.
You can't just say, oh, you know, my client did X, Y.
It doesn't work that way.
The client is the one who decides if you're allowed to talk about the scope of the representation, what you found during representation.
So you have to get, you know, this in these articles, the media, they never actually quote any lawyers about the real law, right?
They never go, oh, hey, Michael.
Yeah, yeah, they don't want to quote Alan Dershowitz because he's actually against what they're doing.
Right. So they never, the same thing with the lawsuits against Alex and Infowars took to the credit.
The Daily Beast actually quoted a free speech lawyer and the free speech lawyer said, well, actually that might be anti-slapped.
This was, it looks like this lawsuit is actually political stuff.
And I was like, holy cow, since when it was like the first time I read an article about a lawsuit where they actually quoted a free speech lawyer.
And there's a reason they don't quote the free speech lawyer because if you actually do talk to a free speech lawyer, they're going to tell you, well, no, no, wait a minute,
if you sue someone and it's just a publicity stunt, then you might actually have to pay that person's legal fees because that's called the strategic lawsuit against public law.
The strategic lawsuit against public participation in Texas like California where I live has what's known as an anti-slapped law.
That means that if you want to file a strategic lawsuit against public participation, then you're going to have consequences for that.
So they, I was like, wait a minute, since when do you actually interview an actual lawyer about this stuff?
Well, that's why they never want to talk to lawyers because a real lawyer will tell you, this is why I've never sued anybody for defamation,
even though people lie about me, edit videos.
It's so hard to win that suit, to prove damages.
Yeah, not only is it almost impossible to win, but you might end up having to pay the other side's legal fees if they conclude that you were really just trying to silence and show free speech.
And just to be clear too, because some of the audience isn't aware of this, Alex is filing the anti-slapped.
So Alex is fighting back against this.
Mike Cernovich is going to stick around with us for one more segment, but folks, we are able to withstand these attacks because of your support at infowarstore.com.
Now, I've got a bit of a raspy voice today.
I was screaming at a rock concert last night.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take my super blue silver immune gargle and I'm going to spray some of that beautiful colloidal silver with that nace night eye on my throat.
It's going to heal it right up.
Here we go. It's a little good taste there too.
A little piney.
So there you go.
Super blue.
Oh, it already feels better.
You can already hear the difference.
Super blue silver immune gargle at infowarstore.com.
It's on sale right now.
And just like Mike was talking about, when you file these things, it's a painstaking process and it's not cheap.
And we'd rather not have to do it, but we have to because they don't stop attacking us.
So your support at infowarstore.com makes it all possible.
50% off super male vitality.
All kinds of specials at infowarstore.com.
We've got toothpaste.
We've got shampoo.
Household items.
You need toothpaste.
Shop at infowarstore.com.
We'll be right back.
The reason InfoWars Live has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this.
My family takes this.
And then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference.
I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my super female.
I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good.
And I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously a super female is amazing.
I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2.
If there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine.
Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five star rating.
It's a win-win at infowarslife.com.
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia
to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding.
Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show, final segment with Mike Cernovich.
And we're talking legal stuff with Mike right now and I want to get his take on what he would do if he was Michael Cohen.
Because, you know, Trump is obviously the final target here.
Trump is the target. Trump is the enemy that they're trying to take down.
They're just going to all these other conduits to try to get people to quote unquote flip.
Mike, I mean, it seems like it's clearly unconstitutional this raid on Cohen's house, his office, his hotel.
I mean, what would you do if you were Michael Cohen?
I mean, this is such an abuse of power by Mueller sending the FBI in there.
I mean, what are Cohen's options?
Or do they just sit and wait and build a case?
Well, we actually, there's some breaking news right now that Inspector General has sent a criminal referral of Andrew McCabe to U.S. Attorney.
And this story just hit if the crew can go to my Twitter timeline and just retweet it.
So you and I, maybe we made it happen because, you know, we were just talking about how either Comey lied or McCabe lied, had me one or the other.
But now breaking news and again, it's coming from CNN.
So we would never want to stake our reputations on a CNN report.
But according to CNN, the Justice Department's Inspector General has set a criminal referral regarding former FBI Director Andrew McCabe to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Washington.
According to a source.
Wow. This is a blockbuster.
Oh, and this is massive.
But see, but this is why they're panicking, Mike.
You know, as well as I, they've got a, I mean, look, if they conducted the same raid on a Comey or a Clinton or a McCabe or a Rosenstein that they did on Cohen, these people will be locked up for life with the evidence they could get.
I mean, it's just insane.
So does, does, does Cohen just kind of sit back and wait for all of their corruption to be exposed before he acts?
Well, I actually, I read an interesting thing on Twitter, because I have, I did buy Comey's book also.
When the, when they found out that Pedophile Wiener had access to classified emails, the FBI actually, rather than getting a warrant and seizing Hillary Clinton's private servers, what they actually did was said, oh, can we just work with your lawyers on this so that, you know, we don't breach attorney client privilege.
So when it came to Hillary Clinton, they really, really, really cared a lot about the attorney client privilege.
So you're right.
Deborah Wasserman Schultz and the A1 Brothers, every email sent to or from a congressional member is now in the hands of potentially terrorists in Pakistan because of the Debbie Wasserman Schultz scandal.
But they didn't take her email, but they go after Cohen for allegedly, you know, paying off some kind of porn star.
But this shows how shook they are.
And this is a really, really, really big development here.
So what do you think happens then?
I mean, what do you think, what are the tea leaves that Mike Cernovich sees right now with, with McCabe and Comey now in the legal crosshairs?
Well, I mean, there's a reason McCabe raised $500,000, right?
Remember that GoFundMe?
Yeah, and he was even still getting a pension too.
Yeah, he'll get his pension when he's 57.
He just doesn't get it when he's 50.
Oh, poor, poor baby.
You don't get, you don't get a lifetime pension at 50 years old.
Yeah, you're a corrupt, you're a corrupt scumbag in a bureaucracy and you don't get your pension.
Oh, I'm so, I'm so upset.
Well, imagine, think about the people who work for a living.
I mean, I'm not going to get a pension at 50.
Maybe when I'm like 80 or something, I'll be able to retire, but yeah, that's what I like.
But he knew that he did something bad and that's why they held that GoFundMe early on when everybody thought he was a victim.
So here's my question.
Then I'm just asking questions, you know, then he and I don't care.
McCabe's lawyers can threaten to sue me out and I slapped them the next Tuesday.
Did McCabe raise that money in bad faith because he knew he was facing criminal peril and he didn't disclose that to his people?
Oh, was McCabe possibly fundraising for legal fees?
And then think about the nitwits that actually gave him money.
How dumb are they going to feel when McCabe goes under?
Unbelievable.
Sernovich, great stuff as usual, follow him at Sernovich Media.
On the other side, we're going to be joined by the individual that went into Starbucks who got a free coffee because he's black.
I'm so excited.
The new product at M4WarsLife.com.
In a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people a hundred, two hundred dollars for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Now available at M4WarsStore.com and your purchase of Fuzzy Operation.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
The individual you're filling in for Alex Jones here and I am now joined by Hotep Jesus and he was the individual that went into Starbucks and requested a coffee.
Just had to say racism and he got a free coffee.
Boy, it's amazing.
The liberal nonsense never stops providing opportunities for content.
So Hotep Jesus joins me now.
What was your motivation or your idea?
How did this idea come to you when you decided to walk into Starbucks and say, hey, give me a coffee or you're racist?
Did you expect them to give you the coffee and what made you think of that?
There was not a single doubt in my mind that I was going to get that call.
Not a single doubt.
You know, I understand liberal politics.
Been studying it for a while now and understand that.
And I've tweeted this before I said, if an individual, especially a black individual wants to excel in this society, they should follow the liberal narrative and all doors and opportunities will be open to them.
And I knew it would work.
I knew it would work.
So I decided, you know, I said, you know what?
I'm standing here by the Starbucks.
I had this idea in my mind.
I said, let's test this thing out and see what happens.
The video started to go viral and periscope and now here we are.
Well, and it's such a brilliant idea because not only does it just show you how the average individual will just totally back down.
It's like, oh, I don't want to be a racist here.
Have a coffee.
Have a coffee.
But then also you expose how predictable they are.
I mean, that's the most incredible thing about it.
I loved your face when I asked you.
I was like, did you expect to hear that coffee?
Are you kidding me?
I could have walked out of there and owned that Starbucks.
I actually think that I could continue to do this every day of the week as long as this story is relevant.
I do believe that I could walk into another Starbucks and get a coffee.
Now, are you planning on doing that?
I mean, I don't want to out your plans.
They're not going to listen anyway.
They won't even know.
But I mean, are you going to, are you thinking about doing that?
If I happen to be near a Starbucks, I absolutely will do it again.
I'm not going to go out of my way to do it.
But if I'm near one, yes, you better believe it.
Hey, you know what?
I mean, why stop at a coffee?
I mean, maybe they'll give you a cookie too.
I mean, what else they got?
What else can they give you?
I could go for a chocolate chip cookie.
There you go.
Yeah.
And it better not be.
And if they give you a white chocolate chip cookie, I mean, that now you're talking lawsuit.
Now that's racist.
Exactly.
Exactly.
No, but it's crazy because so I don't even know.
So the original story, though, that started this whole Starbucks thing, which then you
hijacked into the matrix and then stole that energy for yourself and made the viral video.
Exactly.
I mean, the whole thing is just so insane to begin with to me.
I mean, I'm sure that you could probably find an event like this almost daily where someone's
loitering in a coffee shop or something and they get asked to leave.
I had a Brandon Tatum on with me the other day.
He said it when he was a police officer that he had to do stuff like this all the time.
People, hey, you got to go.
You're not, you're not, you know, buying anything here.
You got to go.
Same thing with the parking lot.
Some parking lots say unless you're shopping here, you can't park here.
It's the same deal.
But they make a whole issue of it because they make it a race thing.
It's just it always comes down to just avoid the actual subject, which would be is this
guy loitering legally or is he shopping?
And then just because it always just turns into a race thing with these people.
Yeah, I don't, I don't know.
You know, so this thing is pretty sticky, right?
So do we know the name of the person that called the cops?
I couldn't tell you the name.
I assume it was the Starbucks.
The report say it was the Starbucks that they called the cops.
Yeah.
So it's funny that this lady calls the cops.
I think she's terminated now, but we don't know her name.
We don't have her picture.
Why is that?
It looks like some mysterious lady, but we have these black gentlemen.
We know who they are.
Yeah, you know what?
Oh my gosh, that's actually really interesting because you would think if it was a white
lady, they'd plaster her picture everywhere.
What was her nationality?
What is her race?
I have no idea.
That's funny how we don't care.
I'm going to assume it's a white woman because if it was a black woman, I'm sure the picture
would have been up there.
And let me just say this too.
We may not, I hate the whole race baiting thing.
Granted, but as a black man, if I know an establishment is calling the cops, because
I'm a black man, I'm getting the hell out of there.
I would not have been arrested.
I'm like, oh, they're calling the cops for loitering.
All right, we'll stand outside.
So, you know, that's my only gripe with these gentlemen.
Like why were they so stubborn?
If they were aware that the cops were being called, why were they so stubborn to stay
there?
Were they like trying to exercise their rights?
Did they feel like they're being racial profiled?
Because at the end of the day, you can't loiter.
Like I can give that to you.
You can't loiter.
But as a black man, I do expect to be arrested.
Well, and I got to say too, it almost makes me question whether this wasn't some sort
of a setup or some sort of a publicity stunt where they scheduled, they plan the whole
thing and they say, yeah, call the cops and then we'll get arrested and it'll become a
media story.
Yeah, like why wouldn't you just leave?
And the lady that called the cops a Starbucks worker was actually an Asian lady.
So I guess they just didn't want to touch that or whatever.
But I'm surprised they didn't say, you know, she's a big racist.
This is Black Lives Matter's fault.
This is the same thing that happened to Sandra Bland, right?
They put the battery in these people's back.
And whenever something pops up, the first thing they say is race.
They don't look at it agnostically or objectively and say, am I in the wrong here?
They just immediately decide to rebel.
When Sandra Bland was pulled over, she was going to walk away with a warning.
But she had the cigarette in her hand.
She didn't want to put it out.
She was being disobedient.
And this is, I don't blame Sandra Bland.
RIP to that beautiful young lady.
She was actually a hotel.
And after that incident, she was attacked by Black Lives Matter, which I hate it.
But the truth of the matter is, it's Black Lives Matter's fault
for making Black people think everything is about race.
And it's not the case.
What we have to do is go ahead.
And I think that it also creates this victim mentality
where they approach every situation as a victim.
And so they think they're righteously, you know, in the right because they're a victim.
And they don't understand, that's not what people are looking at the situation like.
You know, they're looking at this, not, oh, you're a Black man loitering.
They're saying, hey, you're not shopping here.
We have paying customers.
You got to go.
Yeah, I mean, it's Philadelphia, right?
We all know Philly.
Philly isn't, you know, the safest city I should say.
I don't know if there were previous incidents of crackheads or dope addicts, you know, loitering.
We don't know, right?
So this could have been premeditated, right?
This person could have dealt with this on an ongoing basis.
And this is just how they handle it.
But me as Hotep Jesus, when I walk into an establishment and I'm going to stay there for a while,
I'm going to purchase something.
I don't understand why they decided they were above purchasing a muffin or coffee.
And I don't want to sound like I'm attacking them.
I just don't understand the thought process.
Well, and I think it goes back to what you were saying earlier and you want to, you know, put the spotlight on Black Lives Matter.
Maybe this is a thing where they make them feel entitled.
So it's like Black Lives Matter now, oh, you're a victim, so you're entitled.
And so they feel like they're entitled to sit here and not patronize the business.
And then they get arrested and it becomes a national issue because they want to make it a race thing.
But my guess is, and I'll ask you, if it was two white individuals that went in there and loitered and got arrested, do you think it would be a national story?
No, absolutely not.
This thing wouldn't have gotten past the local newspaper.
Probably wouldn't even have made it in that.
The hot thing right now is race.
If you take a Black man and you can paint it as racism, that's national news.
The media is going to make paper, serious paper off of that.
And I've been calling this out since 2014.
That Black people are being used by the media for clicks and ad money.
And Black people are volunteering for it.
What they don't realize is Black people are portraying themselves as weaklings across the entire globe.
This is not power.
Poteb is power.
We would never portray ourselves as weaklings or victims.
And I don't like it.
But again, it just shows you the mindset where they feel like in the right, like, oh yeah, this should have been a national story.
Yeah.
And then Starbucks, they're going to close down thousands of stores, bring in Eric Holder to do some racial bias training at Starbucks.
I mean, it's a liberal company, and they don't even know what they're doing.
I mean, the whole thing is madness.
And you know what, hold that thought, Poteb Jesus is with us, he's going to stick with us for another segment.
I don't know.
You know what, Starbucks should just shut down.
Starbucks is the KKK.
I mean, Starbucks is the KKK.
Shut them down.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands, and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement, and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX, or my website, danpilla.com.
My blood pressure has normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
After being sold out for months, our best-selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock at m4store.com.
The first shipment of super blue sold out in one week.
I thought it would be a six-month supply for listeners.
And since then, people are beating down our doors, wanting to be able to resupply their super blue.
Research across the board is clear.
In fact, it's certified.
When bacteria infect your gums, it can enter your bloodstream, and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks.
That's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula.
It's loaded with good halogen iodine, so the bad halogen fluoride.
Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in super blue, chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodine, nano silver, and more.
Learn more about InfoWarsLife super blue toothpaste at InfoWarsLife.com
and support the InfoWars while you support healthy gums and teeth.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido,
workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it,
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured, you're finding the InfoWar so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
So after some further research into the subject matter and further consideration into the series of events,
I now have a new theory about what happened at the Starbucks in Philadelphia.
So apparently there was a black woman that worked there, and then when Holly Hilton, a white lady, not Asian,
I'm going to correct that record in a minute here to explain, but Holly Hilton was the manager of the Starbucks that called the police that eventually led to the arrest of those black men.
Well, there was a black lady, Leisha Cash, who worked there, who was essentially saying that Hilton was racist and cut her pay and eventually was trying to squeeze her out.
I mean, it's like, so did she know those black individuals?
How about that for a question?
Did Cash know the black individuals that went into that Starbucks and then created the national news story so that they could tell you that this lady was a racist?
Meanwhile, on the other side of the country, in Torrance, California, you had a white man get kicked out of a Starbucks for not paying and using the bathroom,
and that was only discovered because there was a black man in the store, not an employee, just recording him harassing the white guy,
and then he got kicked out by the Asian lady who ran the Starbucks.
So you had it happen in California, but the white guy left, so he didn't get arrested, and then it happens in Philadelphia, the black guys don't leave, so they get arrested,
and then I ask, did they know Cash, who was a disgruntled employee from before?
But here's the other thing about this.
To say that this woman that works at Starbucks is racist, I mean, I don't know, but I feel like you can't work in the service industry and be racist.
You have to deal with people from every walk of life that come in and shop, so you can't really, I mean, it just doesn't really make sense.
But I don't know, I mean, just considering all the different angles here, I'm starting to think more and more that this thing was like some sort of staged publicity stunt,
and then they might not even have known the type of coverage it was going to get, they might have thought they could just kind of keep it local there and then it got all this attention.
I mean, this whole thing just gets weirder and weirder to me.
Hotep Jesus was the man.
And his website, booksbybrian.com, also HotepNation.com, those are his websites.
So he got the brilliant idea to go into his Starbucks and demand a coffee, otherwise they're racist.
He's going to go get a free chocolate chip cookie after the show, and then his video goes viral.
So there's, he got your Starbucks mug right there.
Was that a free Joe?
That was your-
This was the free Joe.
Now that-
That was the free Joe.
So we need to get that cup, then put that cup in a glass case and save it for all eternity.
There it is right there.
Oh, they even put your name on there.
That's a great picture.
You know what I have a problem with, man?
With Starbucks.
I wasn't mad at Starbucks at first, but now I'm mad at Starbucks for this racial bias training.
And I'm going to tell you why.
First of all, what does Eric Holder know about black people?
What does the NAACP or the ADL know about black people?
The black people really suck one in the hood.
You see, black lives matter, NAACP and Eric Holder are not the voice of black people.
That is the bourgeoisie that keep black people down.
And Starbucks failed.
They failed.
They really wanted to do some racial, so-called bias training.
They would have got some real people in the real world and not these bootlickers and Uncle Tom's.
That's what they would have done, but they don't care about black people.
Well, what does this even mean?
I mean, what is racial bias training?
So basically, they're insinuating just by doing the racial bias training that all their employees are racist.
Otherwise, what are you doing?
Racial bias training is their PR attempt to save face.
Nothing more, nothing less.
But what are they going to do, though?
I mean, that's the thing.
I agree with you completely.
What are they going to do?
I'm going to tell you what they're going to do.
They're going to go in there.
They're going to push black lives matter, LGBT agenda onto those people, right?
And they're going to try and give black people a certain privilege, I guess, at Starbucks.
But really, what's going to happen is it's like walking into a brainwashed tank.
And they're going to brainwash these people with liberal politics.
No logic will be held in this meeting.
You are so correct.
I guarantee you, that is so spot on.
I guarantee you they immediately start pushing the black lives matter propaganda.
In fact, I bet you black lives matter ends up running this sensitivity training.
Yeah, they're going to hand out black lives matter paraphernalia.
People will be signed up to plan parenthood email lists.
I can't stand that organization.
They kill more black people than anybody.
They're going to give them feminist propaganda.
They're probably going to invite them to the damn slut walk next year.
I think the crew just suggested that they should now change their uniform to black lives matter t-shirts.
What do you think about that?
They might as well, because that's what it's going to turn into.
But it's funny.
Now, pull up his tweet.
Now, you got the free coffee.
There it is right there.
That is a legendary cup of coffee right there.
Hotep Jesus.
It's on the thing.
He got it for free.
And you had the brilliant tweet, my black privilege got me a free coffee.
Honestly, I just can't believe how insane these people are that we deal with.
That's the craziest thing to me is that they are so obsessed with identity politics.
And they're so obsessed at proving to everyone that they're not racist or not this or that or the other thing.
They can't even just live a normal life.
They can't just have normal social interaction.
Because liberals are the real racists of this country.
Don't forget, it was the Democratic Party that was behind slavery.
They did not want to buy us slavery.
It was the Republican, the Whig Party that was opposed to slavery.
Wow.
You know what?
Hold on, Hotep Jesus.
You need to go to some sensitivity training.
You need to go to the Starbucks sensitivity training because you cannot say things like this.
No, no, no.
Are you serious?
I mean, liberals are what we call undercover racists.
I'd rather you give me a blatant racist that calls me an n-word to my face than to give me a Hillary Clinton who had slaves.
You can go Google that article or duck, duck, go that article who had slaves and calls you an n-word behind your back.
Or Hillary Clinton, she changes her cadence of her voice when she thinks she's talking to black people.
This just happened again like last week.
She's speaking normally and then she's bringing on a black guest and all of a sudden she goes into her southern draw again.
And you're like, wow, this woman is actually so out of her mind now.
She's changing her voice in real time in front of hundreds of people just to cater to a black audience.
You know who needs racial bias training? Liberals.
That's who needs racial bias training.
You know what racial bias training would be? Taking people like Hillary Clinton and making them live in the hoods for a year straight.
That's racial bias training.
Yeah, or just getting any understanding.
I mean, that's what I'm saying. It's all hearsay with them.
They don't care what black people are dealing with or aren't dealing with.
They don't know what it's like in an inner city school. They don't have a clue.
They just sit here and they just project like they care.
Exactly. It's fake care. It's covert racism.
I hate it. HotepNation is against it all.
This is why you see us, you know, people get mad at me and say, oh, you have all these bright-winged people that are following you.
Yeah, well, guess what? I'm teen conservative because liberals are disgusting.
HotepNation.com, the Hall of Fame free coffee for a black man.
HotepNation.com, the Hall of Fame free coffee for a black man.
HotepNation.com, the Hall of Fame free coffee for a black man.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest assured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones Show and now your host, Owen Shroyer.
I've been bamboozled, folks. I've been had. I was told by Alex Jones that he was working hard, fighting for infowars, but CNN got the leaked photo.
Alex Jones is actually hanging out chilling at his house and CNN leaked the photo. Guys show it. There it is.
So I was bamboozled. I was told I was filling in for Alex because he was busy working, but there he is lounging in his luxurious home, just lounging.
And CNN got the photo and leaked it. So unbelievable journalism by CNN to get into Alex Jones' house and get this graphic image of Jones lounging while I'm covering the news on air.
I mean, just unbelievable stuff. So there it is. Alex Jones lounging at home on a Thursday. You know, I mean, they're trying to sue us into oblivion, but there's Alex just chilling out.
Now that is funny. All right. Here's the deal, though. We are under massive attack. They are trying to bring us down with these lawsuits.
We're fighting back. You're fighting back by supporting us at infowarsstore.com. Now, Kit Daniels is working relentlessly today, pumping out news stories like a water geyser, flashback, McCabe threatened to take everyone down with him if charged.
Uh oh. I was saying I thought it was going to be Comey that was going to be singing like a canary. But maybe it's going to be McCabe. McCabe likely faces charges may take Comey down with him.
So wait, you know what? Okay, okay. So here's what I'm going to do. Let me, let me just go through all of the Comey news because it's kind of been a, it's kind of a cyclical thing today.
So here we go. All right. So we talked to Laura Loomer. Comey's on his book tour. The higher loyalty, his higher loyalty was to the Clintons, not to the United States, not to the Republic.
It was his higher loyalty to the Clintons. So he let Hillary Clinton get away with massive crimes. And then they try to cover the whole thing up and act like it's not going on by demonizing Trump, attacking Trump.
And he goes on this big book tour. He goes on the Stephen Colbert. He goes on the view. He does all the whole tour, all the nine yards. There he is right there.
It's possible that James Comey eats carrots after he removes them from his rectum. It's possible. I'm just saying, I don't know.
I'm not reporting that he does that. I'm just saying it's possible. You know, after all, that's what Comey says. It's possible. Trump got urinated on by Russian hookers.
Well, it's possible that James Comey likes to stick a carrot up his rectum and eat it for lunch. But it's possible. I don't know.
So he's on his, he's on his book tour. It's a failing book tour already. He got like some million dollar advance for it.
But here's the news. Dirty Cop Comey was only taking pre-screened, I did that twice today, pre-screened questions at first book signing event in New York City.
Yeah, the whole thing is fake. Comey's fake. The whole thing's scripted. These people are the biggest phonies in the world. James Comey, the phony.
Lion James Comey. Lawmaker Comey lied to Congress suggests new evidence. Again, that's Kit Daniels at infowars.com. The story is there. X FBI director James Comey may actually face prosecution due to the growing evidence suggesting he lied to Congress and dabbled in corruption according to a lawmaker.
And now you have these investigations going on. It's all being exposed. He privatized himself.
Then you have this from Fox News. GOP representatives refer Comey Clinton McCabe for criminal investigation.
Oh, hey, now McCabe is in there as well. And so then it becomes full circle and Kit Daniels goes into the time machine and reminds you, and the stories at infowars.com, McCabe threatened to take everyone down with him if charged.
Bingo, bongo, boingo. There is the target. Mass systems fire.
Okay, well, you've got. You know what, Jeff Sessions, why don't you get off your damn ass? What is Jeff Sessions doing?
Oh, I mean, I can't even. I mean, the guy is like, where is he? MIA. Earth to Sessions. Earth to Sessions.
Like, do we need to send out like a search squad? I mean, where is Jeff Sessions? What is he doing?
So Sessions, here's the deal, Sessions. I don't know what your deal is. I don't know if you're blackmailed. I don't know if you're compromised.
I don't know if you're a wuss. I don't know if you're working behind the scenes with all this stuff.
But if you want to be the greatest attorney general in the history of the United States, if you want to go down as a legend,
if you want the name Jeff Sessions to be legend for humankind, to be legend for justice, to be legend for America,
you will bring these people to justice. And you just found target number one, Andrew McCabe. He's told you he will sing like a canary.
Get him into questioning. Earth to Sessions. Earth to Sessions. I need to send out like a sonar beam or something.
Where is Jeff Sessions? You've got a stack of suggestions sitting on your desk to do your damn job.
What are you doing, Jeff Sessions? What is the Keeble Ralph doing?
But here you go. Oh, Mr. McCabe, Andrew McCabe.
But think about it. There's got to be at least one person of this whole criminal cabal that is willing to sell them all down the drain for their own skin.
Of course there is. Of course one of these scumbags is going to try to save their own hide by selling the rest of them down the drain.
I mean, folks, if you bring in Hillary Clinton, you just reeled in a 5,000 pound fish. You just reeled in a 10,000 ton whale.
That's what Hillary Clinton is, the biggest criminal, maybe on Earth, maybe in the history of Earth. I don't know. I can't get a damn investigation into the crook.
So Sessions, Earth to Sessions, paging Jeff Sessions.
So they're suggesting you start a criminal investigation in Clinton, Comey, and McCabe. McCabe says he's going to sing.
And isn't this an admittance of guilt? What do you mean? I will take everyone down if I'm charged.
That's an admittance of guilt. That's admitting that there's something to take you down. That's admitting that there's a whole criminal cabal that you could bring down.
And Sessions is buried in a hole. Okay. All right. Have I screamed enough about that?
Ugh. You know, I mean, it's just such a joke. Everybody knows Hillary Clinton is a crook. Everybody knows James Comey's a liar.
Apparently, except Jeff Sessions. You know what, though? Patients have hurt you. And God will provide. And they're going down.
And maybe they get to live out their life on Earth here for as long as they can, but they're going to burn.
They're going to face justice when it's all said and done, folks. But McCabe, he'll take them all down. He basically admits it.
And I mean, that is the face of scum. I don't know. Like I said, it's possible James Comey eats carrots from his rectum.
I don't know it. I'm not telling you he does. I'm just saying I don't know. That's all I'm saying. That is one of the creepiest mugs.
All right. You know what? I'm going to do a news blitz on the other side, folks, but as you can hear, my voice is going.
So I've been hitting the lung cleanse. I've been hitting the super silver immune gargle here, trying to maintain my voice.
And it's actually working. You can tell it should be gone by now if it wasn't for the super silver immune gargle.
But we've got huge specials at infowarstore.com. How about 50% off? Super male vitality.
This is one of the most popular products on our website. Great reviews. We don't need to sell it at 50% off.
But we do because we want you to get a good deal. And then we trust we have faith in our products that you're going to try super male vitality for 50% off.
You're going to love it. And then you're going to become a repeat customer. See, that's our game plan.
That's our game plan is to sell you the best product at the cheapest price and then get you to be a return customer.
But you know what? That's fine. Let's say you don't like all these supplements. You're not a supplement person.
Well, you use toothpaste, don't you? Go to infowarstore.com and get five tubes of super blue toothpaste, the best toothpaste on the planet.
Go to infowarstore.com, get the Emirates Essentials natural shampoo. Everybody washes their hair, shop with the good guys.
infowarstore.com, fund us and we will defeat the globalists.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the infowar's life products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by infowar's life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber.
A mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowar's life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowar'slife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back. It's MycoZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed to your contract with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability, but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39, 50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient, MycoZX.
Now it's the other side of the equation. Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because of toxins in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts of serious issues.
Well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late. Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX plus now from the InfoWars store.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an InfoWars life. It'd take hours.
MycoZX plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
The Alex Jones Show. And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
Do liberals like rock and roll? I'm just trying to find one thing that I could possibly have in common with these people.
I mean, they hate freedom. They hate free speech. They hate guns. They hate America.
Do we at least like rock and roll? I mean, can we at least go enjoy a rock show?
Or do you hate that too? Because that's Americana shredding a guitar.
So John Rapport is going to take over in the fourth hour. I'm just going to do a news bliss here.
It may not have any rhyme or reason to it because I just got these stacks of news all out of control here.
But let me just quickly recap the stuff we have talked about.
Oh, I didn't even get into this stack either. Oh my God, I got another stack over here.
So the big news that is developing right now, and you can monitor the situation at infowars.com,
is that you now have Republican members of Congress, and the Democrats should be on this too, but they're all about taking down Trump.
So the Republican members of Congress have put the documents on Jeff Sessions' desk to begin a criminal investigation of Comey, McCabe, and Clinton.
McCabe says if he goes down, he's going to take the whole crime syndicate down. And where is Sessions?
And the joke is he's gearing up for tomorrow's big holiday.
Reefer madness with the Kebler Elf.
So then you've got more evidence coming out, more reports coming out that the chemical attack in Syria was a false flag.
More politicians, more war veterans, you know, intelligence people.
Yeah, total false flag. You even got the video of the kid that was allegedly in the chemical attack, and his father that were allegedly there.
And they came out and they did an interview saying, nope, didn't happen, didn't see it.
They can't even make up the mind. Was it chlorine? Was it sarin?
Well, based on the narrative, they would say it's sarin, but it can't be sarin, because if it was sarin,
the people that are treating the people wouldn't have been able to breathe the air either.
And then a CNN reporter goes and puts her head in a backpack that is allegedly covered in sarin gas and then lives to report on it.
I just can't even believe it, man.
It just shows you how pathetic these people are, because I've been in political media for maybe five years now.
Boston Marathon bombing happened, what, 2013, April 2013?
I didn't care about politics, never followed politics, didn't even know a damn thing about politics.
I knew, I studied history, I knew about the Constitution, I knew all that, but as far as news and current events and politics,
I didn't care, I didn't care to watch it.
But now, it takes me five years, it took me five years to be better than anyone CNN could ever put on air.
I'm not bragging, that's like being the tallest midget or something.
It's just amazing how pathetic these people are, that they would go sniff a backpack they think is covered in sarin gas.
I can't get over this.
Alright, that's fine.
So then they push this new narrative that Cohen is going to flip on Trump, which doesn't even make sense.
There's this thing called attorney-client privilege.
And then you can't flip, there's nothing to flip, it's just a misnomer to act like there's something to flip.
There is nothing to flip.
You guys are flipping crazy.
HR McMaster's father's death labeled suspicious and is being investigated.
Okay, I don't know what the deal with that is, but there you go.
Oh, Nikki Haley.
You know what?
I'm not a big fan of the warmonger Nikki Haley, John McCain and drag.
So I'm just going to say this.
Seriously, she just has an air of arrogance and evil.
That's just my opinion.
But let me just ask you this, and I'll move on.
As the ambassador to the United States, Nikki Haley, what has she accomplished?
Has Nikki Haley, what would you say?
Has Nikki Haley been responsible for more bombings?
Or has Nikki Haley been responsible for more peace treaties?
How many peace treaties has Nikki Haley negotiated?
How many bombings has Nikki Haley negotiated?
Oh, well, she just had another one in Syria.
She blamed Assad before it even happened.
So Nikki Haley is a warmonger who has a much stronger resume for bombing people than for peace treaties.
Great ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley.
China stages last minute live fire drill in show of support for Russia.
Paul Joseph Watson at infowars.com. So China is doing live fire drills in the sea.
You've got the South China Sea military issue going on.
They're building islands out there.
Thousands of US troops amass on Syrian border for military drills.
So now the US continues to maintain its presence over there in Syria.
And now they're doing drills.
So that's not good news.
McCabe threatens to bring everyone down if he is charged.
And of course, the Congress is now begging sessions to do his job and investigate these crooks.
He's hiding in the Kiebler Elf tree.
Russian-American flight connection could be severed as US reduces visa issuance.
So now the US is basically stopping issuing visas to Russians.
They're stopping Russian pilots.
They don't want us to get along with Russia.
You know, Russia is the bad guy, so we can't get along with Russia,
even though Russia is nationalist and they like guns and Christianity and stuff.
So, you know, they're the bad guy.
The liberals really expose themselves by celebrating Barbara Bush's death.
You know, I mean, I'm not going to sit here and act like I'm some fan of Barbara Bush,
but you just don't dance on the debt.
I mean, especially professors and media members.
I mean, that's just shows you how crazy they are.
New York Governor Cuomo grants 35,000 paroled felons the right to vote.
Why do you think he did that, folks?
Because the Democrats are freaking out they might lose in New York
and they're trying to do everything they possibly can to get more votes.
So whether it be non-citizens voting or now felons voting,
that's what Cuomo is going to do to try to stay in office,
because he can't stay in office based on his merit.
I mean, the guy's a total scum.
Hog angers Holocaust survivors.
This is a tension hog.
By publishing a book, hashtag never again.
Oh my God, never again.
David Hog, the camera hog.
How about never again a false flag leading us into war?
How about that?
How about never again a million babies aborted in the United States?
How about that?
How about that for a never again?
No, David Hog, you are a Democrat pawn.
Man jailed for life after deliberately infecting men with HIV.
So you get jailed for life for that.
I think this story is out of England.
Journalists don't even tell you where these stories are anymore.
It's such a joke.
Do people even go to class?
So I have no idea where this story happened,
but I know it didn't happen in California,
because in California you can go infect a thousand people with AIDS,
and it's legal now.
It's all good.
This is insane.
Kid Daniels again.
Outrage over New York City,
shipping human extra-ment to small towns.
Folks, the trash problem in New York City is such a problem.
If you haven't been to New York City,
if you're walking around in New York City,
there's literally trash in the streets,
because they can't put it anywhere.
They don't have alleys.
The dumpsters are all full.
So they literally just put their trash in the streets.
And now there's so much human extra-ment.
They don't know what to do with it.
They literally loaded up onto trains,
and they call it a poop train,
and then they dump it in Middle America.
Isn't that just a perfect representation of how liberals
that flock to these cities like New York and LA
destroy them and then dump all of their,
you know what, on Middle America?
I mean, that's what they do.
Liberals, coastal liberal elites who live on the coast
literally just dump their, you know what, on Middle America.
That's what they do.
Heidi Ho!
Heidi Ho!
Heidi Ho, Middle America!
Here comes the poop train!
Ha!
You remember that migrant caravan
that comes here every year that got stopped?
Well, they're going to keep coming.
And remnants of it, the ones that decided to keep going,
are still going to try to cross the border,
said to be about 500 of them.
And where is Jeff Sessions?
Nobody knows.
Nobody knows, nobody knows.
Americans waste 150,000 tons of food per day.
You know, this is actually something I learned
that in China, if you don't finish the food on your plate,
you're like a jerk.
Like, you're really like, you're like, what?
Like, it's the most rude thing you can do
to leave food on your plate.
Maybe that's something people in America
should start considering, because this is, I mean,
this is bad.
I mean, the amount of food that we throw away,
considering how many people go starving every day,
I mean, oh, but I guess, oh, well, you know,
conservatives can't talk about that.
No, no, no, no, no.
Oil top $68 for the first time in more than three years
as U.S. crude stockpiles fall.
Oil sores 2.9% to three-year high.
I'm wondering if this has anything to do with Rex Tillerson
and his removal from the Trump administration.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Just throwing it out there.
Human mouse hybrid.
Scientists grow human brain in tiny rodent.
That's from the Express published today.
Infowars told you they were doing that years ago.
Where's our Pulitzer Prize?
Hyper-realistic robot that is indistinguishable
from humans, startles punters at a London pub.
And then you've got the facial replication technology
where you can take anyone's face and then say something,
and then it looks like they're saying it.
This is the next fake news attack
is using these technological weapons.
John Rapport takes over in the fourth hour.
We'll be right back.
We have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family,
and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be
thanks to your support and your prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies.
With Z-Field and in FullWarsLife.com.
This is a live probiotic culture
of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable
fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting edge,
top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes
at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here,
is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
If you want to purchase it, then FullWarsLife.com.
You know, you are also financing the attack on the globalist
defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Final hour here of the Alex Jones show
and the Jedi master John Rappaport
is warming up and ready to go
and he takes over on the other side.
And I will depart.
I want to again remind this massive audience
that on Friday during the war room,
which I host from 3 to 6 p.m. Central here at Infowars,
I am doing a WikiLeaks special.
So we're doing a call-in special on Friday.
You call in to the show with your favorite WikiLeaks content.
Podesta emails, DNC emails,
old Bush administration war stuff, the Vault 7 release.
Anything from WikiLeaks, what is your favorite?
What do you think is the biggest thing to come from WikiLeaks?
What do you think is the craziest thing?
What do you think is the most exposing thing?
I'm doing this on Friday on the war room.
A call-in WikiLeaks special.
Because that's what they're scared of, folks.
That's the truth.
That is the razor's edge of reality,
the WikiLeaks content that they hate.
It is like sunlight to a vampire.
So we're going to go ahead and we're going to put light on that vampire.
Because they never deny that the WikiLeaks content and the emails were real,
so it is real.
So Obama did order $65,000 worth of hot dogs
with taxpayer dollars to the White House.
So Friday, WikiLeaks special, call-in special,
three hours long, your favorite WikiLeaks content.
So get ready for that.
They're going to hate it.
They hate the truth.
Now, this story just went up on the Drudge Report.
Senate panel will vote on Bill to protect Mueller despite McConnell's opposition.
So McConnell comes out, does the right thing,
and basically shoots down the bill that was going to protect Mueller
in case Trump decided to dump him, which he should never even been there.
I mean, Mueller, to say that Mueller,
he shouldn't even be fired because he shouldn't even be there to begin with.
But the Senate's going to vote on it anyway.
And you know that Chuck Schumer is going to start crying if this bill doesn't pass.
I predict that right now.
Chuck Schumer will cry if he can't get his bill passed to protect Mueller.
You know why?
Because Chuck Schumer is a dirty, rotten scumbag
who probably has some skeletons in his closet,
and he knows if McCabe goes down, he's probably going down with him.
Folks, I'm telling you, you can't even believe it.
Every lawyer, everyone that comes up in this deal to bring down Trump,
the latest judge, Kimba Wood, the judges, the lawyers, the people, the this, the that, the...
They're all connected to Clinton.
I mean, you can't even believe it.
They're married to the brother.
They were on some committee.
They hosted some event.
They were some big fundraiser.
They're families.
They're all connected.
Hillary Clinton, I don't know if she's actually doing it.
I don't know. I mean, she might be in an iron lung.
But somebody is rounding up and activating all of the Clintonites.
The entire Clinton crime apparatus has been activated against Donald Trump.
Do you understand?
Do you understand?
And they're so powerful that there's no one that can even stop them.
Trump won't even do his job as president and stop them.
Okay?
Trump should shut this thing down from the beginning.
Sessions should have all these people investigated.
It's not happening.
But the Clinton crime syndicate is so vast and so powerful,
you are seeing the entire thing being activated right now against Trump.
They bring down Manafort.
They bring down Flynn.
They bring down Cohen.
It's all to try to bring down Trump.
And they're all connected to the Clintons, folks.
Every single one.
Do not doubt this for one second.
Everything that you see to try to bring Trump down is a Clinton operation 100%.
And you might have some Obama factions in there.
He's tied in with the Clintons, too.
It is a total, the Clinton crime syndicate has been activated to bring Trump down
because if Sessions does his job and Trump makes him do his job,
they're all going to jail and they know it.
That's why they're in the fight for their lives.
But then they do the stupid things with polls.
New poll finds race between Cruz and Beto too close to call.
Let me tell you something.
All these polls are fake.
Okay?
They're all fake.
Don't rely on any poll you ever see.
It's all fake news.
It's all a lie to get you thinking something that's not true.
John Rappaport, Jedi Master takes over on the other side.
You stay classy, Info Warriors.
Info Warriors Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body
and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture,
floral life, as well as Myco ZX that targets the yeast, the mold,
and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in 4slife.com.
Welcome everybody, John Rappaport here, sitting in for Alex and the 4th hour at Infowars.
So what I want to talk to you about today is coincidentally something called the Infowar.
Wow. What a coink-a-dink.
I happen to be sitting here on a site, a news outlet called Infowars,
talking about the Infowar because it's incredibly real and it is upon us.
We are in the middle of it.
This is no joke.
It is happening all around us.
What part do you play?
What do you do?
How do you see this?
How do you look at it?
How do you respond?
Because you know that the giants of industry, digital industry, are doing everything they can
to slant the news, to censor the news, to black out the news, to divert the news,
to pump up fake news, to pretend that independent media are doing the fake news
when mainstream news has been doing the fake news for as long as they've existed, basically.
That's how they started.
Well, we need some fake news.
Well, we don't have any news.
Exactly.
So we have to start the news and let's make sure that it's fake right from the beginning.
Right, boys?
Right.
So we'll put out the news that benefits us and we won't permit any news that doesn't benefit us.
Shall we put that on the mass head of the New York Times?
No, I don't think we need to do that.
As long as we, the controllers, understand what we're doing, we'll be fine.
And that was the beginning of modern news.
Before then, you had the priest class and the dictators and kings and strong men who would hire
and actually create the eunuchs, the eunuchs, the castrati who would present the news to the people,
direct from the mouth of the ruler who was ruling by divine right.
And the eunuch would present the news.
Well, if you follow television news for the last 40 or 50 years as I have,
you've seen a whole parade of eunuchs go by.
And they're all good at what they do.
That's why they take home the big checks, delivering fake news.
And because they got caught with their panties in a twist after the election of 2016,
and somehow the fake news that they were dispensing didn't work,
they had to go on the attack and they had to use the term fake news to deride and to derogate
and to destroy the independent media who had suddenly vaulted up into prominence.
My God, look at what's happening.
Info wars right out there, all of a sudden.
Well, for some reason, our traditional news websites are just not functioning as we thought they were
and they're losing money and we're losing money and everybody's losing money.
And here's this thing called what info wars and they've got millions of listeners
and they're not even taking any big corporate advertising and government money.
How is that possible?
Well, I don't know, let's see.
Let's appoint a task force to figure it out and find out what's going on.
How are they surviving?
Well, let's see.
Okay.
Well, they're selling products.
How dare they?
Well, I mean, that's what we try to do.
We put up that yes, but we don't sell the products.
We let the advertisers sell the products.
That's far more dignified, don't you see?
Here's a product for a medical drug that can kill you in five days,
but we have nothing to do with it and we just allow the ad that says it's the most wonderful breakthrough
in the history of healing on the planet.
So we've distanced ourselves as we always do from these sorts of things,
but here this news operation is actually selling products that what?
Improve health.
How dare they?
How dare they do that?
These products actually contribute to health in some way.
Well, apparently so.
Lots of people are buying them.
Well, that's outrageous.
That can't be done.
We have to stop that from happening.
Otherwise, if people are healthy, I mean, you know,
what's going to happen to the hospitals and the doctors and the pharmaceutical companies?
The vaccinators, I mean, for God's sakes, man,
we've been in charge of this operation for a long time.
Killing people at a tremendous rate while we say that we're healing them.
And we just can't let this go by.
We're going to have to start attacking info wars on all possible fronts
because our news is the important news and the only news.
Yes, boss, but did you see that we're sinking into a swamp, a lake, an ocean of red ink
and we're incredibly sunken down there in debt.
And we've refinanced the financing of the financing of the loans of the loans
and we're just hanging on really by a thread.
Well, that's ridiculous.
How could that be?
We're the rich and the powerful and the controlling.
How could our news operations go down?
Well, boss, it seems that the people just don't trust us in the same way that they used to anymore.
Well, how is that possible?
A point of task force and study that, my man.
I want to know the answer.
Why have we lost the trust of the people?
Well, we've already done the surveys, boss.
And what they are coming in with is that more and more people think that we're lying to them
on a regular basis to protect high level criminals among us.
Well, I mean, that's true, but they're not supposed to know that.
How have they figured that out?
Well, I don't know, but they have, apparently.
And they're figuring out more every day.
Well, we have to stop that from taking over.
I mean, this is like a plague.
Isn't there some drug or vaccine that we can deploy to stop these people from learning the truth about us?
Well, not so far, boss.
I mean, we can maim and injure and brain damage and kill people and make them infertile.
We can do all of these things.
We've been doing that for quite a while now.
But as far as actually finding something that's going to make them believe in us again and trust us,
we've been working in the labs.
I mean, I've got reports here stacked this high.
And so far, they just haven't been able to come up with anything that's really essential and useful and so forth.
We don't know exactly what's happening.
What I'm trying to say, boss, is that this is a mystery.
It's a mystery as to how and why the people are waking up to the fact that we've been lying to them all along.
Not just now and then, but all the time.
I mean, this idea has now gotten loose.
It's like a tiger that's escaped the cage.
And we just can't find it and shoot it.
That's what's happening, boss.
Well, that's very sobering, my boy.
I don't know what to think of that.
We're going to have to appoint another task force to try to figure that out.
I'm going on vacation myself.
I'll be back in about a year.
But I'm expecting some updates on this as soon as possible,
because if the truth gets out in the Info War, you know what could happen to us.
Well, yes, boss. I mean, we've got a list of crimes as long as from here to Mars.
And if these crimes are exposed on every level and every front,
and all the deception and the criminality and the primes and the corruption
and the stench of it would rise from here to the end of the Milky Way.
We'll be back with more of the Info War.
Baby, baby.
Defending the Republic from enemies born and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 Berkey.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
The InfoWarsLife.com
John Rafferport back here in the fourth hour sitting in for Alex at InfoWars, describing the Info War that we are in the middle of.
And the super duper controller is talking to his underling.
He's about to go off on a year vacation to try to get away from it all because he's losing the Info War and his media outlets, these traditional outlets like the New York Times and Washington Post, CNN and so forth and so on,
are absolutely going into full fail, full fail in the sense that they are failing to convince people that they have the truth.
In fact, more and more people are realizing and recognizing that they're lying all the time and they've been lying since the beginning.
So when they decided to use the term fake news to accuse independent media of being fake, it took about 3.726 seconds by my calculation to turn that whole sucker around
and have millions of people saying you're the fake, you people, you mainstream news people and the controllers behind you are the fakes and you've been the fakes for a long time and we know it.
That's what's been happening and it keeps on happening.
So their only strategy at this point is to try to just black out and censor and destroy all of independent media, which they're failing to do.
And before I get back to my little drama that I was staging in the last segment, you play a role in this, you.
Not it would be nice if you did or I think you should. No, you play a role in this. You've got to play a role in this.
And there's a very simple thing you can do among all the other things you can do. There's a simple thing you can do is be your own media.
You don't have to start a blog. You don't have to start a website.
You take the very best stories and articles and podcasts and radio shows and so forth of independent media that you truly believe are the best information and you cut and paste and link and do whatever you need to do to send them direct to as many people as possible.
That's what you do and you do it every day and you keep on doing it. You become your own media outlet in that sense. That's what you are.
And if people don't respond, you just keep going anyway because some people will respond. They will respond.
And you keep doing that and you keep doing that. And if, let's say, 50,000 people do that every day, then Facebook, Twitter, Google rankings, YouTube, who cares? Who cares?
Who decided that in order to get access to good information, you have to go through these intermediaries. That's all they are, this social media thing.
Well, we are the intermediaries now. We position ourselves between the public and the media, you see.
And so you put up your little pictures and picnics and whatever and all that crap, but basically we're interposing ourselves.
So we decide what you want to see and what you shouldn't see and we want to protect you because we know you can be triggered at a moment's notice and terrible things can happen to you and we want to protect you.
Are you kidding me? You don't need them. We don't need them.
We can make use of them for as long as it's possible, but it's not necessary. You send out the links to the stories, to the truth.
You hook people up with the truth yourself every day. You're the social media. That's it. It's very simple.
Oh, but I don't know if I can do it. Yeah, you can do it, but I'm not sure you can do it, but you see, you do it. Just do it.
You'll feel better. You'll feel better. Now let's get back to this because you see when we last left this little magic theater that I was inventing in the last segment,
the controller, the big time controller who was going off on his vacation, who represents everything that's fake and deceptive and criminal and disgusting about this planet,
is talking to his underling and one of the sticking points here that the boss can't understand is that there's this thing called Infowars.com
that is actually supporting itself by selling products. I want to revisit that. Yes, boss. Well, you see, let me just read you what they're talking about here.
They've got a product called SuperMail Vitality, 50% off, Survival Shield X2, 25% off, three months food supply, you get an Alexa Pure Pro filter free, et cetera, et cetera,
Vitality and Balance Combo SuperMail Vitality and Real Red Pill, 50 off, True Alpha Mail Combo, 50% off, et cetera, et cetera. Well, I've never heard of such a thing.
Where do they get this? At infowarsstore.com. You see, they've got this crazy idea at Infowars that there's a free society of exchange of good for good.
Wow, that's ridiculous. We're moving into complete socialism and globalism. How can they even think that that's possible? Well, boss, they're not only thinking it, they're doing it and it's succeeding because people are going to infowars.store.com,
How does this system work? Well, it's simple. Infowars sell supplements, other very good products, according to them, you know, people buy them, they spend money for them, and that money funds the operation of Infowars.
Oh, that sounds like free enterprise to me. Yes, it does, boss. It sounds like, what was that word? Capitalism. Yes, boss, that's the way they operate, and they're actually succeeding. Yeah, they're not only succeeding, boss, they're expanding.
That's impossible. I mean, the New York Times is financing the financing of the red ink of the red ink of the red ink. They're going down the toilet if you really look at their books.
So how can this, what did you call this, Infowars? How could they possibly be succeeding? Well, they have this page called infowarsstore.com with products that people are finding valuable to their health.
This is very sinister. We'll be back with more after the break.
It's a no brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon? Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey, and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Let's go to Debit in Florida. Debit in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product, and I got to say they're amazing.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it, because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret swell, vitamin interfusion. I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the top of the list that makes it all possible. Which pharmaceuticals do you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest. That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning, and I swear to you, I felt incredible. Like, I haven't felt sweet. My morning was fantastic.
And I love the guys, I love the info wars through, and I just want to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence, just buy it.
You will love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency, then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with cell force from infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
News, analysis, reports. It's the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, John Rappaport.
John Rappaport, back here in the fourth hour, sitting in for Alex at infowarsstore.com.
Supermail, vitality, 50% off. That's infowarsstore.com.
And as I was explaining back there in the last couple of segments, people in traditional lying, fake media, they just don't understand a person-to-person operation.
They don't get it. They don't even know what that is.
In other words, somebody is engaging in actual, here's money, I like what you sent me for the money, and therefore I'm supporting your operation.
That's what's happening at infowars.
They want to put up fantastic numbers of pharmaceutical ads, for example, instead of that. That's what they do.
They're in bed with pharmaceutical companies, body and soul.
Despite the fact that even conservative estimates are that in the US alone, medical drugs approved by the FDA are killing 106,000 people a year.
That's a million people a decade.
Traditional media outlets couldn't care less.
But if you were swooping in on Earth from a remote planet, and you were looking down at these giant media outlets that are wrinkling and fading and drowning.
The New York Times, the Washington Post, the BBC, CNN, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
You would be saying the following.
Look at how much of their advertising is this thing called pharmaceuticals.
Now we've studied them from a distance, and we can see that they're killing people at an enormous rate.
So what should we conclude about these traditional giants of media that are supposed to be disseminating the truth to people when these are the prime advertisers that they're using?
I mean, if the aliens were showing up were perceptive and honest, it would be a slam dunk.
They would say, well, we certainly don't want to pay any attention to what they're broadcasting and printing because, you know, they're supporting death.
Basically, we are the death media.
Hello, good morning.
This is death brought to you by your trusted, your most trusted name in news.
We are death, and we are proudly giving space to advertisers whose products are killing you at an enormous rate.
Of course, we're not covering that with the news, but that's what we're doing.
And we're glad to have you here and, you know, use these products that we are representing here and you'll die.
It's a great day, isn't it?
In the new world brought to you by your fake news outlets forever.
Now, this is actually what's happening in the fake news world, and it's been happening for a long, long time.
As a reporter starting out in 1982, I've spent an inordinate amount of time documenting this chapter and verse, the drug, the destruction of human life by the drug.
The studies reporting on the overall effects of pharmaceutical drugs, the lying mafia at the FDA who approve these drugs as safe and effective when they are destroyers of life.
And the medical journals that are publishing fraudulent reports on the clinical trials of these drugs that make them out to be marvelous and safe and effective when, in fact, they are going to be killing people.
Amazing, isn't it?
When you just kind of put it that way, which is the way that it is, you get a better perspective on what is fake and what is real.
Indeed, you do.
And as I've reported on this program before and written about extensively coming into the arena of fake news about vaccines, vaccines, yes.
The next generation of vaccines that is being heralded now by the press called DNA vaccines.
Now they inject you or will inject you with synthesized genes that they claim will protect you from various diseases.
The only thing is, the only catch is that these synthesized genes will permanently alter your DNA, permanently, not just momentarily, permanently.
And that will be true of every human on the planet who receives one of these DNA vaccines. And let's suppose that indeed these vaccines become planetary.
They will be the next generation of vaccines for everybody. Then anybody and everybody, untold numbers of people who receive any of these vaccines, will have their own DNA permanently altered.
Well, that's no problem. We can assure you we've got it covered. It won't be a problem.
This slight alteration is not going to affect anything as to do with health or functioning. It's just, you know, it's kind of, think of it as a cherry on top of the cake.
That's all it is. Yes, but you see, they don't know that. They don't know anything. It's a grand experiment.
They do want to alter DNA. That's for sure. No question about it, because they believe that you and I and everybody else are.
What should we call ourselves in their eyes? Farm animals that are here to be experimented upon. And if one experiment doesn't work out so well, well, that's just the way science operates, you see.
And speaking of science and all the flood of fake science that we see coming down the pipeline, where are the so-called truth-telling media about that?
Why aren't they pounding on the story? And let's see, what story could I pick up out of my hat? Oh, yes. Have you ever heard of CRISPR?
CRISPR, it's a marvelous thing. It's the latest in precise surgical-like gene-editing techniques.
So they can just cut and snip a gene here or there, replace it with another one, take out one. It's all very, very, very concise and precise and so forth.
The only thing about it is, excuse me, is unintended consequences. Yes, that's a nice phrase, isn't it? You'll see that in the major media.
Yes, well, there may be some unintended consequences, which translates means unknown consequences, wouldn't you say?
Well, yes, I suppose you could put it that way. Well, that is the way it is. Well, I suppose.
And if there are unknown consequences, by which we mean ripple effects in the rest of a person's genetic makeup as a result of this very clever gene editing,
then who knows what chimeras and hybrids we will be creating in the future when we let this technology out everywhere.
Well, I don't know about that. Well, let me tell you something. It is out everywhere already. No, that couldn't be.
These things are regulated. No, actually, not so. Because you see the CRISPR, up to the minute, magnificent gene editing technique,
which has unintended consequences, is very cheap. Very cheap. Available. You can buy it. Anybody with a lab and an idea can have it.
How do you like them apples? We'll be back.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae, and I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing. Red pill, now available at m4warstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering m4warstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
The reason m4warstore has five star ratings on major third party sites is because I want products I'm going to use for my family. I take this. My family takes this.
And then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you're going to find anywhere. So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at m4warstore.com.
I never forget to take them. I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good. The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good. And I know my hair is a little luxurious once again. So obviously the superfemale is amazing. I love it.
The nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
It's got a five star rating. It's a win-win m4warstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
How you like me now? How you like me now? How you like me now? How you like me now? How you like me now?
Back in the fourth hour, last segment, John Rappaport. One of the things that I'm explaining and people are waking up to this is that we're playing offense now.
Not playing defense. It's a mindset, okay? In the Info War. In the war for freedom. Not defense, offense.
Oh, well, they said this and I don't like that. And isn't there a way that we can get them to change their minds about what they're saying in the mainstream media, et cetera, et cetera?
And we're trying to get them to under, no. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Declaration of Independence from the liars means that you're going to tell the truth and you're going to tell the truth on offense.
We're playing offense here. Know the truth and not only set yourself free with it, but set others free with it. Playing offense.
Well, the bad guys and thing and blah and they can't, you can't. There's nothing you can do about it because everything's taken over and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Bologna. You're just making an excuse for doing nothing. That's what's happening there.
Lots of people, you know, they live by making excuses. Yes, my greatest trait is I know how to make excuses.
And if somebody would like to hire me at a very high salary, I can provide them with 10,000 excuses that I've compiled, excuses that allow me to do nothing, to do nothing,
and to maintain that all is lost and there is only doom ahead. You know those people. I know those people. We don't have to pay any attention to them.
That's underneath playing defense. You see, it's three rungs on the ladder. The bottom is nothing, nothing works and it's all horrible and we're doomed.
Then, you know, you get up out of that. The next one is, oh, we're playing defense and I hope that there's just not too much coming at us and maybe if we just plead with a certain expression on our faces,
the bad people who are lying to us and spreading fake news all the time will just become transformed and tell the truth.
Yeah. Good luck with that one. Try to work on that one and you get back to me on how well that goes.
No. Up at the top of the ladder, you're playing offense. You know the truth and you're using it to set yourself and other people free.
That's the job. Okay. That's one of the jobs. Anybody can apply and be automatically accepted as long as you use your brain, your head, and you play offense.
That's the deal. And the controllers don't get that, you see, because really in a final analysis that I've been building up to here for the last hour,
they're pretty stupid. They don't understand freedom and people talking from freedom and acting from freedom.
They just don't get it anymore. It doesn't make sense to them. They can't believe what they're seeing. They're blown away by it so they don't want to look at it.
They don't want to think about it. That it's possible that a movement is growing so large and is so diversified in so many different ways on so many different issues that there are so many people who are actually revealing the truth.
While they are carrying on with their usual fare of lying as they have always done from the beginning.
They can't believe it. They don't know what to make of it. It's driving them crazy.
So they have to make up all kinds of names and accusations and lies which we are seeing, believe me, many, many, many, many lies are being thrown at people in independent media to make them out to be the worst.
They've got nothing else to do. They can't actually deal with what is being presented.
I mean I had a guy, how much time do we have? Yeah, I think I can get this in.
One of these so-called quack buster websites, you know, well we expose the quacks of natural health and defend the practice of real science.
So some years back, and these people are always jabbering on and on and on and on. So some years back I spoke with one of these guys and I said, well, you know, there's a very interesting study published in the Journal of American Medical Social.
Yeah, July 26, 2000. Dr. Barbara Starfield, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health. And let me tell you what it says. Every year the medical system in America, that's your system that you're defending, kills 225,000 people.
That's a conservative estimate. So if you extrapolate out a decade, that means you're killing 2.25 million people in the U.S. alone every 10 years.
And I think that if you want to bust some quacks, really bust them, baby, that you'll go after the people that are making that happen.
Don't you think? I mean, it makes sense. And I'm just referring to a review in the Journal of American Medical Association. I'm not making this stuff up. You can read it.
So he said something like, well, that's not really our area. No, it wouldn't be your area. That wouldn't be your area. No, no. Your area would be lying about natural health, real health. That would be your area.
It's not really our area. We don't care about medical system killing 225,000 people a year and all the turmoil and horrendous tragedy that engenders.
That's not our area. We don't care. No.
That's your major media. That encapsulizes what major media does mainstream every day. And you want to play defense against that defense.
They have the ball and we're shifting around trying to plug up a hole here and a hole there while they're coming.
Really? That's the strategy? I don't think so. I don't think so. No.
Offense. Offense.
I see, for example, in the area of vaccines, there are some people that, you know, are playing defense.
Well, we're just reacting to the latest thing that they've released about vaccines. No, no, no, no, no, no.
Find the position which is the truth and then play offense on the entire issue. Yes, you can cite specifics and so forth.
You are the media. You are media. You are truth teller.
You present the news wherever you find it and you pass it along however you do it. But you do it.
And as the flood of the truth increases and the wave grows higher and more inevitable, shall we say, they, the controllers,
sink further and further and further and further and further. They don't know what to do.
They don't have an answer. They never did have an answer. But now the truth is loose.
It's out of the zoo. It's out of the cage. It's out on the streets. It's everywhere.
Play offense, my friends, and I'll see you next time on Infowars. John Rappaport, signing off.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
It's Alex Jones. It's Alex Jones.
It's the first of 99.99% ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones,
which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put,
if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Sun vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
