Wow, we have got a lot to report to you on this worldwide broadcast, thank you for joining
us on the 29th day of April 2018 for the Sunday Transmission. We'll be here as we are every Sunday
live four to six p.m. ahead of the weekday broadcasts of myself, Owen Schreuer, David Knight,
and others. Ten hours a day live now from the M. Full Wars Network that the establishment is trying
to take down. Well, Mr. Clapper, former national director of intelligence who also headed up the
NSA previous to that testified to Congress four years ago that he had never and the NSA had never
spied on anyone in the United States period. Now that was a 1000% total complete lie.
The statute of limitations just expired on perjuring yourself to Congress. It's actually
five years. I said four. It's been five years. He did it again. He testified to Congress. There's
an excellent zero hedge article up on infowars.com, but also even the Hill and others have picked it
up. Jack Mesobic did a great breakdown. We should get Jack home the next few days of this whole
situation, but he testified that he was never the source. We even have a Don Lemon video that's in
the folder. I forgot to tell you guys about it. It's like two minutes long or even Don Lemon
grills him and goes, but you are the source. You told CNN you were the source. Now he works for CNN.
So when Don Lemon saying you're a liar, I mean, that's like Pinocchio saying you're a liar. I mean,
you got a serious problem when Pinocchio even thinks you're bad. The arrogant Pinocchio that is
Don Lemon because CNN knows he's the source. He's bragged he was the source back when he was so
arrogant back when his counterpart of the CIA, Brennan, was saying stuff like, watch your mouth.
So Trump has ripped the lying machine James Clapper over leaks to CNN.
And the articles on infowars, both from infowars and zero hedge, just chronicle video clips of him
in 2017 on CNN. Right as the president's being inaugurated saying, you know, that he saw the
info, he leaked the info. Then we've got him testifying to Congress. Months later, he didn't.
It's like these people have Alzheimer's or something, or they don't think we're paying
attention. Well, we are Clapper and Brennan and all the rest of you. So those clips are coming up
later in the hour. But sometimes something happens that really illustrates everything.
And a big thing that we have to really dig into today is the whole situation with the
White House Correspondents Dinner that transpired over the weekend and the abject insane asylum
level arrogance that even has mainstream media saying this completely flopped. But it gets better
later. Coming up, CNN was given an award at the press dinner for the Steele dossier reporting,
which was illegal leaks and fake and been proven to be a fraud. And they think you're so dumb.
You think is that arrogance? No. They think like Gruber said, we bet everything on the public having
no memory. We bet everything on the public having absolutely totally no memory. So we're going to
be going over all of that because I mean, here they are giving an award to three so-called
reporters, Jake Tapper and others at CNN at the press dinner in the middle of the scandal of Clapper
perjuring himself to Congress in front of the whole world. If you like, if I said I robbed a bank
on January 3rd and then a couple of months later on April 3rd, I testified to Congress
that the clappers case was actually April 10th. I never did that ever. That's that's insane.
Just like we got to queue it up where he said five years ago, I've never, no one in the NSA
has ever spied on anybody in the US ever. It just doesn't happen. So we're going to come back from
break with Ms. Wolf roasting herself hoisted on her own petard. Introducing Cell Force by Info
Wars Life. Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection. Mitochondria produce
over 95 percent of your energy. They are your body's cellular engines. Cell Force helps promote
your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much like a cellular engine overhaul
because when your mitochondria don't run at 100 percent efficiency, then they start producing
reactive oxygen species. Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage
resulting from these reactive oxygen species. The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some
of the most powerful available on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its
ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. Boost, protect,
and adapt with Cell Force from Info Wars Life. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. It's Alex
Jones. Well, we rarely see mainstream media fall on its face in a more disgusting fashion.
They do it all the time, but this was really special. We've got quite a few of the excerpts
coming up this hour of Michelle Wolfe of Viacom and Sumner Redstone anti-American fame. Same folks
that brought you gangster rap and MTV. Well, they're not busy undermining the president.
They're busy throwing fits that for the second year in a row, he didn't show up to a correspondence
dinner. When these are people sworn to destroy him, who absolutely hate him, who are talentless,
that no one wants to watch, that has almost zero ratings, doesn't even show up, and if he shows up,
then they get ratings. Why would you show up to have a bunch of feckless, craven,
unpopular losers, cowardly individuals tell stupid jokes? The really sick one. A week and a half after
a Southwest Airlines engine blew up, blew a hole in the side of the fuselage and sucked the woman
halfway out, almost cutting her head off before they drug her back in. She died hours later at
the hospital. That's not funny. They say he's like a big orange Southwest engine blowing up.
Hollywood, MTV, Comedy Central, all these shows, Stephen Colbert,
they are in their own bizarre, hateful echo chambers. Can you imagine if I made a joke
about an engine blowing up and killing a woman and injuring other people
and concerned it would say Hillary Clinton, you would never hear the end of it. Instead,
they make up things I never said or edit things I said to demonize me, but these people
are the hateful ones. And they're the ones that funded the Arab Spring that killed over a million
people, over 100,000 of them women and children, many of which were sold into sex slavery, the ones
that were unlucky enough to not be killed. And I mean that seriously. Sold into slavery that
Islam still has operating in six countries, six of the seven Trump banned from coming to the United
States unvetted. We don't accept their fake passports and the Supreme Court set next week.
The word is to affirm the president. So we'll see how they like that. So that's coming up.
Tying into the press dinner, they gave CNN an award for reporting on the Piscay dossier,
the Steele dossier, PP gate, which is admittedly totally fake. They admitted it's fake,
but they gave themselves an award thinking you're so stupid, you won't remember that they now admit
it's fake. Not just that Congress found there was no evidence. Even mainstream news has to admit
there's no evidence any of the Steele dossiers real, but they don't care. They don't care they've
lost all these lawsuits and the rest of it. They just keep rehashing and retreading the same thing
over and over again. They had Comey on this week on CNN saying he doesn't know if the PP gate
thing isn't true or not. He says he never saw it. There's no evidence of it, but who knows it might
be true. It might be true that monkeys, flying monkeys fly out of his rear end as well. I'm
trying to get gross here. It's just this stuff is pure absolute bull. We know Hillary was on the
Chinese payroll, the Russian payroll. We know their servers went missing. It goes on and on.
And so when people always bring up the FBI investigation and the Clinton Justice Department
people and all of it, the big issue here is, where's the prosecution of them when it's open
and shut? But enough of that. Let's go to some of the most unfunny, sickening macabre stumbling.
This comedy central witch who's getting her own show on Netflix, got half a eaten hamburger and a
garbage pile can get a show on Netflix now. Netflix is giving this witch a show and I'm
sure if it gets zero stars, like some of the other folks have gotten, I'm sure they'll just ban
the ratings system for that particular video. But here she is making sick jokes and so pissed
that we're turning the country around from the brink of death. Here it is.
You are hosting the White House Correspondents Dinner, which is a big event for those who don't
know. Typically the president will be there. This president has decided to sit this last one out.
And I think he's, is he not coming to this event? No, he's not coming. I get the lovely Sarah Huckabee
Sanders instead. Yeah. By the way, hit pause. There's this ironic thing on Vice TV,
in Comedy Central, where they get women and men that kind of don't look right and who can't really
talk. It's supposed to be real ironic. Like we pay attention because we think they're kind of special.
Let's go back to her. Michelle Wolf, now known as the 2018 Correspondents Dinner Liberal,
failed with snappy one liners that went absolutely nowhere. I'm going to skip it a lot of the normal
pleasantries. We're at a Hilton. It's not nice. This is on C-span. No one watches that. Trump is
president. It's not ideal. White House Correspondents Fine Association, thank you for having me. The
monkfish was fine. A shrill, ridiculing, shallow voice, belting out insults catered to the nihilistic
mind of the far left. I never really thought I'd be a comedian, but I did take an aptitude test
in seventh grade, and this is a hundred percent true. I took an aptitude test in seventh grade,
and it said my best profession was a clown or a mine. Well, I first said clown, and then I heard
my voice and was like, or maybe mine. It is kind of crazy that the Trump campaign was in contact
with Russia when the Hillary campaign wasn't even in contact with Michigan. It's a direct
way. It's so close. Trump is racist, though. He loves white nationalists, which is a weird term
for a Nazi. Calling a Nazi a white nationalist is like calling a pedophile a kid friend,
or Harvey Weinstein a ladies man. And I'm never really sure what to call Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
You know, is it Sarah Sanders? Is it Sarah Huckabee Sanders? Is it cousin Huckabee?
Is it Auntie Huckabee Sanders? Like, what's Uncle Tom but for white women who disappoint other white
women? Oh, I know, Aunt Coulter. I did have a lot of jokes. I had a lot of jokes about cabinet
members, but I had to scrap all of those because everyone has been fired. You guys are going through
cabinet members quicker than Starbucks throws out black people. No, don't worry. They're having an
afternoon. We just needed an afternoon. Wolf Council influences as Seth Meyers and Trevor Noah.
No wonder her performance was so lame. I am also honored to be performing for those of you here
tonight, as well as the handful of people watching at home on C-Span. Relying on tasteless shock
humor and vulgarity. Trump is so broke. Southwest used him as one of their engines. I know. It's
so soon. It's so soon for that joke. Why did she tell it? If this is what funny is to the mainstream
media, can you blame most Americans for their overwhelming distrust? Past correspondence
dinner performers actually brought jokes. I have an announcement for those of you watching tonight's
event live on C-Span. For God's sake, it's Saturday night. It is good to be on C-Span.
I'm glad I'm not on your rival network. No input. HDMI one. But Wolf is the poster child
for all of the attempted comedy shoved down America's throats these days. Hate-fueled
diatribes by hacks who aren't even worthy to carry Richard Pryor or George Carlin's water
to the stage. John Bowne reporting for inforce.com. By the way, I used to watch Stephen Colbert and
the Daily Show and back when he was just one of the fake reporters on there. And it was entertaining
because the stuff he was saying about Bush most of the time was true. Bush had a lot of big problems.
But now with Trump, it's made up or it's the same old hate. It's not funny. And I try to find good
comedy. It's not funny. I mean, remember Richard Pryor, remember George Carlin, remember any of
those comics, Bill Hicks or Sam Kenneson or Rodney Dangerville, they were funny. They were
political sometimes too, but they're just not funny anymore because corporate hacks put on a
teleprompter what they're supposed to read. They're henchmen. They're not even comedians.
They're puppets. We'll be back. Stay with us. I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a
few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or
water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are
funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase
the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best
fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine. And you cannot
beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my
dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well. infowarslife.com or AAA2533139. And your purchase of
the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium. This
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's formula
is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high
quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine
crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience
slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this
super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying
what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet. For more than a decade,
my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers
grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans. We have now managed to secure the sought after beans
in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee
at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches
and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee
and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop
by the site today order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available
in original or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press all
the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead. Oh Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime info wars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force,
anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex. Thank you. I use the
bio true selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who are big normal toothpaste fans. The
super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for the info wars life products. They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely. Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's never going to get any better. Don't look for it. Be happy with what you got.
Because the owners of this country don't want that. I'm talking about the real owners now.
The real owners, the big wealthy business and just to control things and make all the important
decisions. Forget the politicians. The politicians are put there to give you the idea that you have
freedom of choice. You don't. You have no choice. You have owners. They own you. They own everything.
They own all the important land. They own and control the corporations. They've long since
bought and paid for the senate, the congress, the state houses and city halls. They got the
judges in their back pockets and they own all the big media companies so they control just about
all the news and information you get to hear. They got you by the balls. They want obedient
workers. Obedient workers. People who are just smart enough to run the machines and do the paperwork
and just dumb enough to passively accept jobs with a lower pay, the longer hours to reduce
benefits, the end of overtime and the vanishing pension that disappears the minute you go to
collect it. And now they're coming for your social security money so they can give it to their
criminal friends on Wall Street. It's a big club and you ain't in it. And you said recently quote,
when you give, they do whatever the hell you want them to do. You better believe it. So what
specifically did they do? If I ask them, if I need them, you know most of the people on this stage
I've given to just so you understand. A lot of money. You and I are not in the big club. The
owners of this country know the truth. It's called the American dream because you have to be asleep
to believe it. But I'll tell you what they don't want. They don't want a population of citizens
capable of critical thinking. They don't want well informed, well educated people capable
of critical thinking. They're not interested in that. That doesn't help them. That's against their
interest. That's right. From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
If you just joined us, I played that George Carlin intro we've had for like three years,
two and a half years from back during the middle of the first debates back when there was like
11 Republican candidates with Trump because that's a real comedian that can bring in social issues
from a populist perspective, not left to right. We interviewed George Carlin, one of my reporters
before he died and he was really on target and had a lot of courage.
That goes without saying, but you juxtapose that with Michelle Wolfe of Kami Central.
They could jokes about the woman that died getting sucked out the window we can have
a go saying I was a big orange engine like Trump killed her. It's not about Trump. You don't make
fun of a woman that just died. It's super untasteful. I'm going to get to that in a minute and then
to the big news, but Trump comes from the outside of the billionaire circles. He made his money
in operations, not with the globalist combines. At the highest levels, Microsoft, Facebook,
Twitter, Google, Amazon, Apple, IBM, General Electric, and the list goes on. The top fortune 30
or so of the fortune 100 are 100% technocrats in their own words. Look it up. Davos leaders call
themselves technocrats, call for the end of elections, call for appointing leaders of governments.
Jeff Bezos, though, how do you make his money? He made 12 billion in one day last week.
He's worth 140 billion now. Now there is Bloomberg. Jeff Bezos boost fortune by 12 billion in a day.
Now I'm all for free market. He didn't make his money that way. He's a monopoly man.
He needs to be broken up and he will be broken up. Once a monopoly starts surging like a cancer
like this because of inside deals and government, it'll displace everything. That's why he's buying
up. I was reading he's buying over a hundred stories of high rises a day. Did you hear what I
just said? He's building and buying 100 stories a day just in high rises. That's in another
Bloomberg article I saw last week, 100 stories a day. And he is the number one funder after George
Soros of the Democratic Party. We know for a fact and we've got the intel coming out very soon
that he's financing lawsuits against us and Trump right along with Soros and others. He's
tried to hide this until now. He owns the Washington Post, a weapon against this country.
He gets $1.50, it was $1.48 on every package USPS ships for him. That's over 70% of his packages.
Ladies and gentlemen, the man is a cancer and I went down to Whole Foods today,
the headquarters. He's bought Whole Foods, Amazon. It's now Amazon Foods. They admit
they're not organic. Most of their stuff now. It's terrible. Very polite, got thrown out.
Security guard was very nice. Most people were fans there. I thought more would be, you know,
deranged liberals, but they were mainline liberals, smart liberals. And nice security guard says,
hey, we're asking to leave. I said, absolutely, I leave. We're on the very end of the corner.
No one's even around. Other guys come over and threaten us. If we don't leave, I said,
I am leaving, but I get my car. Can I get my car? Wouldn't say. So I got back on their face.
We're gonna go back with HD cameras this week. We're gonna go back with HD cameras and I'm
gonna bullhorn the whole place. So that's all coming up. And I just thought of doing it this
morning. I've been thinking about it for a long time, but I love my wife. I don't tell her what
to do on a lot of things, but I said, listen, I don't want to see Amazon packages here anymore.
We're not going to Whole Foods anymore. They're overpriced anyways by the exact same stuff for
less at other stuff, places that are too expensive, like the HEB, you know, version of Whole Foods,
Central Market. I said, we're not doing it. And she never goes there anymore. That's good. But
I still like dog droppings or something at my house, man. I get home and there's an Amazon box,
like a devil sitting there in my house. And I know she's gotten better about ordering different
places. She goes, oh, it's so quick. It's less money because it's all subsidized. And the last straw
was I love her to death. She's great. She only orders from every few weeks, you know, not every day
something coming in. She's sort of food from there, everything. She would order things go,
yeah, the shampoos all doesn't work right. I said, yeah, they buy rejected crap, Amazon's bad news.
And I'm sitting there.
And I'm just thinking about all the things Amazon's done and the thousands of companies it owns,
hundreds of big ones, they own like 20 of the Fortune 100. And I showed her this morning,
I said, look, and I typed in Alex Jones, Washington Post, snake oil. And she was looking at like
six articles saying I'm a snake old salesman. I'm a fraud by the Washington Post. And I said,
sweetheart, he owns the Washington Post. He's the biggest supplement owner in the country.
I went and got more than a dozen products off our shelf that are private labeled high quality
that they also private label it Whole Foods. And I said, sweetheart, they sell this for 30 at Whole
Foods. It's the same bottle, same thing, different label we sell for 95. I said, you understand,
he is a guy that made 12 billion in one day last week, another 5 billion the other days.
He's tried to put us out of business. He's hired a bunch of former CIA people. This is in the news
to run the Washington Post to try to destroy the country. They're quarterbacking operations against
our family. And they're quarterbacking it against the entire country. And I said, I don't want to see
another Amazon package here ever again. She goes, no, I get it. I understand. I didn't know it was
that bad. I thought you shouldn't like him. I said, no. The man is a psychotic. He is out to get the
president and the country. He wants you poor. He is so competitive. Reportedly, he will throw
incredible fits over a penny. He bought the Washington Post and cut their pay and cut
to everything. And the liberals still worship it like women under a pimp. He is he owns the
biggest sweatshops in the U.S. He's buying all these big buildings and building them with 250
square foot apartments in them. And then people pay even more than they pay for 1000 square foot
and live in them. And he's getting it zoned where they can't build new apartments that are bigger
to make you live like a slave under him when he lives in a 50,000 square foot house. He's a monster.
He's a scumbag. He's an anti-American globalist enemy.
I'm not a rocket scientist, but I know to go out and check the top side and see what they say.
And they have talked about for decades that a lot of the mental disorders,
a lot of the behavioral disorders, a lot of the autism spectrum disorders are in the gut
from the diets and vaccines that trigger autoimmune responses in the stomach
that then create major toxicity in the gut causing toxicity in the brain. Here's a big
BBC report today. Cow bacteria are changing your mood. If you have the wrong ones, you're depressed.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's been sold out for months. Myco ZX is back. Anti-fungal,
anti-east, anti-India. It goes in and knocks out the walls in your intestines where these things
colonize it and put a slime wall in. But the nutrients go through. They get what they want
first. They colonize you. Then they secrete toxins in you that cause depression. They can even
secrete toxins when they want more sugar. This is well known. Newcombe with Myco ZX, exclusively
at InfoWarsLife.com. You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products,
we have an InfoWars Life. It'd take hours. Myco ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back
in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone. That's the
precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins,
the amino acids. So you can upload it. And our latest product that goes great with the super
blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality
silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering InfoWars
Store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that
aren't awake. It's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part
of the Second American Revolution. We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it
together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal
and Chemical Defense Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars. It is a
classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to
the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as
focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and your
prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield
InfoWarsLife.com. Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years
and still maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right. Now's the time to build your own
food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to InfoWarsStore.com to learn more and check
out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use. And let me tell you something,
it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts,
and entire meals. Woo, that's what I'm talking about. And when compared to traditional methods
of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store,
there is no comparison. Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color,
and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years. Now that's what I call the miracle
of food preservation. Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Now, if you want to see arrogance, you want to see hypocrisy,
few examples are better than, again, the White House Correspondents' Dinner 2018.
Trump has been roundly criticized by dinosaur and kleptocrat, decepticon, slime ball,
prostitute, disinformation, coastal elites, media for not going to the Correspondents' Dinner,
which was good-natured until just a few years ago, and vicious and deceptive, the very same group
of Jim Acosta types that say that Trump didn't really visit Congressman Scalise in the hospital,
even though there was live video of it, or that they'd removed Martin Luther King's bust from the
Oval Office. All of it lies. But Jake Tapper and all the rest of them, hoping that you don't pay
attention. So if it couldn't get any more sickening, Jake Tapper got caught hosting fake town halls
in the aftermath of the shootings in Florida back in February. I never said the shootings
didn't happen. I said they had fake town halls. I said that they got four scripted students who
had talking points for the Democrats to be the voice of the anti-gun movement instead of the
pro-gun students. This is all true. So you just build a straw man and demonize good old Alex Jones,
and then you can set the pressure to demonize the next patriot. Just like they said Trump's a loser,
Trump's a liar, Trump's going to prison, Trump's a criminal, everybody hates Trump,
Trump doesn't have ratings, Trump's going to lose the election, Trump's a racist, Trump's a Nazi,
Trump's a misogynist, Trump's a racist, Trump's a rapist, none of it true.
They do the same thing with them for wars because they know we're looking out
for the average person and for free market, for a level playing field, for a true open society,
that Jeff Bezos and all the rest of them don't like. So they have the Maryman Smith award for
excellence in journalism on presidential reporting, whatever that means. And just like
they gave Obama when he was president-elect a Nobel Peace Prize and he launched more wars
than the last three presidents combined. Think about that. Let's put the award back on screen
for TV viewers here. I'll read it to viewers and listeners because I want to go over this for people.
You guys put the Maryman Smith award. It's $2,500 reward, not the half million, I guess the Nobel
is. What's the Nobel now? Let's hook that up. The Maryman Smith Memorial Award for excellence
in presidential news coverage under deadline pressure originated in 1970 in memory of Maryman
Smith of United Press International, a wide-eyed correspondent of more than 30 years. The $2,500
award was conceived to perpetuate Miss Smith's memory and to promote the excellence he brought to
his profession. The award is offered in two categories. Print, newspaper, wire service magazine,
broadcasts, radio and television. So drum roll please. Did they give the award to Jake Tapper
and two other CNN reporters for reporting on a plane crashing or the fires in California
or something where they could actually tell the truth and maybe do a good job? No, no, no, no, no.
They didn't give them an award for fake town halls in Parkland where only anti-gunners were allowed
in and given prescripted questions. They didn't give them an award for a few years ago,
singing in scripting questions for the debate, not telling Trump.
No, they gave them an award for being the go-to leakers, as the Daily Caller has said.
They gave them an award, drum roll please, for their coverage of the steel fusion GPS
PP dossier that is admitted to be a total fraud paid for by the FBI directly to their
wives and husbands at the firm as a payoff. And then I love how Comey's been on the news this
week saying the Republicans paid for it. Well, there was some early Jeb Bush stuff with another
company that he didn't like Trump, so he passed it on to them. But that was mafia stuff. That was
not this. Opposition research, and that was fake too. So this is so amazing
that they're so delusional, they're so disconnected. They would give Obama a peace prize when he had
never even been in office at an executive branch involved in the military. He'd never been in the
Coast Guard. He'd never been in the Boy Scouts. He'd never been in the Army Reserves. He'd never
put a rifle over his shoulder. He'd never been in the Peace Corps. He'd never done a diplomatic
errand. He'd done nothing, but he got the award. Now, does Trump get a Nobel Peace Prize? I nominate
President Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize already for just getting North and South Korea to meet
after almost 60 years since 1953 when the armistice happened. There's been a continued war. They just
met last week, shook hands, and agreed to a peace treaty to end the war after 60 plus years.
Nobel Prize is now 1.4 million. Wow, it's up.
I guess it's 2.6 in Dutch money. Nobel who invented dynamite and felt guilty about it,
nitroglycerin. So I am nominating President Trump for the Peace Prize for trying to get us out of
Syria for beginning to end the Korean War. And if he does get this peace deal, and they do
denuclearize, and they do agree to merge North and South to a future deal, he absolutely must
have it. But don't hold your breath because it's a fake award. The award would mean something
that was given to real people. Like Markel Thalen broke five years ago for Info Wars,
the entire Stingray document plan nationwide to our risk as an operation. We got threatened for that.
Zero coverage, the AP reported on it a month ago with the same documents. Where's Markel Thalen's
Pulitzer Prize? But the Pulitzer Prize is there for being a lapdog. We don't want your prizes.
Our prizes are the people supporting us, getting the word out, having success, and living in a
freer, better country and world. That's our prize. Now, let's go ahead and go to the amazing video
of CNN being given an award for reporting on a known fraud, which Clapper has now been caught
lying about yet again. Here it is.
The Merriman Smith Award honors presidential news coverage under deadline pressure.
The award is in memory of the late, great Merriman Smith of United Press International,
a White House correspondent for more than 30 years. It is given in two categories,
Peace, Broadcast, and Print. The Merriman Smith Award for Broadcast goes to Evan Perez, Jim
Chudeau, Jake Tapper, and Carl Bernstein of CNN.
I nominate President Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize from the great Swedish inventor of dynamite,
Nobel. And he's the one getting peace in the peninsula.
Stop right there for a minute. So that they skip over the fact it's admitted to be fake now
and give them an award for their reporting on how they were briefed that we've got this
ridiculous footage of hookers marking their territory. So again, I nominate President Trump
for the Nobel Peace Prize for the inventor of dynamite, Nitro Glycerin, Mr. Nobel of Sweden,
and I nominate that he go ahead and get it now because he did way more getting north and south
to end the war and agreed to signing an armistice and agreed to nuclearize. Even if it doesn't all
happen, he's gotten more done light years than Obama ever did. So let's go out to break with
the rest of this sickening display, these people getting an award. You may remember that story.
Plus again, you may remember that story. It's all a big joke. See, we remember it's fake. The
public doesn't. So we're going to bring it back up and hope they don't remember again. Here it is.
FBI Director James Comey, personally briefed Trump about the dossier. The judges called their
reporting breaking news at its very best. Okay, yeah, fake news at its best. There you go. We're
going to go to break. There's Jake Tapper up there all of them. This is a true comedy. They're all
up there laughing. Oh my gosh, why not give them awards for walking on the moon or, you know,
beating Hitler or whatever. Well, it's George Soros, by the way, that physically cut Hitler's
head off by the way. Yeah, he was Captain America. Give me my award for that. Report it, please.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle,
two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a
heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate
because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people
$100, $200 for the formulae. And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists
and developers non GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add
the preglonone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even
make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com
and your purchase fuzz the operation.
infowarslife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
winter sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D three winter sun is a premium quality vitamin D
three nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants
known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D three content. It's completely free
of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D three. The research
and development took over two years, but the result as verified by independent laboratories
is the best vegan vitamin D three product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about winter sun vitamin D three. Not only does vitamin D three promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalist are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can
help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100%
organic coffee on the planet for more than a decade. My favorite coffee has come from the
high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown
arabica beans. We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee
gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many
other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years
to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today order a
bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our
immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great
tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com. You deserve a deep rest
till sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made from high quality
natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, el tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10
known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take
on the day. Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com.
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
we are back live coming up next hour jake loy one of our great info wars reporters also army
combat vet patriot he went out on the road with me today to whole foods now owned by jeff bezos
bezos the head of amazon they is now basically degrading the quality of the food there that's in
the news most of us not organic now he's doing all the regular stuff he does but the issue is he
made 12 billion dollars in one day last week due to government contracts kickbacks cia contracts
uh a dollar 50 on every package he ships usps other people don't get that now there's bloomberg 12
billion he made just last week he's an anti gunner he's an anti free marketer he said
trump is killing our democracy i thought trump got elected so he's a globalist so that's all
coming up but first we'll have some of the footage for tv and radio listeners that we're
going to air here if when i went in there today the full footage is up on info wars dot com here's
a jack vasovic tweet from friday while they were calling him a war monger a homophobe and a racist
donald trump ended the korean war appointed the first gay ambassador to germany and got endorsed
by kanya all the same week and it's not about just cheerleading trump but trump is pragmatically
trying to create a level playing field and bring jobs into this country and so i didn't even know
till i said it and they pulled it up i didn't even know the new york post is reported the lobbying
for trump's nobel peace prize has already begun well i think the nobel peace prize is worthless
because they've given henry kissinger and al gore and maroc obama peace prizes they're jokes
yeah back when they gave alexander schultz and eason won or martin luther king won or gondy won
they had some meaning i would not accept a nobel prize or i'd take the money and give it to charity
because it's a million and a half dollars seriously the thing is a joke but the nomination process
has begun it's very very serious because north and south have declared the end of the war they're
going to sign a deal ahead of the meeting with trump the war has been going on since the armistice
was signed in it's been going on since late 49 but it's been ongoing just the ceasefire since the
armistice in february of 1953 so we'll see what happens there ladies and gentlemen it just shows
how dramatic trump has been delivering on so many fronts now let's move on to the big news
by the way i'm pretty original but when i rip off rush limbaugh i do it
i like doing that occasionally i'm like a pavlovian dog nicer limbaugh do that like
in high school and college i get really excited like the anticipation i think i do it better
though okay i'm gonna stop let's get serious look clapper doesn't matter brennan doesn't
matter hillary doesn't matter except they're still the deep state dug in with their operatives
in government dug in like ticks doing whatever they want whenever they want however they want
leaking criminally lying to congress getting caught finally though it's even in mainstream news even
the hill had a report on it zero hedge has the best article it's up on info wars dot com clapper
busted leaking dossier details to cnn's jake tapper lying to congress about it now remember
the statute of limitations in it a few months ago five years after he testified to congress and did
i forget to tell you guys pull that up to pull that up next just typing clapper lies to congress is
famous and he says no the nsa does not listen to anything in the u.s or read anything no just
everything by the time he said that everything except cb radio transmissions goes through an
nsa hub and most of those do you don't think the nsa doesn't know someone on a cb or another radio
or ham radio is really trying not to be heard they're really listening to that so but they don't
catch it all and it's totally unconstitutional clapper busted leaking dossier details to cnn's
jake tapper tapper just got an award for the fake reporting earlier showed you that lying to congress
about it we look forward to clapper talking his way out of this one on cnn during carefully scripted
conversations with fellow talking heads that was on friday and then it just goes through all the
times he testified to congress when he saw all the news articles all the under oath it's a long
article where he said it where he did it there's videos of it everything i mean it is we should
make a special report out of this just to show it all it is incredible but he said i did not leak the
dossier now that's being pointed out it's fake and it's illegal he went on radio and tv to say he
leaked it before so even don lemon is throwing clapper overboard which is a sign that when don
lemon is throwing your butt overboard when don lemon is looking at you like you're a liar he thinks
you're in big trouble and he better not side with you because he's as bad as bad as it gets
when it comes to fake news some of the worst people you know just like tapper it's cnn getting
awards for fake journalism so when he throws your overboard that's the rat leaving the sinking ship
here is that video already held by the media and i i didn't have any contact with media
until after i left the government on the 20th of january so i don't quite understand at least what
i've read uh that somehow i leaked about the dossier so let me get so you didn't leak anything
about the dossier to any media no not i mean i talked about it after i left the government
but uh not during that period uh not and certainly not between the sixth of january and the and the
tenth when the president elect himself talked about it so you're you're saying the president
elect himself as the one who put it out there well it it was publicized if i remember the sequence
it came out uh after our uh trump tar briefing and you know all our purpose there was to to
inform him that it was out there and i've often wondered because it's kind of controversial
that now that we brought this up that if had we not told him about it and then he learned about it
and we and he learned that the intelligence community knew about it and didn't tell him well
it'd been probably been held that we got in tweets for that too uh so i don't understand this uh
how you know i leaked it to to to cnn yeah he works for cnn now he's on record we've got the
article of all the clips right here everybody remembers clapper did that they all did it they
all bragged we got plenty of dirt obama was in the new york times on the 20th of january 2017
i was in dc 50 feet from the president when he was being sworn in and i'm sitting there waiting
for him to come up read the new york times tucked under my jacket this very jacket by the way funny
i wore this very jacket strangely and that's my favorite jacket and this thing like five six years
is getting holes in it but we did a live report before roger stoner and i went in to the inauguration
of reading that where it was intelligence heads clapper and others say they had the information
they had the proof they were wiretapping trump tower all sort of stuff and then he gets up there
and says he never said it he's caught red handed the classified congressional report yeah it's in
the new report i should add that clapper lied about dossier leaks to cnn should have opened
the whole segment with that congress reporting he lied to them yes he lied to them lied to congress
but information he shared with cnn on the infamous steel dossier wow but let's play another time he
lied to you this is five years ago telling congress that the nsa has never spied on anyone in the us
this is years after it came out that every phone call every text message every email
everything digital is sent through giant hubs at telecoms and then onto the nsa so here it is
is if you could give me a yes or no answer to the question does the nsa collect any type of data
at all on millions or hundreds of millions of americans no sir it does not not wittingly
there are cases where they could inadvertently perhaps collect but not not wittingly
so it's like saying a pedophile accidentally grabbed your five-year-old out of your backyard
went and raped him and killed him it's all our hitler actually you know wants world war two or
whatever or rain actually falls on you know out of the sky okay we're gonna start the next hour get
all into the globalist how to stop them how to fight back so much more just briefly we want to
financially support us we're not funded by bezos we're not funded by taxpayer money we're not
funded by stimulus money like mbc we're funded by you we got brain force an amazing new propic for the
mind 25 percent off we assume all vitality 50 percent off that's about the end 50 percent off
we have the x2 deep earth crystal source of the great iodine that is 25 percent off that special
is about to end info war store.com info wars life.com or triple eight two five three three one three
nine and all of you that have bought the great products over the years and given us tens of
thousands of five star reviews i hope you like what you've done because i'm proud of what we've
done but without you nothing would have gotten done you are the info war that's not patronization
i'm not patting you on the head it's you you did it so i want to salute you and thank you
please think about us every day keep buying the great products at infowarstore.com that's how
we can stand against the attacks no matter what comes we will stay the course please stay the
course with us infowarstore.com choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2
and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100
percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall
brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com you know if i tried to sit here and tell you
about the 60 plus products we have it in full wars life they take hours michael zx plus and now
is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast
the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months
it's got the preguinone that's the precursor all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all
the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes
great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver
immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine
super high quality silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering
info wars store.com and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other
people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being
part of the second american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
there is a lot of controversy around this network about alex jones for example
for
alex jones the foray conspiracy theorist who was a parent
alex jones
scott russians scott
alex jones
reputations amazing i will not let you down you will be very very impressed i hope
well they say the wheels of justice turn slowly and yes they do but the arrogance
of bureaucracies burns fast but when it burns away there's nothing left but a bunch of little
cowards who got themselves all wound up because they were accustomed to power didn't understand
the people had voted their asses out and yes in most major elections it doesn't really count much
but what trumpet does that's why you've seen the conniption fits the hysterics the insanity
the crazy lies the distortions the bullying the boycotts the attacks the subterfuge because an
entire corrupt establishment for decades had hijacked this country and had been mismanaging
it into the ground along came trump and the patriot elements of the pentagon and intelligence
agencies you don't just think it's trump do you and along came a consortium of patriots who've been
working in some cases for 60 years to stop the globalist i'm only on a organic extension not
some secret agents not some secret agency not some secret orders not some black op training
center when i was 10 years old but simply growing up in texas is americana around men who'd fought
for the country and who knew the score knew understand who the globalists were and who simply
talked about what they knew in front of me as a young boy and so i studied history i thought
they were right and i sat there and decided when i was 12 13 years old i was going to take them on
that's what destiny's all about they don't want you to think you've got destiny yeah half the
time when i cover here's the train wreck doesn't matter i'm swinging for the fences i'm going
in the right direction i care about justice i want freedom and they don't know what to do in the deep
state trump was recruited by patriots in the government to stop the total humiliation of the
country we've already sold out to china we've already are crippled psychologically culturally
mentally we're already in destitute shape but the globalists wanted to fully have a civil war
a race-based war they want to break us completely and have reeducation camps everything else it was
even coming out in the news not just me covering it and patriots in our own government said the
people are awake they want something different let's try to stop this this is unbelievably bad
rigging debates they want to arrest all the conservatives they want to break up families
they want to have the state run everything this is a horrible system why would we do this so some
hollywood and globalist elites like the rothschilds and the rockefellers and some of the others have
their way with us we're not doing this so right now trump is really like a desperate
rearguard action hoping while he stalls them you wake up and do something and from romania to
hungary to island to brazil to japan to areas of africa to all over the world from katalan spain to
you name it they'd say katalan katalan mr jones i get it i got to say geographically for folks
listening people get it they say listen our local governments aren't perfect but they're not run by
some guy like jeff bezos whose tax at jim who makes 12 billion dollars a day well well they tell me on
the news i'm rich if i make a million dollars a year and pay 40 percent of it in taxes and then
the other lawyers trying to hire people trying to run something trying to do so show that's what
it comes down to ladies and gentlemen is the boys from the men the women from the girls which side
you want to be on but i am very proud to be part of this giant awakening and very proud of what
we're all doing together and standing against the incredible arrogance of clapper and all these
other crooks they thought they'd tell all these lies and do all these things and get away with it
because they thought they were invincible they thought they'd beaten us they didn't know we were
asleep we're awake now clapper we're awake brennan nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your
gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
an organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support
your immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality
organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com
or call 1-888-253-3139
we're breaking the conditioning info wars comes to mind alex joe alex joe alex joe but there's a
lot of controversy around this network about alex joe for google is being accused of hiding
negative stories about hillary and her campaign by changing his algorithm to marry stories like
the clinton body count story that's according to website info wars it's kind of like it's
confirmed our recent shooters with fully automatic weapons Dr. Martin Luther King has been shot to
death in mess with son of the jfk was shot from the back and the front if we're almost in this
they were a planned impulsion it's just pancake it took the baby out of incubators let the children
to die on the phone i think this is a national security imperative we have clear things that we
do not understand how they work operating in areas that we can't control us is this global
governance at last is it one world the central bank is in charge his real claims the fact was
accidental some former u.s. naval officers say it was on purpose they described today's action as
part of a continuing cover russian intelligence compiled a dossier on mr trump during visits to
muska russian stop denied everything he called it all fake news and he accused cnn of being fake news
this is a national emergency if they kill trump or remove trump it will cause a massive civil war
in this country this is a female high-level emergency you're at war with russia are you aware
that mr. stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with julien assange
which leaks the white house the president are citing info wars they could shut us down your next
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance it's alex jones
now ladies and gentlemen we are now well into the second hour of this worldwide broadcast i'm not
going to air this whole 10-minute piece until towards the end of the hour but we're going to air
about a minute or so of it here in just a moment alex jones jones confronted by bezos thugs i'd
say thug only one of the security guys seem to be in charge at whole foods was a jerk who were
already standing on the corner of the property off the property and he came over and said get
out of here i'm calling the police and i said well i go in your parking garage and get my car he
wouldn't answer that made me think i was gonna get arrested when i went down there to get my car
and follow me to my car so i'm coming back i'm already planning to come back but now
coming back a lot because people were polite to me they were nice to me most of the folks in
whole foods were listeners uh in in in big blue state austin blue state cancer austin
but you try to stop me and bully me i'm coming back that's coming up later in the hour because
i've got a bunch of other things i want to get to i want to get into trump on kanya he says kanya
gets it and how they're trying to bully kanya and that major uh bellwether also msnbc guest says
mike pinch would put gay people in concentration camps who became the president well trump is
appointed a gay ambassador to germany nobody's ever done that and i'm not trying to like win
points here or something it's that trump's incredibly inclusive and wants americana and
as the economy comes back and as he gets this big peace deal i mean they north and south
disagree to sign an armistice that will then go into a total peace deal and in the war or in the
armistice uh you've got huge things happening because the globalist wanted a strategy of
tension i know you're a veteran yourself understands strategies of tension but like trump said when
he was with merkel on friday he said we are going to move away from playing games and keeping crises
going yeah and and what a lot of people don't get is the strategies that trump employs trump
understands how russians and chinese and these other eastern nations negotiate because western
europe like germany you know obama negotiated and he he conducted diplomacy like merkel and like
macron would he doesn't understand that there's a way you have to put pressure on russia and china
north korea those other nations because that's what they respect and that's how they respond
to pressure it's a respect game and that's what people like obama don't understand so when trump
is putting pressure on these people he's actually understanding the proper way to operate and i would
expand on that by pressure serious sanctions on the regime itself a year and a half of that
and then saying but here's the carrot merge with south korea have a new business deal really go
into the future but give up your nuclear weapons and as i reported over a month ago from our sources
they already jake loyde had agreed to that and and now you see comes young on it's come out has
already agreed to that yeah he's already agreed to it and what people i mean five months ago it was
five months ago that people thought that we were going to go to nuclear conflict with north korea
and now five months later like you said north and south korea they're talking they're about to end
the 60 some year armistice they're about to come to peace there's probably going to be massive
infrastructure deals where they're reuniting they're building highways and stuff between the two
cities north korea is going to be brought out of poverty and it's all due to the efforts by president
trump when he was putting pressure like you said massive sanctions but also talking about fire and
fury and i would say that probably going forward i'm predicting that the same strategy is going to
be employed with iran we're going to see a similar thing because trump with syria and everything he
demonstrated that he's willing to uh you know we don't like the syria bombings but he's willing to
go against what russia says so that that's going to allow him to put pressure on iran and i think
that we're going to see a massive uh reworking of the iran deal to include the whole middle east
sure well i got what trump was doing on the whole chemical weapons thing they've got the white
helmets caught now four times but that's in the news this week it's now they have all the witnesses
the kids that were brought in from school and dalson water are all in the news saying we were
told it was a fake chemical attack we were given candy we were given lunch i mean this is all coming
out that they staged that thing but i understand trump's face with that he'll look weekly doesn't
strike so he strikes some of these bases gives the russians time to get out the russians are already
trying to pull out that looks strong to iran but let's pull back from that the mainstream media
said it was the end of the world and that we were going to have nuclear war even two weeks ago the
viewed joy bayhar all of them said trump's going to cause a nuclear war that kim jong-un is good
compared to our president now they're not even reporting on how big a deal this is yeah well
and now what they're saying even though you know fought like i said five months ago like you're
talking about just a couple weeks ago trump was the cause of every negative thing in north korea
it was his fault that we were about to go to nuclear war it's his fault that all these bad you know
supposedly bad things are happening and now like you said good things are happening and they want
to put the credit on prime minister moon of south korea they want to put it on jijin ping of china
they want to give all the credit to everybody else and there is some element of credit due to them
even though trump was the one pressuring china to pressure north korea but they want to take
all of the credit away i mean i'd say 90 percent goes to us 80 percent you know russia had a big
piece in actually saying they might back a u.s strike if kim jong-un didn't stop what he was
doing but but expanding on that pull back from this 1953 is when this ended the war was still
going with the ceasefire versus 2018 that's 60 plus years that never got fixed until now so it did
change because of real sanctions the globalist on record wanted a strategy of tension it was clinton
and others that gave the nuclear weapons and missiles to north korea to destabilize things
trump is ending all this macchiabellion crap i mean most americans like this is something
that hasn't we haven't been at peace with korea in most americans living history it's an enormous
monumental thing and like you're talking about with the the strategy of tension and everything
that keeps the globalist um one world government plans in order because then it requires organizations
like the u and it requires organizations like the un to come in and try to fix things even
though they don't and that's what david rockefeller's dad said with the league of nations then the u
and the rockefeller's built in new york on their own land was about a strategy of ongoing tension
where you need them running things these multinational groups instead of unilaterally
nations making the old deal you can have 50 countries making a deal they've just got to do it
unilaterally exactly and what what i don't think a lot of people get is that trump you know whatever
whatever his strategies are on a lot of stuff whether you love him or hate him he's transcending
it's possible to transcend that order of requiring a new uh like the world government and that's why
the bureaucrats are so pissed because he's being the president does that mean i agree with everything
he does as president no do i agree with him being the president returning power back to the presidency
back to congress back to the states back to the people as he promised to do a year and a half ago
on january 20th 2017 at that inauguration he said we're transferring it back to you we're going back
to the republic they had to do one-sided deals to sell america out to globalism they had to get
the whole world to sign on with parlaying when america had 60 of the world's wealth in 1955
now we have way less than like a you know 20 they sold us out to special interest but instead
of it being infrastructure for africa or latin america or asia it became jeff bezos bezos gets
you know 140 billion and this guy gets that it's it's the globalism's been a lie it's been a new
form of robber bearing colonialism where they're now using in their own words the third world
populations to recolonize us but not to empower us but to drive us down as well exactly and what
you know it's important to realize that like it says in the bible if you're not with us you're
against us it's the same because every action that trump carries out that's not out of the new
world order playbook it's an action to reestablish national sovereignty for the us and that's what i
100 agree with and i agree with 95 percent of what trump's done uh it's a very very dangerous game
but he is real you know him by his enemies folks that's why we defend him so much stay with us
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in fuller's life
it take hours michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in
probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids
so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver
and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can
also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without
you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word and again thank you so much for being part of the second american
revolution they use their media to assassinate real news they use their schools to teach children
that their president is another hitler they use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and
award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again and then they use their ex-president
to endorse the resistance all to make them march make them protest make them scream racism and
sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows burn cars shut down interstates and airports
bully and terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs
and stop the madness and when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage the only
way we stop this the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies
with the clenched fist of truth i'm the national rifle association of america and i'm freedoms
safest place hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years
and still maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food
storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to info or store dot com to learn more and check out
this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is perfect
for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals who that's
what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning
or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison harvest right
freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf
life of up to 25 years now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is
truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right
now at info or store dot com alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a
gift to yourself and a gift for the info war to fight the globalist and limited free society
several years ago i set out with top formulators in the us to create the strongest most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the
last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to
end up being the number one best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well
this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's
a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars
life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports
it's for activities and it's made in the us a get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com
everybody needs to try alpha power today you're listening to the alex jones show
so
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
all right i went down to whole foods worldwide headquarters today that's coming up the next
segment jake loy was with me rex jones my son wanted to go i said you can go but i'm gonna
leave you out of this one sure enough he ends up you know at this point he's he's 15 going on 16
he's a man he's already six feet tall he's as smart as i am season me on air more whether
you know the media makes a big deal out of it like david hog could be on air but rex jones can't
can't so uh good luck with that rex is uh rex is here to stay the fact that folks are trying to
keep him off air i think it's actually only been encouraging but jake loy i wanted to briefly
in this segment get with viewers into how we're under attack now i don't get up here like some
sjw saying i'm a victim i want victim status i'm a big baby look at poor little me no i'm saying
i'm trying to be a warrior for this country politically i'm standing up for us right we
have delivered big time and waking up the public you delivered big time as an audience our affiliates
our sponsors you're amazing so the praise 90 percent of it goes to you the rest goes this
crew and what we're doing here that said a lot of this is off record i went to dc for four days
three weeks ago and i can't get into most of what i was there was not what you saw me there for
four and though that was all secondary and i met with some high level folks i'll leave it to you
at that i'm sure you can figure it out high level and they said they gave me the analysis they gave
me the intel and i was told not to get into obviously all of it but i can tell you that we've
already pointed this out there's 15 million a year spent by soros just to fake media to dig
up lies on us they can't find anything they've gone down to our reporters now six months on paul
octson in england they're like the three person team on him this is like a movie but it's real so
you need to understand ladies and gentlemen that we are fighting because we know we're under attack
not because we're angels not because we're perfect but because we don't want to be under a
nazi collaborators control so zero hedge reports on links to the federalist and and leak documents
that congress has put out this week in their intelligence report of the latest strock page
garbage mystery group of wealthy donors with with with us generals over it at the meetings
so they're going to hotels with sitting us generals that are running and on showing all this
to try to stop donald trump now that's just one tranche one group of the money mystery group
of wealthy donors and soros spends 50 million for private trump russia investigation that's after
it came out the fbi was funding it this is the last year 50 million soros puts out 15 million
a year according to my sources so these report and i even had reporters apologized to me off record
they don't know man but i mean i want the 200 grand or whatever you know i mean this is going on
show and i'm lucky they're not sending hit teams down here but they do that that's fine too i don't
want to die but if anything happens to be hillary soros the globalist they're the main suspects now
and i don't say it's act tough or to challenge them it's like i'm in a war these are criminals
in third world countries they can get away with it they engage in massive atrocities but i raise
this because the observer is owned by jared kushner now i'm not even attacked jared kushner
because i can't figure out whether he's really good or really neutral or really bad i tend to
trust trump so i'm not i'm not in some you know white house intrigue about who i support or who i
don't support okay early on i got sucked into some of that i'm not i'm not into that okay but the
observer is owned by a trust he no longer controls it for a year so that's hopefully good news about
jared kushner and i went to it today because there was a bunch of articles attacking me the last month
and it says trump's a russian agent trump's going down uh it says pisk a trio i mean not even the
daily beast says that now not even buzzfeed that made it up put up the fake reporting on it
they admit it's not true now so i go to this story that says what peter teal's playbook shows us
about taking down trump and alex shones now notice taking down alex shones and trump or
trump and alex shones and they admit that the democrats in deep state are funding fake lawsuits
against us to shut us down well here's the difference i didn't video tape in my personal home
my wife climbing on top hulk hogan i think hulk hogan's pretty cool by the way i'm told he's a
listener the point is is that if i did that i deserve to be getting big trouble i'm not getting
buddies over to my house to have sex with my wife and videotaping it i'm not gawker but they say
that's the model and they admit it's lawfare to destroy us so the observer even five years ago
three years ago did some pretty good reporting it's bad news now and so i got kushner saying i
deserve his publication to be basically out of business and that his father-in-law is a criminal
that women urinate on that was on the front page today so
i guess that means kushner really doesn't run anymore but my god who'd you hand it over to
me you know it's like because i know this stuff about me isn't true but at least they're being
honest about it's not peter teal suing us by the way he's a good guy he would defend victims this is
them making stuff up using lawfare and they admit if they can do it to info wars just as they had a
news course said two months ago they could do it to everybody so i wanted to show everybody that
to understand it's not like we're losers here and we're bitching and complaining saying send us money
the nra has broken all fundraising records with david hog attacking him saying ban the second
amendment all this stuff well you know i get attacked along with the nra i get sued like the
nra and and our donations are not up our buying of products is not up it's not an election year
i mean last year was an election year this isn't it really isn't because it's kind of the mid-terms
but it's not a main election year not a general election so i'm not complaining here i mean i
want this i stood up for this i'm doing this but you understand the globalists are obsessed with
info wars they want to shut down they want us destroyed and they admit in this big lengthy
article that they want to take down trump and info wars because we quote can't be stopped
and are bringing populism back to america they're such globalists they admit who we are they go
these horrible nationalists these free market people and they're not elitists like us and
then we've got to destroy them and the only way is to sue them why don't you just get out of the
way and be rich uh in america you jerks and let people have nice apartments and nice houses and
their children and no you got to run everything it's all about your power because i always read
this in philosophy carl ryan you know you name it i was looking at jordan peterson videos this
morning so i haven't really paid attention to him until he just keeps bigger and bigger so i
watched a bunch of him this morning he was saying weak men cannot be virtuous or strong
weak men cannot be leaders and it's because they're rats and always want to screw somebody over
but it's strong men who have the evil side but also the good side that's bigger who understand
things and don't want to be a jerk it is the bad people that want to pull down somebody like trump
so we come back take loybel talk about this but the bottom line there is weak men can't be virtuous
that was the actual quote good job pulling that up is that i'm really trying to build something
psychopaths think i'm a schmuck or crazy that i believe in you and because i'm strong i'm not
screwing you over i must be a schmuck or i have texas hospitality somebody i bring into town and
they get in my face and tell me i'm their bitch i have texas hospitality because i'm a killer i'm
my dragon i'll rip your head off i'll kill you if i need to if i the point is i'm a loving person
that balances me out you cowards don't get it we'll be back choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for
supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made
from a source of 100 organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential
mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight
gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support
the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover
the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com
after being sold out for months our best-selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in
stock at info wars store.com the first shipment of super blue sold out in one week i thought it
would be a six month supply for listeners and since then people are beating down our doors
wanting to be able to resupply their super blue research across the board is clear in fact it's
certified when bacteria infect your gums it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to
blood clots and heart attacks that's why the last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that
your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body super blue fluoride free toothpaste
is a groundbreaking new formula it's loaded with good halogen iodine some of the bad halogen fluoride
super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used as biblical times to help wipe out bad
bacteria and eliminate bad breath just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental
experts include xylitol peppermint oil iodine nano silver and more learn more about info wars life
super blue toothpaste at info wars life.com and support the info war while you support healthy
gums and teeth alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to
yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist limited free society several years ago
i set out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number
one best-selling product at info wars life.com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure
win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available in info wars life.com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and
it's made in the usj get your alpha power today at info wars life.com everybody needs to try alpha
power today alex jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what i have found to be the best tasting 100 organic coffee on the planet for more than a
decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern mexico where the tiapas farmers
grow their unique shade grown arabica beans we have now managed to secure the sought after beans
in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100 organic coffee at
info wars life.com this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches
and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally hands down this is my favorite coffee
and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the tiapas mexican farmers dropped
by the site today order a bag or two and i don't think you're going to be disappointed
available in original or with our immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free
press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at info wars
life.com you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones watch me watch me i got it
hey i got something that makes me want to shout i got something that tells me what it's all about
i got sold and i'm super bad
i got sold and i'm super bad okay so we're back live jake lois riding shotgun with us
i'm alex jones your host we'll get to the whole whole foods slash amazon foods
jeff bezos command base invasion that happened just a few hours ago you were there with me but
you were silent during that last segment as i was reading off out of the new york observer
and out of zero hedge and other publications uh jake where they're saying the main job of the
democrats is to shut down trump and info wars we have project veritas internal videos of youtube
facebook twitter google new york times all saying the same thing i'm not tuning my horn i'm not that
big but they see us and what we're saying because they're insiders as super accurate because we're
on target we actually study what they say and do it's not that we're that big it's that if people
listen it's over for them because the microcosm is the agencies i should think the agencies
in the military would not be the problem but weren't part of the solution but then i realized
they're already on the inside so they actually know i'm telling the truth that's the most a woke
group right now and so that's why they're targeting us so just speaking to that because i want to make
us the center of the story but if we don't make a bigger deal out of this they will win they will
destroy us we're not just upper saying oh we're real big they're after us folks we're the main
target why do you think that is jake like well part of it's a chilling effect part of it is
that they want to take they they want to frame it as we're on the outside we're on the fringe of
the uh the the public voice we're on the fringe and they want to say oh it's just info wars don't
worry about them exactly if you go there globalism world government sovereignty will destroy you when
that's the reality they want to make it where we're untouchable exactly because we are an easy
target in their eyes partially because a lot of people that are that should be you know on our
side a lot of people don't want to come to our defense they don't want to defend our right
to free speech because they've bought into the brainwashing that we're you know cuckoo wacko
that's it they want to play it safe or they think so many times when limbaugh was in trouble people
go good you'll be bigger i remember talking to syndicators they go if limbaugh has heart trouble
or if limbaugh this boycott works you're gonna get a lot bigger and i went no i'm not they're
gonna shut all the talk radio down i'm spending a half million dollars then i got ted to spend
another half million we spent no no total half million i was a quarter million he was a quarter
million i spent a half million on limbaugh when these other syndicators were like getting off on
the idea of his fall they'd have any sense that once they boycotted him we were next that they have
they have no i don't hope sean hannity goes down i don't hope that uh people like tucker
carlsson go down i hope they get bigger and bigger i have four children and you have people what is
your problem mainline conservatives celebrating we're under attack you're idiots once they get us
you're next i mean people like ben Shapiro have a serious serious problem with coming at us like
that i mean ben Shapiro you know constantly makes jokes at our expense and everything but then ben
Shapiro goes out to berkeley or even some other you know slightly left less left wing college
and they call him a nut he's a jew he's an orthodox jew and ben Shapiro gets called a nazi by the way i
like i like ben Shapiro i don't really i see a stuff i agree with he's a smart guy and i but i get it
we're under attack it's an easy thing to differentiate himself and say oh i'm reasonable
we don't want to be in the middle of this thing so i'm gonna explain something i'm not trying to win
popularity contest like ben Shapiro or other people i'm here to get people thinking we trailblazed
the entire opening of the movement and people like matt drudge got it matt drudge helped us we were
already on the map go to the next level and i don't give credit for no reason matt drudge went
through a lot of heat for that i know but matt knew we were telling the truth he's reading the same
news we're reading he said we were a talk show host he didn't want to be on the air anymore so he
knew we were covering the same stuff remember hearing drudge like you know 15 years ago about
cloning and human animal kami eras well don't you know when drudge hears me being attacked for that
you'll see drudge put up a big article from the japan times or writers about human animal
kai we're covering real stuff just because that shocks ben Shapiro and he doesn't want to talk
about it because he wants to be kind of on the end crowd you be part of the end crowd i left high
school a long time ago yeah and and and the thing is we like you said we don't need it's not a
popularity contest we don't need to bring them down because they're attacking us but all we're
saying is stop stop the infighting for no reason because ben Shapiro you can do your normal your
normal middle of the road conservative thing all you want that's fine it brings people into the
movement all that different stuff ben Shapiro's brought a lot of college students into thinking
yeah he's great he's very well spoken and it takes different folks take hand of so-and-s
paul Watson says you got to get her on she's super talented have her on five or six times
she gets hired uh by that big group trumps involved with about waking the the uh
colleges up what's the name of any point turning point i was on the plane flying back to austin
once with the head of turning point and then but now that she's on fox news time and wherever we
call her oh we're not cool enough hey kandace i was offered fox news shows three times it's not
we even need you on the show we had you on to boost you because you're a smart big person
having you on after the big story doesn't do anything for us we we push you because you are
articulate and smart and cool you understand you're not safe going with the mainline republicans
that's how they keep you on the reservation i think khanye west understands that yeah khanye
west really does and the thing is a lot of things we're not trying to get accepted we're trying to
overturn the whole paradigm here yeah and a lot of people a lot of people are now using it to say
because they um certain conservative voices were like oh don't listen to khanye west for your
political opinions and nobody said nobody ever said that you should do that because now he's
going back and it's about his courage to say there's simply free speech and even and what
happened to us where that's a big deal to have that courage to say i support the president and
even if he's still a liberal because he said my hero emigans aulis he's still serving to normalize
our type of politics in the mainstream he's still a major cultural he's standing up for free thought
by the way do we have the jordan peterson clip
i saw this clip because i like jordan peterson i saw a few of his things and
you know the crazy debates he's in where they make stuff up about him he's this well-spoken
professor and everything in the left's really straight up so i watched a couple hours of him
last night this morning and this is carl yung psychology but it's also just self-evident
truth that little wimpy weirdos want to dominate control they want emasculated males so they don't
have any competition and i've always said this the weird twisted betas i found are the ones that
get together and set up tyrannies like hitler and others and so you're never going to see virtue
out of one of these people and uh here is the video part of the video where peterson what's
the exact headline i'm going for memory i'm hella prompter free it was uh why why weak men can't
be virtuous here it is but if you only know how to behave you're just a domesticated house cat
or or a lap dog you have to be you have to push beyond the persona and that's what the integration
of the shadow does from the union perspective it's like to pull that monster that's being edited out
of you to pull that back in and to allow that to reveal itself within your within your increasingly
sophisticated way of being and then you're not just a persona so if you want to push back on your
persona uh are you saying that you have to cultivate your dark your shadow is that yeah well from your
path yeah because the thing is you can't you can't escape from your persona unless you can
say no like here's an here's an example from popular culture um in the harry potter series harry
potter's obviously the hero of the story but he's touched by malevolence right the only reason he
can stand up against evil is because there's some evil in him that that he's incorporated essentially
well that's exactly right and that the persona that the if you're a persona then you're an obedient
citizen but the problem with being an obedient citizen is that if the society tells you to
march the jews off to the death camp for example and you're obedient then that's what you'll do
and it doesn't it isn't like society is civilized then all of a sudden you're performing some
act of a success of approximation how it works it's like you're your obedient citizen and then
you're asked to violate your conscience a little bit yeah and you you have to because you don't
have anything other than that persona and so let's stop right there and i think this interpretation
of carl young is and i know he's doing it for the public he's a smart guy it's an oversimplification
because i wouldn't even call it the shadow you've got conformity but if conformity means evil it's
your light side is saying you can't conform with this evil you've got to go ahead and get in their
face but i agree if you have a knowledge of evil then you understand what's happening with evil
some of the purest people are totally blind to it because they're so pure those of us that have
kind of a wicked side that though it's a smaller side can actually see into it i think that's what
he's getting to it's a larger lecture it's it's it's it's worth watching and that's why they
definitely are scared of martin jake loyte was whipping today info wars reporter at the jeff bezos
a new amazon foods whole foods is now amazon's inorganic food is their new slogan info wars
life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source
prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity
and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture floral life
as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the gut so this is
the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products
you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out
of a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with it's sold out for another
month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way
with this fiber get yours today info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars
life dot com to secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists
to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula available vitamin
mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars
life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super metal vitality and
so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for
maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral products
and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived
or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest
secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot com and
vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out hey did you know that you can now preserve
your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now
is the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to info wars
store dot com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to
use and let me tell you something it is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy
products desserts and entire meals whoo that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional
methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store
there is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste
color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what i call
the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable
freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at info wars store dot com i'm not
a rocket scientist but i know to go out and check the top side to see what they say and they have
talked about for decades that a lot of the mental disorders a lot of the behavioral disorders a lot
of the autism spectrum disorders are in the gut from the diets and vaccines that trigger auto
immune responses in the stomach that then create major toxicity in the gut causing toxicity in the
brain here's a big bbc report today how bacteria are changing your mood if you have the wrong ones
you're depressed well ladies and gentlemen it's been sold out for much micho zx is back anti-fungal
anti-east anti-candida that goes in and knocks out the walls in your intestines where these things
colonize it and put a slime wall in but the nutrients go through they get what they want
first they colonize you then they secrete toxins in you they cause depression they can even secrete
toxins when they want more sugar this is well known nukem with micho zx exclusively at info wars
live dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
and we'll be back tomorrow with the weekday transmission 11am to 3pm and other broadcasts
at info wars dot com forward slash show we got the free podcast all the rest of it uh jake
loyde here with me uh how would you just briefly jake loyde how would you uh describe what we
witnessed at the uh jeff bezos uh whole foods amazon foods headquarters now here in austin
texas well briefly we went in just to look at the supplements that they're selling you know they're
very very similar to the ones that we sell uh similar just private labeled we go in there and
we have a few people a few brainwashed people snickering at us a lot of fans and then we have
some uh rena cops that come over and they're a little bit uh one of them's okay one of them's
nice another one of them kind of gets on a power trip a little bit uh kind of after we've already
left and are at the edge of the property yeah we're we're stepping on to the sidewalk and everything
and he's like okay listen up listen up i'm going to give you one last warning so we step off on
the sidewalk and he keeps wanting to give attitude and then alex there in the video is just trying
to figure out if they'll try to call the cops if we go get our cars because we're parked in the
parking garage and they won't give an answer they just keep saying step off step off step off so it was
you know who's interesting and again it's about jeff bezos who makes his money off taxpayers and
his tax exempt in the dollar 50 per package making 12 billion last monday let's go ahead and roll this
report jeff bezos is a criminal who is anti-free market and anti-america and we came out here
nicely to cover it and he had one of his goons getting our face so now i'm coming down here i
swear to god at least five times in the next month to bullhorn this facility jeff bezos amazon
unorganic food headquarters the incident followers dot com reports on info wars dot com right now
we're at whole paycheck or now uh not at whole foods but amazon foods so we're here at hey how's
it going guys how's it going man come on over and talk to us other folks are scared of us how you're
doing we're here in whole paycheck oh you know jeff bezos owns this now right no i don't know
the guy that owns amazon the richest guy in the world uh he made 12 billion bucks last week that's
the same you know how he makes it no he's got monopolies and he's tax exempt offshore and he
gets a dollar 50 on every package shipped by the post office of his package as he gets a dollar
50 from taxpayers yeah is that pretty amazing yeah that's pretty amazing all right guys i was just
saying hi you guys want to say hi all right thank you man
oh pardon me man we're just here checking out amazon this new amazon shopping center
and as you can see nobody said anything to us yet i thought they would
these folks want to talk to us come on over come on over it's all right
all right there's still a person down here in this great thing how you doing
we're here visiting the amazon shopping center you can do it see leftist can never talk they're
unable to hey how's it going man again a couple questions i am officer baren with christian
security now it's jones nice to meet you so so what's this i know why you guys are filming for
you bet well we're not filming we're shooting live video okay well what is your intention
for trying to do this for our intention is uh kind of like you see michael morgo's in his shows
things and talks to people jeff bezos has now bought whole foods and so we wanted to come
show people now that the world headquarters of whole foods is now the world headquarters of amazon
foods and that we wanted to then see if people knew about jeff bezos and you're just about the fact
that uh he's a big globalist he pushes anti capitalist agenda publicly but then he's the
richest man in the world to make 12 million dollars in one day last week so we're just simply here in
about i've been a customer here since they just since it was the old one over there 10 years ago
and i was a customer there for about 10 years it's like i was a book people so i've been here many
times i'm just here to uh walk around and actually show people in the live ecosystem here uh at amazon
foods well our management here is actually asked to just quit recording because they don't feel
comfortable with it you know we always have it sure sure that's reasonable can i talk to the
management i'm gonna hold along to see if i'm willing to talk to you when i'm just gonna
pass down finally so no no no no understand what will this we're happy to go i've always
wanted to come shopping later but we're happy to go that's reasonable this is private property
this is bezos's private property he doesn't respect ours he lobbies to in small family
homes he wants 250 square foot coffee departments uzay called for that last week he doesn't want
you to have any money but he made 12 million dollars in one day last week but i agree with
this for property rights and i agree with this security officer's point that this is private
property and they've asked us to stop filming. So what we're going to do is we're going to go
wait outside on the property line. And if you can see the whole talk to the sir, we love to talk to him.
I'll get that thing here. Thank you so much for honoring the private property. Thank you. Thank you.
Let's go ahead and go outside. So there you go. We are honoring private property right now.
We're going to raise those lobbies viciously to him. Dude, let me call you people real fast.
All right, pause right there. And so we're outside and we're on the corner of the property
and a guy charges up and says, I'm going to call the cops on you. And I'm like, that's fine.
We're about to turn the cameras off. Can I just get my car? He wouldn't answer.
Yeah, I mean, we were wrapping up the video. We were about to wrap up the
transmission, get off the phones and everything. And no one's around us. We're on the like,
there's like a park, that little park there. We're at the very corner. No one's around us.
It's us. It's just us standing there. And there's two girls sitting on a bench. They weren't even
there. And it's not like they were eating Whole Foods products or anything. They were just sitting
there. So they're just hanging out. They're loitering on, you know, I guess that's Whole Foods
property still. And then we say, well, we're going to step off on the sidewalk here now.
They're like, well, it's a private prop. That's a private sidewalk,
but then they keep telling us to hop down there. Or they're going to call the police.
So it doesn't, even that story doesn't line up. Well, it just shows the jerk. The first guy was
nice. Yeah. And the other guy's doing his job. Point is it's about Jeff Bezos, Bezos, whatever
you want to say. I'm not going to give the rest of it. It's on him for worse.com. But
he gets taxpayer money. He can make 12 billion a day. That's fine. We're not against free market,
but then he funds Black Lives Matter. He funds Antifa. He funds the Socialist. He works with
Soros. He funds the Washington Post trying to stop our movement. And the big thing is,
I showed my wife this morning, she was asking me about this before I went out there.
He, if you go to Washington Post and type in Alex Jones or just in the search engine,
Alex Jones, Washington Post.com, snake oil. There's all these articles saying I'm a snake
mole salesman. I sell multivitamins. I sell amino acids. I sell like the highest quality stuff.
Bezos can make billions a year, but I can't make millions to fund our operation. I'm bad.
And the left comes like Comedy Central confronted me in DC and ABC and CBS and NBC. You sell something
once you're a con man. And I go, I sell the very same ones, but even better. And they go,
shut up. We're not talking about it. Right. And Jeff Bezos, like you said, his money comes from
these government subsidized monopolies. The government funds him to take over an industry,
to take over these different aspects of the economy. And then with that money, he goes,
like you said, and funds Black Lives Matter. So it's the government using this opportunity
to fund these, these anti-liberty movements. And then just like the Clinton Foundation,
the money goes back to the Democrats. Exactly. That's why they say Trump is quote,
obsessed with Amazon. Yeah, because it's the shadow government. You don't just think he really
made, no one's ever made $14 billion in six months. He made it one day. The guy's gonna
be worth like $500 billion in a few months. He's taking everything over. He's taking over all the
public housing. He just, he's just taking everything over, but he's liberal and pays no taxes. And the
left's like, he pays no tax. He is worth $140 billion. We worship Bezos, Bezos, Bezos.
And he is in Amazon. Aren't they making the cloud for the Pentagon now? Aren't they gonna
do everything? And that doesn't set off any alarm bells in anybody's brain. The fact that
the government subsidizes this guy's entire corporate life. And then he has these contracts
with the government to store all of your data that the government is in. But it's even in the news
that the staff say they're going away from organic. They're getting crap now. I mean,
well, they're moving away. They used to, they used to bring in different, different brands
and sell them there. Now they're trying to bring it all in and be, only sell Whole Foods brand.
They're there. There's three, six, five or whatever it's called. They're trying to only sell Whole
Foods brand so that all of the money comes back. The left will buy it. Let me tell you something.
They eat radioactive, you know, sludge of Bezos. I'm telling you, man, he snap his finger. You're
racist. If you don't, they'd run into Chernobyl, just start gobbling radiation. I mean, if you
told the left to throw their kid off a cliff, they'd do it. They just want to virtue some signal.
Well, it's purely virtue signaling the food, isn't it? The food's no good anymore. And
it's all about, it's just about the cult. It's about the cult of being trendy, the cult of just
Oh, they've got all these magazines about austerity and how to be poor and how sexy it is. That's
Bezos. Well, we'll be back tomorrow with David night in the morning, 8am, myself at 11am. And
then we've got Owen Troyer and others at three o'clock central. We sell high quality supplements
that are game changers, air filtration, water filtration. We sell a four stage HIPAA filter
for $200. That's at regular price when the leading competitor is $400, $500, $600. And ours is just
good. We've got the whole body support bodies, ultimate turmeric formula with 95% curcumin and
rating. Stuff sold at Whole Foods on average is a 3% curcumin and rating. It's amazing. Super
blue, complete combo pack, the toothpaste, the mouthwash and more 33% off. We've got so much more
super metal vitality, cold pressed, great herbs and more 50% off. Those sales are all about to end
and we're not Amazon. We promote the Second Amendment. We promote freedom. We promote Americana.
You fund us. We're not based us 12 billion a day. God, we had a billion dollars in 20 years. We
beat them, but it just shows how sick this all is. Thousands of five star reviews for our products
infowarstore.com or go right over to Whole Foods or right over to Amazon. Some people say, well,
you've got an Amazon account. Yeah. So I can keep all the counterfeits off all the fake stuff. I
don't promote it. We sell stuff whole price. You have to have an account with them to kick
all the counterfeits and fakes off. That's what we have one there, but we do not promote it.
Buy it from infowarstore.com. Thank you, Jake Lloyd. Thank you, crew. See you back tomorrow.
Lord willing.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowar's life. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the
night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural
mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day infowar's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowar'slife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowar'slife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an infowar's life.
It'd take hours. Michael's EX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation
in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock. The real red pill,
it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural
hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So
you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can
also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more. Without
you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so
essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution.
