Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Over 20 years ago, Alex Jones created the media platform called Infowars, and in the
decade since, it's grown into a truly remarkable institution with over 200 radio affiliates.
Tens of millions of unique website visitors monthly, and a 24-7 live news TV channel broadcasting
from state-of-the-art studios in Austin, Texas.
Infowars has become the most trusted independent news source in the country, dedicated to delivering
breaking news, live coverage of special events, and exclusive reports you won't find anywhere else.
While the old-guard media struggles to maintain supremacy in a landscape
brought by innovation and technology, Infowars has been at the forefront of the information revolution.
From 8 million radio listeners, over 2 million YouTube subscribers, or the billions of views
of our online content, Infowars proves dominant in every facet of media we enter.
For the hardest-hitting reports, uncompromising analysis for high-profile interviews and bombshell
revelations accept no substitutes. Demand truth. Demand Infowars.
Infowars, tomorrow's news, today.
They're trying to shoot down Ronnie Jackson right now with a bunch of made-up crap,
but when he worked for Obama, he was the best White House physician since
it was invented. But now he's the devil. What a diversion, what a distraction trying to fix the
broken VA. Comey's hired a very slimy criminal lawyer that tells us a lot, and we now know
there's a special class of people. We already knew about this, and infrastructure protection
rolled out under the Patriot Act. But special government employee is the term.
For someone that has security clearances can get in all your business, but isn't in the government
and isn't paid. So we're going to be breaking that down today. Oh, and Comey's saying, oh,
I didn't leak secret stuff. It was secret. I gave it to someone else to do it. Well,
he should know as the FBI former director that that makes him more guilty. It makes it more
premeditated. Remember, he said in Congress, we ought to pull these clips up. He said, well,
I felt the public needed to know about this. But now he's saying, oh, he just gave it to a friend and
who just was a little special government agent within a university, a little spy, and he leaked it.
I keep using the Scarface analogies because there's so many of them
where the corrupt drug dealers begging Tony Montana to kill him. And he goes, oh, please Tony,
I never killed anybody in my life. I never did nothing. I never. And he goes, no, you just
have somebody else do it for you. Oh, please don't kill me. Please. I'm not going to kill you. Oh,
thank you. Manning shoot that piece. Now we're not talking about physical violence here. We're
talking about the analogy, the allegory. Like we use Star Wars allegories or parallels they fit
in everything. You can use Scarface for that. It's kind of a game. Me and some of my buddies
years ago would play in politics, just comparing it to Scarface because Comey's like, I never leaked
nothing in my life. I never did anything. No, you just had somebody else do it for you.
It's like a mafia boss ordering their capo to have a soldier go kill somebody. Well,
the mafia don, if he gets caught doing that, he gets the death penalty because it's premeditated
Capital One murder. A capital offense. I shot the sheriff, but I did not shoot the deputy.
Freedom came my way one day. I was starting out of town when I saw Sheriff John Brown coming to
shoot me down. So I shot. I shot the sheriff, but I did not shoot. No deputy. It's always great
allegories and parallels to Bob Marley music as well. Because they're all about the legends and
ethos and our types of life that we know are so true and that we see expressed in the real world
daily. We'll be back. President Donald Trump says the US is negotiating for the release of American
hostages in North Korea. President Trump was asked during a joint press conference with the
Japanese Prime Minister whether or not the three Americans release would be a precondition for
sitting down with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Trump said his administration was fighting
very diligently for the safe return of the three captives, adding, we are doing our very best.
As you know, they've been there a long time in its harsh treatment. Trump noted the case of
Otto Warmbier, the American student who died after being released last year by Pyongyang.
The Associated Press quotes a senior White House official who says CIA director Mike Pompeo discussed
the hostages during his trip to North Korea over Easter weekend. The official says Mr. Trump is
hopeful they'll be released soon. The president says the face-to-face with Kim Jong-un will likely
take place in early June, but he added that if the meeting is not going to be fruitful,
he will respectfully leave. We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center
in the heart of the resistance. It's Alex Jones.
I am extremely frustrated.
I am extremely upset
with myself for not having a way to properly quantify, break down, lay out
just how insane and evil this situation is we face. Now there's great positivity to that
because the evils here, the corruptions here, the bad things are going on and good people
admitting it's happening and saying no and getting out of their comfort zone
is the way to stop it.
Yesterday I spent 10 minutes on one story that I could have spent four hours on
and I got all this new breaking news and I just can't help but go back to it.
And then I think about all the new revelations of
social services all over the world and the police in many areas, especially liberal and
socialist and globalist areas, kidnapping children, selling them into sex slavery,
and it just gets worse from there. And it's now in the London Independent,
the Telegraph and other publications, right about reporting on it yesterday,
in Telford, major town, major city, grooming scandal, former social services boss, local
lawmakers exposed as pedophiles and they would grab the kids from their parents and then give
them to the pedophile groups or they would cover up for the pedophile groups, mainly Muslims,
operating giant industrial operations. Now you've all heard about grooming scandals,
there's hundreds of them. Every town basically is run by pedophiles, almost every town, who then
bring in the Muslims who are like the Renfields to Dracula, who go out and procure. That's why
the globalists love the Muslim culture because it is about harems, chained up women in sex
dungeon, that's what a harem is. But you know when you're growing up watching Saturday morning
cartoons and Bugs Bunny falls into a harem, it's a bunch of pretty girl rabbits sitting around on
pink pillows. The propaganda is everywhere and it just goes on and on and on and when you break
through one level of it, it just falls into this subterranean nightmare and then it ties into Penn
State president indicted for knowing about the pedophilia and covering it up and obviously it
goes way deeper than that and just all of it, the industrial scale and the Vatican and the deputy
pope, the number two guy was in the news for two days, he reportedly trafficked over 100 boys
for blackmail and the Vatican and where is that now? Where is it now? So we're going to be getting
into that some, it's just one level to this. Here's another article, BBC, Establishment,
how bacteria are changing your mood and they admit that a lot of depression is linked to yeast,
candida, mold and bad toxic bacteria in the gut from pesticides precipitating and knocking out the
good bacteria and then yeast and mold slime walls come in and take over and of course medical doctors
that did studies decades ago got demonized for saying they're finding antibodies for measles,
mumps, rubella and other things in the guts of children that have been vaccinated and they've
directly linked it to the brain damage and the autism amongst other things. Even the New York
Times admits that 20 years after I had scientist and nutritionist and gut experts on telling you
that, this is all known. But when I talked about Myco ZX a few years ago, that is a super powerful
concentrated herbal formula of known compounds to destroy the slime walls in the intestines created
by yeast, mold and candida, they take over your gut, they put in their own wall between your
intestine wall and the food, the nutrients and they then extract it, they then release toxins,
they take a dump in your stomach, in your intestines, upper and lower intestines, start to get gross
here and this is the number one thing linked to depression and health issues and skin issues and
they know it and when we came out and talked about this, they demonize us all over mainstream media
and make fun of us claiming the headlines were, Jones invents a fake problem in the gut to sell
you something. It's like David Hogg on C-Spain, he goes, Jones says that there's chemicals in the
water hurting us and then he goes to a commercial for water filters. Interesting. Oh, you're such a
genius Hogg, we tried to sneak it past the viewers. We say you need water filtration, it's the number
one thing you can do because of the thousands in some cases, usually hundreds of chemicals and
derivatives in the water supply, the drug runoff, the atrazine, the fluoride, the mercury, the lead,
the, it goes on and on. Yes, I filter my water. Yes, I have air filtration in my house. In fact,
I think you get the air filter turned on over there and I don't think it's turned on right now, thanks.
Yes, we sell you the lifestyle we're trying to live that's a better one, a healthier one, absolutely.
We want to fund ourselves promoting health, promoting things that are good
and then sell things that are moral and good that we use in the 360 win. Instead, you watch
the very channels criticizing us, attacking us, Comedy Central, Co-Bear, NBC, CBS,
they will sit there with literal serotonin reuptake inhibitor ads during the breaks and
all these other drug ads of things they admit can cause you to commit suicide, become a mass
murder, you name it, that eat holes in your brain that cause all sorts of problems linked to massive
cancer. They're selling you pure death and not telling you in hundreds of studies something
like 5-HTP. That's just a chemical that's in the brain naturally. You can buy for 20 bucks
in all the studies is way better for your quote mood and doesn't kill you like these drugs.
Now,
I got so much to hit here, we're going to hit it all today,
but I thought that I would just
point out that it's next year's news today, it's next decade's news today, it's the news
20 years from now today because this stuff's already all known. They were having human animal
clones 25 years ago. They had human clones 30 plus years ago, it's in the mainline literature.
They just kill them at the embryonic level and if you believe they really kill them in the test
tube, I got a bridge I want to sell you and some oceanfront property in Arizona and from my front
port you can see the sea. So absolutely, I'm going to plug right up front since this is it
back in the news. Myco ZX was sold out for six months, it's so hard to procure the compounds
and make sure they pass California standards, it's almost impossible, it's designed that way,
but this last batch did. That was everything you get a whole food says doesn't pass California
standards, but we're able to do it. Jeff Bezos doesn't. It's now available back in stock,
the other side of the paradigm for a probiotic, but this is to knock out the bad yeast mold,
Candida, the slime walls and it is dramatic and everything in it's healthy and really,
really good for your body in many other ways. It's very concentrated, there's about three
regimens, do this every few months, take it for a week and it's changed so many people's lives.
Bodies is back in stock, the ultimate, strongest formula for my research out there,
a 95 curcuminin level from the turmeric and it's got five other compounds that supercharge it
and it is the strongest, highest rated out there right now because I'm sure somebody will figure
out how to make it stronger, 95 percent curcuminin and we'll go to that. This is 95 percent,
leading competitors are 3 percent curcuminin. M4warstore.com, M4warstore.com. When you're
being bombarded by the cell phone radiation by all the garbage, it is essential that you have
the antioxidants and things to detoxify the body. Bodies, ultimate turmeric formula is amazing.
Sign up for auto-ship with an additional 10 percent off. M4warstore.com, M4warstore.com or
AAA-253-3139. By the way, it's 25 percent off of those products right now. Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required. Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat
right from the pouch or warm and serve. Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday
use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com. ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and
drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that
something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of
people's lives across America. My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent
should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online
hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain
its nutrition and flavor? That's right. Now's the time to build your own food storage with
Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and
smart technology that's easy to use. And let me tell you something. It is perfect for freeze drying
fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals. That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating,
you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison. Harvest Rights Freeze
Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life
of up to 25 years. Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest
Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
Infowars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting,
chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact,
current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
We keep telling them that if they accept this blood money, they're against the children.
They're against the people who are dying and that there's no other way to put it at this point.
You're either funding the killers or you are standing with the children, the children who
have no money. We don't have jobs.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Let me just mention last time this is cell phone radiation. This is your brain on cell
phone and wireless radiation. Any questions? This message is brought to you by infowars.com
in the hopes that if you're going to fry your brain and body with radiation,
that's your business. For God's sake, let's protect our children.
We are back live. I want to air this Harrison Smith report that's important about the UK cutting
down US trees to quote, stop global warming. I'm not kidding. That's how insane the fraud is.
Then we're going to come back and get into the massive news where China is now
using social credit score to not let people travel or fly on airplanes.
They're going to bring this total control system here. That's coming up in the next
segment. Here's Harrison's report. Today is April 24th, 2018. According to the Guardian,
the UK has been powered without coal for three days in a row, setting a new record and underlining
the polluting fuels rapid decline. This was seen as a big victory in the fight against
global warming or what is now called climate change because they're trying to phase out
coal as it is a carbon producing pollutant. But there is a slight catch as the Guardian reports,
without this fossil fuel, nearly a third of Britain's electricity was supplied by gas,
followed by wind farms and nuclear on around a quarter each. But the most important part is
this next line. The rest came from biomass burned at Drax power station in North Yorkshire.
Now, biomass is the fancy term for any sort of organic compound that is burned for fuel.
This is presented as a earth friendly alternative to coal. But if we look in just a little bit
deeper, we find that that is not the case. And here's the reason why. Huge areas of hardwood
forests in the state of Virginia are being chainsawed to create biomass energy in Britain as
the government attempts to reach targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to tackle
climate change. So that means that instead of using coal in their effort to do away with coal,
which has been branded as a bad fuel source, they have turned to cutting down old growth,
slow growth force in Virginia, chopping up those trees into tiny pellets and shipping those to
the UK to be burned in their power plants. Now, on its face, this is a ridiculous proposal. The
idea that using coal is somehow more impactful to the environment than cutting down slow growth,
old growth force in Virginia and using that material to burn, it doesn't make any sense
on its face. But as you look more into it, the more ridiculous it becomes. The power station
giant claims that burning pellets instead of coal reduces carbon emissions by more than 80%.
However, dispatches, which is a program on Channel 4, BBC's Channel 4, conducted a simple
experiment at a laboratory at the University of Nottingham to compare the carbon dioxide emitted
when burning wood pellets similar to those used by Drax instead of coal. It found that to burn
an amount of wood pellets that would generate the same amount of electricity as coal, it would
actually produce roughly 8% more carbon. So that's just on its surface. They tell you that burning
this biomass will reduce less CO2, but studies at the Nottingham University have revealed that
that's not true. In fact, burning the wood pellets produces more CO2, and that's not even considering
the transportation and the cutting down of the trees, which themselves act as a filter to get
rid of the CO2. However, it doesn't end there. It actually gets even more ridiculous. On the
question of Drax claims that by burning wood instead of coal, it reduces carbon emissions by
more than 80%, cost-admitted, it doesn't include emissions from its chimneys. We don't count that,
he says. The government doesn't count that. It doesn't include stack emissions because if we're
sourcing sustainable biomass from working forests, where this is more growth than is being harbored
or harvested, we see the carbon being reabsorbed. So I tried to wrap my head around this, and I
really can't. I guess what he's saying is because they're using trees that they've chopped down
and chopped up as biomass, somehow the CO2 is going to be reabsorbed by the new trees that
they plant. But if you just chop down trees, then they aren't taking in as much CO2. You're just
taking things that typically remove CO2, and you're burning those, creating more CO2, but it's okay
because using that sustainable biomass means that the trees will grow more and absorb more CO2.
It literally doesn't make any sense. It's a policy that's costing taxpayers more than 700
million pounds per year through a levy on their electricity bills. That means that people in
the UK are paying an extra 700 million dollars in order to get off of coal and onto this biomass,
which again sounds good, but most definitely isn't. So this alone highlights how the goals
of the left, the goals purported by the left, such as trying to tamp down on carbon emissions,
trying to prevent global warming, trying to prevent climate change. In reality, they're just
scams of the highest order. They are preying on people's desire to do good, on people's desire
to do something to help save the earth, and they're taking that desire and they're warping it to make
money. They're taking advantage of that desire to sell a product and fill their own pockets.
The people selling these forests are making money. The people shipping the material
are making money. The people burning the material are making money, and it's mostly being paid for
by the UK taxpayers by a levy on their electricity bills. So they don't have a choice. They are
going to be, this money is going to be taken from them, whether they want it to be or not.
So that's what we mean. That's what I mean when I say I don't believe in climate change or I don't
believe in global warming. It's not that I don't understand the concept of greenhouse gases and
of sunlight being trapped and of the heat going up and melting the poles. I get all of that. The
issue is that the solutions being proposed are not only not helping the problem that we're being
faced with, they actually make it worse. And in many instances, even just questioning the efficacy
of these programs is tantamount to being a religious heretic. It's, you're called a denier
if you don't believe exactly what the elites tell us is happening with the climate. And despite the
fact that what they tell us changes rather often, if you want to talk about the fact that China says
it's producing billions and billions of gallons of rain by manipulating the climate, they say that
doesn't matter. It's really just pollution and really you just need to give us your money so we
can go take care of it. You say, all right, you believe them and they end up cutting down
slow growth, old growth forests in Virginia to just to trick you. They're just tricking you
into giving them money to continue to destroy the earth while patting themselves on the back
and pretending like they're doing something good. For Infowars.com, this has been Harrison Smith.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed. This year, resolve not to be the next victim
of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside
is watching TV, even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset and fake TV should be
part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful. Fake TV.com. You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Schipp. I'm a former decorated CIA officer. Finally, someone has come out and
written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever. We're in a constitutional
crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government. We've got to get
this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are. This is critical
to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a surgeon. Get them right now at
KillingUncleSamBuck.com. KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and
development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the
best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son
Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory
and brain function. Something the globalists are targeting. Visit infowars.com today or call
888-253-3139. Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead. Oh, Alex, you can rent any
day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to
save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force,
Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too. Thank you.
I use the BioTrue Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big, normal
toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars life
products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that
for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely. Because then we could all as educated patriots help our
other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our
houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWars life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit,
and flax fiber. Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system. InfoWars
life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied
ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our
premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are live. We are broadcasting worldwide. It was four years ago
that Paul Joseph Watson and myself, Alex Jones, covered it live on air and wrote three news
stories in one month about China announcing a new social credit score that would be tied into not
just the internet, not just your job, not just your travel, not just your national ID card,
but into millions of cameras all over China tracking your every movement
and your smartphone tracking your every movement integrated in together.
And now it's being reported Chinese journalists ban from flying, buying property under new social
credit score system. They have a name for that. It's called the Mark of the Beast.
Total control. And they're now testing it in 16 cities. They can scan the entire population
of China's faces in one second, 1.3 billion. We call it the Mark of the Beast. You shall buy
and or sell without it on a global scale. They call it Skynet. And if you read my book to sit
into tyranny, 2002, it's free online, out of print. I just stopped printing them after we sold
120,000 of them. I don't know why I did that. I thought, well, I'll just put out for free. And
then no one cared once it was free. Everyone bought it when it cost $15. But it's free online,
descent into tyranny. And I was on Scripps and other places. You can go there and you can read
where I show the declassified DARPA program from 1977 declassified in 2000,
declassified the next year. And they call the global grid between smart dust on the ground,
the internet, the internet of things, aircraft, the satellites, the surveillance cameras,
the digital number to buy and sell. Guess what they call it in the DARPA blend? Skynet.
And the common Chinese call it Skynet. And it's the worldwide system. China is where
all the big corporations are moving. Apple's moving there. Two months ago, Reuters reported
they're giving them the keys to everyone's Apple ID and control of the Apple Cloud and the Apple
executive, Mr. Cook, said in the article, he said, well, it's normal when you move your business to
China that you let the government in and you put their agents in key positions of control.
And of course, why did they do it? Because you get 0% tax in China if you're a major
corporation, if you move there, zero. And I harped on that quite a bit, did not,
because we were at 40%. China was at 15. We wouldn't have anybody headquartered here because of it.
Trump lowered us to 15. To be fair, Ernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, all the regular
kleptocrats, love China zero percent tax because they're good globalists. But when Trump wanted
15%, it was about hurting the poor. And Falun Gong, Buddhist, about to have their organs taken,
don't know what it's like to be alive. I'm liberal. My wife swindles universities, though.
I bankrupt stuff. I live in $3 million houses, $100,000 cars, but why people don't know what
it's like to be poor? Listen to me, I got Einstein looking here. It's called a gimmick.
Again, I honeymooned in Soviet Russia in the 70s, all day knew how to treat a Christian there.
We almost had those Russians down. We'll get them again. No, don't worry. I'm a big man. I'm
plenty. Here, here, here. Let's hear him say white people don't know what it's like to be poor. Do
we have that? Do you know? So there you go. China assigns every citizen a social credit score to
identify who is and who isn't trustworthy. Can we search engine info wars.com? Click web
info wars.com China social score system to go global. China social source system to stop political
distance from traveling, being able to get food or having a job, basically a death penalty.
China social score should be turned into global mark of the beast. Yeah, that's one from March
of 2018. That's just does linking to a sun article. No, no, we broke it four years ago.
Just want to show TV viewers because you need to understand why we're under attack
and why they're coming after us here. I'll look it up on my phone just to see how fast I can do it.
Let's just go there and really can't go to Google anymore because they just delist all the
searches. They're a totally fake search engine now. They admit that but being is kind of the old
Google, you know, it's Microsoft and you can look it up and you just say info wars.com.
We find it. Yeah, that's 2015. That's not our first one, but it'll do. Thank you. I've
read that for me. Come into America. China introduces credit score for obedient citizens.
And then we lay out Paul Joseph Watson exactly how the danger would work and how it be used as
a mark of the beast control grid because that's what authoritarians would do. Thank you for finding
that tomorrow's news today. So we'll be getting into more of that. This is what they're doing.
Now, how are they going to sell it? How are they going to push it? How are they going to
get it through on everybody? When we come back, I'll break it down. But the AP this week,
Associated Press, Hillary Rodham Clinton, good old Hillary Rodham Clinton, AP, Hillary Rodham Clinton
and of course now a bunch of other publications
including Jim Acosta are calling for it to be illegal
to criticize mainstream media. They want it to be a hate crime. They've already kind of done that
in Europe and you think, oh, they'll never get that done. Oh, really? It's a perfect storm. The
old dying media, the corrupt dying elements of the government, the big global corporations having
their carte blanche taken away from them as nationalism and common sense and free market
and populism comes back. They're moving to shut us down right now. Meanwhile, FEC records indicate
Hillary campaign illegally laundered $84 million. Oh, yeah. That's what they use the foundation for.
Everybody's being careful here saying, indicating no, they're caught red-handed. That's what the
foundation's for. And James Comey's gotten himself one of the slumiest criminal lawyers there is
and he's been caught criminally leaking, but he says it's okay. He did it through
a secret government agent that runs the university, a special government employees, what they're called.
We're going to tell you all about that. We first broke that.
17 years ago with the passage of the first Patriot Act, I'll tell you all about it.
More than 3 million people have secret federal badges in America. I know some of them. They carry
guns on airplanes, everything. They got their little federal ID card. They get to get it all
the databases, everything else. And it's the auxiliary and it's the professors and it's the
local leftist police chiefs, the local ADL, the local Southern Barbie Law Center. They're all
secret federal officers. We'll tell you all about it when we come back. And they think they got you
by the shorthairs, but I say they don't. I say truth will restore the republic.
Spread the live links to the forewinds. Fill everybody with the broadcast. You are the only hope.
In FullWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best
source prebiotic fiber. And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity
and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture,
floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really,
really big savings and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce
these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could
come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products,
we have it in FullWarsLife. It'd take hours. MycoZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone,
that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and
the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. And our latest product that goes great with
the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune
gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine,
super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for
remembering in FullWarsLife.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again,
thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated
with detoxifying the body and it supports the M4. It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula
that I personally have been taking for over a year. And now we believe we have come as close to
perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get. You owe it to yourself,
you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that Patriots
stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of
America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you
can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time
to change our bodies with ZShield and in FullWarsLife.com. Choose to take control of your chemistry
with SurvivalShield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health. Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source
of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. SurvivalShield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together
to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of SurvivalShield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign, is here in town. He'll be in
studio in the middle of the next hour and we have several other big guests I'll tell you about coming
up. I've already mentioned some of the news but I want to burrow into some of the really big news
here because there's just so many angles to all of this. Let me just mention some of this now.
Blue Wave Fizzles as AP declares Republican winner of Arizona's special congressional
election to be the Republican. We'll get to that. Tucker to GOP says run against openly extremist
racist dims, not Hillary Clinton. Do I agree with that? I'll get into it in a minute.
FEC records suggest Clinton campaign laundered 84 million in FullWars.com. Jamie White key article
to get out. I changed the word suggest to indicate, document, show. Associated Press
suggests criticizing journalists is hate speech, wanted banned. Paul Joseph Watson article,
unbelievable. CNN's Acosta, there's video of this. Trump supporters don't have all their
faculties goes on to say that Trump's threatening journalist and going to get them hurt that it's
hate speech. And then another article does the First Amendment protect conspiracy theorist.
The article calls me a cockroach from WBUR, lies about what I've said, twist everything,
and then calls for my speech to be taken. But only as I'm a conspiracy theorist. See,
because they label me that. And Hitler only said take Jews free speech. Meanwhile, Hillary went on
F-laced tirade against Trump during 2016 debate prep. And the big news research, Google search
manipulation can swing nearly 80% of undecided voters that in a new major study by the American
Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology. That's basically DARPA. That group's 90% DARPA
funded. So DARPA says, wow, Google can swing 80% of people by only showing negative search results.
Do an Alex Jones search now. In the last year, and we have some of the internal contracts that
Mike Cernovich got and Google admitted they were real, they were paying in one contract millions
of dollars for people to just go downvote us everywhere and say they don't like us.
To delist us, to drive info wars from the top and put nothing but lies and you go to YouTube,
you go anywhere. It's all force fed. Similarly, you open up Spotify, the number one music service
in the world. It pushes handmade his daughter about Christians oppressing women in a monotheistic
system that makes them wear hoods over their heads. That's Islam. Then I go to YouTube. It's the top
thing on there. I'm walking down the street last week in Austin. They have a display in a window
about it. There's a billboard. The Christians are oppressing women. The Christians, the Christians,
the Muslims are friends. That's just an example of how they give me all the CNN, ABC news, fake news
on my iPhone feed that I don't ask for. It's just there. Turn my phone on. Everybody. It's
everything at the top of the page is the garbage. It's the force feeding. Trying to drown out the
reality until they're ready to report. Okay, China's arresting Buddhists and killing them good. And if
you criticize the government, you won't be able to buy, sell or travel. And by the way, it's coming
here. So shut your mouths and learn to shut up. And it's already happened. Most of the libertarian
and conservative bloggers, they've lighten their stances. They've backed off. Oh, please don't
demonetize me. And then YouTube doesn't demonetize them. And then the liberals that suddenly,
a bunch of them get banned that are independent and then they stop. Okay, then they're back to
being monetized until the next wave of conditioning and less and less. But everybody just holds on
while there's less and less. Well, I'll still, I'll be the last person groveling and kissing
butt and kissing their feet and doing whatever they say. So I can be on Twitter and Facebook and
YouTube. I'll, I'll, I'll toe the line so I can keep my podcast going until you just know
they're going to do it to everybody. They come to PewDiePie and say, you let us run your life,
or we're going to demonetize you to shut you down. Then they start or Joe Rogan has me on
number one podcast in history, doubling things ever done. They delisting. They don't let him
promote it. A bunch of stuff happens. Hey, Joe, you don't have him back on. You don't have on what's
number one, the two of us together. That's not how you win. You don't win the heavyweight bout by
knocking the guy out. You win by rolling over. You don't win the race car race by actually winning.
There's just the anointed ones and then you get patted on the head and then everybody plays along
with it until there's a social score system in place on every front and everybody's by
successive approximation sells out a little more and a little more and a little more and a little
more until we have nothing and we're like communist China with a Skynet system that can predict
everything we do, where we go, what we're going to buy before we even know we're going to do it.
And that's the goal. Future predictability and future control. Because once you can predict
the future, you can steer the stimuli to control the future. I first told you this 20 years ago.
Two years ago, Google declassified out of their own archives their first meeting
in 1997 before the formation with the NSA and the CIA. This was in Wired Magazine two years ago.
Nico Acosta, the producer said, have you seen this is what you're saying? And I've searched it
and they just admitted all this. He said, how'd you know that? And I said, well, I knew some
insiders but and they admitted because when the NSA was going to give Google their database,
they said, well, this is just a search engine. That's all that it is is an NSA database that's
public that you've interfaced with voluntarily. They said, no, no, no, we're going to feed everybody's
info into it, tie it into the cell towers, people's cameras on their phones, what they buy, what they
sell, all the companies that have a global profile on everybody for social control. We're going to
predict the future. Then we're going to control the future. We're building AI. But it's a neural,
electronic digital silicon interface with biological life forms, not just humans, but all life on earth.
And DARPA and NQTEL and the NSA and the CIA shed maximum support. You will be the global control
system. Hail Google. And here you are and Google and Apple and all of them are moving to China.
And they're doing it. And everything we warned you about 20 years ago is all
admitted. So I'm the bad guy for being telling you 20 years ago and having NSA whistleblowers on.
Being rights bad, being number one's bad, being supported's bad, being pro-humans bad,
being pro-free markets bad, not wanting to be under radical Islamic control and having
Linda Sorcerer on your life. It's all evil. So that's all coming up. China assigns every citizen
a social credit score to identify who is and who isn't trustworthy. And our media's like,
how good we need that too? And oh, don't worry, we told you this was coming. British politicians
declare war on knives, want them licensed because their crime rates now higher than New York City
after they took the guns. So there you go, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, we just learned now
that the Guardian that passages from the Bible were plagiarized into the Quran original manuscript.
Wow, that really shocks me. That's what it is. It's a mixture of a bunch of stuff that
Muhammad was looking at, the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, Judaism, Christianity,
Zoroastrianism, a whole bunch of stuff. That's what the Quran is. If you read all those other
books, it's a kind of a hodgepodge of those. So anyways, continuing. But the Bible is a,
the Jew, it is the Talmud. It's the Old Testament and then the New Testament. So it's a continuation.
But there's so much more I haven't gotten to coming up. I'm going to lay it all out.
The Blue State collapse is accelerating. We'll look at Chicago's nearing collapse.
We're also going to drill back through a lot of what I just mentioned. There's so much coming
up today. But just briefly, think about info wars when you're shopping, when you're getting
supplements, when you're getting water filtration, air filtration, high quality, non-gmo, heirloom
seeds, Patriot apparel so you can meet like-minded people, promote freedom, t-shirts, you name it,
ball caps, infowarstore.com. And perishable things, things you reuse like coffee and supplements
are great to sign up for auto ship. You get additional 10% off. Patriot points in the
month of April are double. So instead of five cents off every dollar, it's 10 cents. That's
a big discount on your Patriot points this month towards future purchases. And it's again,
a little free account right there with the Patriots point system and infowarstore.com.
X2 was going to sell out this week. We got a little emergency shipment in and I've got the 25% off,
though not still going, but it's got to end here. It's got to end by Sunday because it'll be a few
months before we get more in. I'm going to sell out the rest of it at full price. And it's the
good halogen. It's amazing. We're having trouble securing with deep breath crystals. It's the
purest form of iodine out there. It doesn't give myself many others the stomach issues that the
garbage iodine that's bound iodine that's not real atomic iodine causes. So it's in the organic
palm oil. It's simply amazing. Consult your physician before you use it though, because you'll
die without iodine. But at the same time, this is very, very potent, powerful stuff. So be careful
with it. And I would use a third of the dose. Tell you what I personally do when I first started
using it because you have a detox happens in two to four weeks. And that's very interesting what
comes out of your skin, everything else. When you finally have the good halogen that your body
operates off of info wars live.com to secure your extra today. Hour number two straight ahead.
Please tell folks about the stage you're listening to.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that
their president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award
shows to repeat their narrative over and over again. And then they use their ex president to
endorse the resistance all to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and
sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and
airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do
their jobs and stop the madness. And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their
outrage. The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight
this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth. I'm the National Rifle Association of America
and I'm freedom's safest place. You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus
products, we have an info wars life. It take hours. Michael's the X plus and now is a lower price.
It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold,
the candida, it's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the
preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great
with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune
gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine,
a super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all
for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again,
thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution. Hello, this is Hank Hill
and I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting
worldwide. It's Alex Jones. All right, when we kick the next segment off here in about six minutes,
I'm going to really drill into the amazing admissions by the Democrats, the EU, Hollywood,
academia around the world in so-called liberal institutions, the call to silence
Americana, the call to silence populism, the call to silence bold free market defense
and the right of self defense and just everything that's rugged individualism,
the attack on independent humanity because it is absolutely
happening right now and I just feel like we should really raise the alarm here because
this is so simple but at the same time so complex that we need to lay out just how they're going
to do this because we have their plan, we've been living the plan for so long, we know they
follow the plan and that's what's so frustrating is we know how to beat it, we know it's authoritarian,
we know it's really bad news but there's so many yes men and so many people that are just soulless
and lazy and stupid and they'll tell you they're super unhappy no matter how much money they've got
and all they do is just try to have a good time all the time and that's not what built civilization
and I think those of us that are informed are weirdos and don't worry I have a good time too,
I'm having a good time right now this is serious business
and it ties in the governmental pedophilia and all of it's coming out and how they try to spin it
and divert it and use investigations into it that aren't 100% but then say none of it's going on
when it's like saying the sky in blue it's incredible then I saw this video last weekend
I never got to if I want to play it now Jordan Peterson who's just a rock star for saying there's
only two sexes and two genomes there's one genome two two sexes and then the left is
avant garde now if it has someone on saying the sky's blue and it just shows how far down the
rat hole we are of dehumanization how do you end humanity how do you end the family you say don't
say mother or father you say you saying your male or female hurt someone else this is going on
and he says it's a disastrous narrative of victimization that's what it is and the women
are being inducted into me too we're trying to keep blacks who've never been more upwardly mobile
blacks in the us are the richest blacks in the world by far they think they're in literal hell
and you know what have you got a bad attitude it's like going to a party and if you act weird
and creepy and don't act outgoing and make people feel nervous they're not going to like you but if
I want to I'm not saying I miss the cool I can go in any party anywhere I want tell jokes have a
good time and and make friends so I don't care if you're a white person Hispanic black what it is
if you've got a chip on your shoulder and you're nervous you're not going to make friends and so
they are invoking all this under our backs so also coming up one of these clips Jordan Peterson
if Trump gets booted out of office what will happen to his supporters well they're going to be
censored they're going to be targeted people have to understand this isn't going to be like past
elections the globalists the democrats the big banks they're going for broke they admit it's a
civil war against us and they see those of us as the producers as milk cows or like women for gang
raping muslim harems don't understand they have just a savage criminal will to dominate that's their
product dominate culture dominate reproduction dominate industry dominate religion dominate
sovereignty dominate everything and we say no after being sold out for months our best-selling
super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock at info or store.com the first shipment of super
blue sold out in one week i thought it would be a six-month supply for listeners and since then
people are beating down our doors wanting to be able to resupply their super blue research across
the board is clear in fact it's certified when bacteria infect your gums it can enter your
bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks that's why the last surgeon
generals report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire
body super blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula it's loaded with
good halogen iodide so the bad halogen fluoride super blue contains natural oils and ingredients
used biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath just some of the ingredients
in super blue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol peppermint oil iodine nano silver and more
learn more about info wars life super blue toothpaste at info wars life dot com and support
the info war while you support healthy gums and teeth and it's time for humanity to stand up
in the info war and say i don't know what's going to happen at the end of this but you want to fight
you better believe you got one from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
okay last time this is cell phone radiation this is your brain on cell phone and wireless
radiation any questions this message is brought to you by info wars dot com in the hopes that if
you're gonna fry your brain and body with radiation that's your business if god's sake let's protect
our children roger stone is going to be in studio with us coming up the bottom of the hour and then
we're gonna have joining us mark randaza who is a top anti-slap lawyer looking at how the democrats
are suing thousands of prominent libertarians nationalist conservatives veterans groups christian
groups you name it remember under nine years eight years but you had some hangover still
in the eight years of obama and now his last year or so with his deep state and hillary's deep
state still somewhat in in place that was a real Freudian slip i'm going to cover that here just a
moment fact next notice that over those years they targeted more than last time i checked
in the congressional hearings three years ago because it still kept going on
10 000 plus churches non-profit veterans groups nationalist groups conservatives groups
to be shut down and or both criminally charged and then you had msnbc saying
conservatives are evil the tea party's evil they deserve to be audited they deserve to be
shut down they deserve to have their 501c 3 or 4 pulled they deserve to not have speech
but rather than right can say gd america and bring down the us and all other stuff and he
can be tax-free well you have a first amendment congress shall make no law respecting the
establishment religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof then it goes into the press
and the right to assemble and right to petition and redress the grievance you go well then how
do they regulate churches because their church is in name only their charities under 501c 3
and they go out of the church since the 50s into the 501c 3 and now they're regulatable
and they had the ecumenical movement and the big denominations tell the churches to enroll in this
and you still got a lot of churches that have the spirit of god in them and good people that
are 501c 3 i'm not judging that but this intimidation that you can't be pro-life or you can't be pro-gun
if you're a church they're saying that's political congress you'll make no law respecting an
establishment of religion or prohibit the free exercise thereof but that's how they bring in
these stamps and now they're telling you it's policy you got to take vaccines oh it's policy
the kids belong to the state oh it's policy and they're just getting all of us worldwide to
induct ourselves into this so remember the massive persecution of christians by the irs
most of the same people that were there are still there one of trump's failings but
he can't get anybody approved he's hard for him to dig anybody out of there it's it's they're
entrenched a year and a half after he's in office they admit in the news that 80% of the government
went in under clinton bush or obama and they're all on the same team the rhinos and the democrats
the globalist against what trumps trying to do so that's why he's done such an incredible job with
what he's gotten done because this mutiny this rebellion is in place so the persecution of
christians and 501c 3s and others is still going on and they've got the records of our veterans
even officers who served very valiantly and others in other agencies and they won't give
them a job in any academia in any government and they've been told it'll take trump at least another
year so we've got to replace everybody i even learned from an individual it wasn't just a
cia contractor but was a cia leader um for 10 years and he's a well-known guy sometimes i'll
have him on the show he's been in the athletics and stuff like that there's a no although an
athlete champion athlete and it's not tim kennedy and
they know that ut is run by the communist chinese and i heard this a year ago from sources i mean
i knew it but it was even in washington post three months ago and they have a database from the
office the personnel management the 20 plus million first was 15 and 18 and 20 the 22 million names
of every government agent everybody that ever worked for them ever asset their records what their
political affiliation is what their sexual everything the cia has is given to the communist
chinese and you try to go get a job just in the microcosm at ut it's all the key personnel now are
either communist or muslims and actually have communist party meetings where they teach that
fall on gong is bad and killing buddhas is good these are public meetings the communist party at
at at at ut in fact washington post put it on screen that's what i mean the magnitude just where i
live and people i know so trump's been sending this is this is what trump's trying to do and they
know this people end to try to get jobs at these and then the chinese have the database they run
the database and know who's trying to get a job the communist chinese control who can get a job at ut
and i'm not going to get into specifics but the nuclear reactors folks the cyclotrons the clone
labs yeah ut's got clone labs i know for a fact told you 15 years ago but i just told you about the
monkeys i'm not going to get into the other primates and the cross species but let me tell
you folks that's just one example of our military industrial complex he's now in communist chinese
control the infiltration and takeover was already almost complete and what you see in the news is the
tip of the iceberg so the communist chinese have apple everything's moving over they have all your
apple ideas they have the office of personnel management 22 million names and when you go
in to get a job at ut and any of these theoretical infrastructure areas they're looking right at you
and they say we'll get back when they say sorry um you're not who we're looking for and then almost
everyone they hire is chinese communist or muslim and they've almost converted the entire operation
at true management level they still got old stupid white dudes on top of it it's a hedge
fund it's not even university now and they got the football game and that's it and then everything
else is just underground labs secret nuke bunkers underground railways clone labs uh you know super
weapons general public has no idea that i mean i'm in a science fiction movie i've got chinese
communist running the town i live in and i've already been told that we're getting ready others
are to go ahead and expose this like people ask me how do you want to handle it well i got some
starting to handle it right now but you talk about being overwhelmed i know thousands of times this
only since trump got into the university nicks the communist chinese party officially
running ut they already run it
see people ask well why do we care if the chinese hacked and got the office of personnel management
file they were given it that stuff's not on one system they got all of it they're being given
the keys to the kingdom we are merging with it they are the muscle game over man game over if we
don't do something now now now now now now now it is not the russians the russians don't have
the office of personnel management files if the russians were at ut i'd go down there and drag
their ass out myself i'm getting ready to with a common communist chinese and i don't care what
happens to me i'm not going to sit here and put up with this crap they got the bio weapons level
four in town they got clothes they got freakazoids they got underground bases they got a nuclear
reactor under the tower my dad's been in it in 1965 only that bacon lovers we ship free try our
amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right
from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use
order today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com water is the single most
important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family
since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest
price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com hunters anglers campers
and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile
unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com sling bow products are compact
and models start from just 1798 they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle
give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier in
archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow
dot com healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping
your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system
has become a challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty health share liberty
health share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded
people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now
by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source
of 100 percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall
brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield
x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com president donald trump says the u.s is negotiating
for the release of american hostages in north korea president trump was asked during a joint
press conference with the japanese prime minister whether or not the three americans release would
be a precondition for sitting down with the north korean leader kim jong-un trump said his administration
was fighting very diligently for the safe return of the three captives adding we are doing our very
best as you know they've been there a long time in its harsh treatment trump noted the case of
auto warm beer the american student who died after being released last year by pyongyang the
associated press quotes a senior white house official who says cia director mike pompeo
discussed the hostages during his trip to north korea over easter weekend the official says mr
trump is hopeful they'll be released soon the president says the face-to-face with kim jong-un
will likely take place in early june but he added that if the meeting is not going to be fruitful
he will respectfully leave leon macadoo info wars dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
go
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
it's globalist sabotage in 1949 the cia it was declassified 15 16 years ago
i'd always been told that john birch society had written about it they were founded because
john birch was a uh army personnel basically os s cia a preacher a bunch of the stuff and
he got tortured to death because he didn't go along with the communist chinese getting
control of china after world war two and they learned about that and so the john birch society
kicked into gear to fight it so they laid all that i mean i remember when i was a teenager
reading books about it and then i was watching history channel more than 15 years ago it was
like 16 years ago and they had the former head of the southeast asia for the cia on
he was like 90 something years old going well yes we actually put malin we thought he was
a stabilizing effect and was good just nothing being said about this and i'm i'm watching the whole
thing happen that's right it was an american bat this minister missionary united states army
air force captain who was in the u.s military intelligence officer in channel in world war
two john birch was killed in the confrontation with communist soldiers of wikipedia surprise wikipedia
doesn't call him the bad person and a few days after the war ended he was posthumously awarded the
army distinguished service model but he got the intelligence out on hey the os s is in here
they're planning on putting the communist in we got to get the information out and the orders got
since the communist you killed john birch but but i'm digressing imagine what john birch would do if
it was in the washington post that communist chinese intelligence basically runs ut and was going to
officially endow the main political science departments under the communist party endowed
by beijing that's when people went whoa what's going on they're hanging their name on the door at
this point how bad do you think it is and i realize you're a new listener and i'm saying this this
sounds crazy they've been given all the deep water ports the panama canal 98% of rare earth minerals
you think the us and others can't get at least 10% of them they have been given everything
because they signed on to the globalist program university of texas at austin nix's beijing funded
propaganda institute yeah right so so i i meant to get into the persecution of christians and
everything's happened but you have to understand china's the model china's where they roll it out
china's where they beta tested i told you four years ago with exact precision about the global
social score to track everything you do and if you're not a good little globalist they start
cutting back everything you've got things cost more you can't travel suddenly you can't work
suddenly you can't eat then after you've been put in a ghetto you're taken away for reeducation if
you're lucky this isn't a joke people it's the plan why did the universities are anti-free speech
why do you think if you go to any major university and the antifa as they're called for the public
they're really communist they have red flags and they call themselves the mal youth brigades the
groups you've seen in austin we're in an abortion clinic protesting and saying black lives matter
this abortion clinic kills 67% you know black kids at this particular clinic we went to and
they show up they are out of ut ut students driving jaguars and 50 000 trucks and they get
out and start physically attacking us and the police stand down because we're in a blue city
and they go to malice meetings and that's the problem we infiltrated the ut meetings they're
they're they're open to the public and we recorded a bunch of that and i've got to put reports out on
that i mean it's just incredible they're using a communist chinese youth brigade college revolution
model to roll out civil disturbance and martial law it's in the soros documents that came out
obama tried this crap that's what all this race war stuff is in the new purge movie coming out
out where it's like the army's kkk and where's kkk uniforms i'm not kidding white kkk uniforms
and they hunt blacks that's not going on in the real world
but that's what's now happening they push it for a simulation this is incredible
why do you think we have a 900 billion a year deficit with china
this is the criminal alliance this is the globalist alliance
and that's why we're being told to hate russia because the globalists are close to overthrowing
russia as well this is their plan yeah scroll back to the top i want to show folks that
documents to tell plan for civil unrest and martial law in baltimore and they've confirmed
these are real george soros's son runs it it's how they work with the local blue state police
to even let the police attack them vice versa to try to get the crowd to have a larger riot
to bring in a civil emergency and martial law now do you understand the maximum threat here
they've been getting their asses handed to them because people are waking up to them
but they're trying to take me out because they know i've reverse engineered the whole thing
and they know we're linking up with patriots in the government at every level
and they know that if people listen to what we're saying we can stop them
to sit about a popularity contest i'm here to be attacked i'm here to hit the bar bar
i'm here to take the hit so that we beat these people short term mid term long term
all you mainline conservatives and libertarians and christians you better get out of your comfort
zones and we'll lose the whole enchilada now tie this together fec report shows hillary clinton
campaign laundered 84 million cut and drive it's illegal in full wars dot com's any white
and they're reporting that sometimes today congress is going to get hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of pages of new text between struck and his girlfriend and all the rest of it
is going to be even more damning and i've talked to sources in the government that have seen them
and have confirmed it how do they strike back ap says make it illegal to criticize mainline journalists
calling it hate speech hillary came out a few days ago in a speech to the same thing
and now research google search manipulation can swing nearly 80 percent of undecided voters
search engines can shift 50 50 split among people who are undecided on the issue to a
nine to ten split without awareness and google used to be a real search engine
till the election then it became really really corrupt hiding results pushing fake results
it's algorithm broken it's now just something where they force feed you
and they admit that but they bragged they can influence almost all elections now with their
their full bore breaking of the algorithm because 90 plus percent of all searches are done on google
i go to bing now which i know is established but just to check it microsoft it's like the
old google it's the same system and i go to a bunch of others it's just google it's just that
old you know nsa database tracking system that then aggregates and shows what's most popular
and ties it all together and then of course their start page all those other independent ones that's
great but you go to google it's worthless and we've all got to unhabituate ourselves
from from using it but here's the point is that they're making their move and hillary and the ap
and jim acosta this is all coming up with roger stone get the videos they want you shut down they
say when trump criticizes the press he's going to cause violence against him which is what our
sources have said the cia and other agencies they're preparing terror attacks on the media
to blame us and trump the false flags are coming get ready stay with us we'll be back
bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary
value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully
cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use ordered today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to
eat bacon dot com this is dan pillard you know the irish money you can't pay our tax debts crippling
you i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you
too i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless
case call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never
been a better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website
danpillard.com it's been sold out for months and now it's back it's michael zx plus lower price
more ingredients because we scaled up signed to your contract with even bigger organic
manufacturer and producer scalability but now we're able to go at 50 off to 27 instead of
$39 50 off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient michael zx now it's the other
side of the equation everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your
gut because of toxins the environment pesticides herbicides but more importantly than bad bacteria
the probiotics help this place yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast
and the mold and all that get in there it causes all sorts of serious issues well this has got a
bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that slime wall don't wait to
start detoxifying your body until it's too late pick up a bottle of the new and improve michael zx
plus now from the infowars store vitamin mineral fusion visit infowarslife.com to secure your
chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most
powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink
mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and
amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of infowars life we've brought out a lot
of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique
delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula
is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the
ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard
that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear
in the info war that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and
from saying my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give
yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win
no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info warslife.com for yourself ladies and
gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in
the usa get your alpha power today at info warslife.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
you're listening to the alex jones show
if good evening everybody
there's not even the same universe i mean she is an abject psychopathic demon from hell people
around her say she's so dark now and so evil and so possessed that they are having nightmares
they're freaking out folks they say listen obama and hillary both smell like sulfur
wheeze whiskey bottles and brand new cars oak tree you're in my way
there's too much coke and too much smoke look what's going on inside you
look different at this point jones it's me
ooh that smell i have two words for you can't you smell that smell
but it's a good smell
the smell of death surrounds you
died there's a guy on the radio he said he and hillary are demons
said we smell like sulfur hate that son i'm not just being tacky i'm calling margaret
needless to know i had never seen or smelled
uh
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
oh look at the muslims throwing the gays off buildings so liberal
okay there's a lot of flies in here and the center is going to do something about these flies
so
and we are back live ladies and gentlemen roger stones here with us in studio but we're
going to go to an important report first and come back with a roger stone here in just a
few minutes i want to get into strategy in the 2018 election and looks like the blue wave
It's starting to be the hype we knew it was, where they just lost this special election
there in Arizona.
We'll also look at the Democrats' open calls, the AP and others, to have conservative speech
criticizing mainstream media be called hate speech and ban, where they can attack Trump,
they can attack us, call us names, call us murderers, cockroaches, criminals, but we can't
even say anything back to them.
So we're going to get to that.
But I want to play a John Bowne report that ties into all this.
Dead broke DNC gambles with big lawsuit against Roger Stone, not just against Roger Stone,
but also against Donald Trump that, you know, they found last Friday, so Roger's here exclusively
with us, riding shotgun right into the next hour.
We have a lawyer joining us to discuss the waterfront as well, but critical news here
straight ahead.
But here is the important report, dead broke DNC gambles with bogus lawsuit.
Depending on a status of sore loser never before seen in American politics, the Democrats
have filed a lawsuit alleging that WikiLeaks, the Trump campaign, and Russia colluded to
interfere in the 2016 presidential election, superseding Robert Mueller's nothing burger
investigation.
Although this lawsuit has Hillary Clinton revenge written all over it, chief potty mouth
and chair of the Democratic National Committee, Tom Perez, acted as if he was unaware of former
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's influence.
Heading into midterm elections, Perez also downplayed the amount of money it would take
to win a lawsuit or whether it was filed in order to gamble for potential winnings to
fund the candidates.
I will ask you, how much money is this going to cost to DNC, how much money are you taking
away from 2018 to focus on 2016 in Russia?
Chuck, we can't afford not to do this because when you look ahead and you see what was done
before and what they're trying to do again, our democracy is at stake.
It's hard to win elections when you have interference in elections.
We've been winning elections.
We know how to walk and chew gum.
We've got boots on the ground right now in Arizona.
We have a great candidate.
He's an undeniable underdog.
We're fighting there.
We just won in the...
You didn't answer how much money is this lawsuit going to take this year?
Millions?
I don't know the amount of money that it will take, but I'll tell you, it's hard to put
a price tag on preserving democracy.
And you know what?
That's why I concluded that it would be irresponsible of me not to do this.
The week reported back in January that the DNC is dead broke, the Democratic Party is
carrying more than $6 million in debt, according to year-end filings, and has just $6.5 million
in the bank.
Do the math, and the party is working with just over $400,000 overall.
Meanwhile, the Republicans are swimming in pools of money.
The Republican National Committee had raised $132 million by the end of 2017, about twice
as much as the DNC, and entered 2018 with almost $40 million to spare, with not a penny
of debt.
The lawsuit also relies on questionable evidence, most of it from the Mockingbird media.
But a lot of it relies on things like news reports, including a single-sourced or anonymously
sourced reports.
So the challenge in this suit is going to be translating those essentially news reports
into evidence that's going to be admissible in court.
Now what's relevant right now is not necessarily whether they can do that, but whether or not
they can survive a motion to dismiss.
Whether or not they have a well-pleaded complaint on the face, it does seem likely that this
lawsuit, at least some defendants, at least some claims, are likely to survive a motion
to dismiss.
This is most relevant because it means that they'll move on to the discovery phase.
That might end up becoming a really, really powerful tool for the DNC to actually unearth
new information.
Careful what you ask for, ZeroHedge reports WikiLeaks will be countersuing, announcing
over Twitter that they are seeking donations for a countersuit, noting, we've never lost
a publishing case, and discovery is going to be amazing fun.
ZeroHedge also added, what's interesting is that of all the sources that DNC cites in
their massive lawsuit, the steel dossier they paid for isn't one of them.
Tom Perez is working like a man that owes the mob money, acting in total desperation.
What has become the norm for the party he leads?
John Bound reporting for Infowars.com.
Now we're going to get Roger Stone's expert take on all this, but a big treat, you could
say.
I've gotten emails and texts saying, hey, Roger Stone worked for the Nexium sex cult,
and why aren't you bringing it up?
Well, because I talked to him about it a long time ago, 2007 for what, two months, he worked
for them because they had a bunch of businesses and companies, and he lives in New York part
of the time, and then he can give you the big scoop on it.
The Brothman daughters, the connections of the Clintons, all of this, and so that ties
into the Democrats, but he was also hired as a consultant.
I mean, Roger, just briefly on this, back before he retired from lobbying, what just
four years ago, you had one of the biggest lobbying firms, some media said the biggest
for a small shop, but I mean, yes, you've worked for thousands of clients.
There was a time when we had the dominant lobbying shop in Washington DC, Black, Manafort,
and Stone, once Black, Manafort, Stone, and Atwater.
In this particular case, Alex, State Senator Joe Bruno, who was the Senate majority leader,
introduced me to the folks at Nexium.
I met the Brothman sisters, I audited this class, which was a bunch of middle-aged housewives
trying to learn kind of self-esteem, certainly didn't seem like any kind of a cult to me.
Well, hold on, because you got on the rabbit hole, we'll talk about it next time.
I want to get into the attacks on free speech, I want to get into blue-way fizzles.
Is that accurate?
Tucker says, don't run against Hillary, run against the openly racist extremists.
We're going to talk to you as a political consultant on the other side about that, Roger Stone.
But first, ladies and gentlemen, if you financially support us, if you buy the high-quality products
at infowarslife.com and infowarsstore.com, you will stand against sorrows, you will stand
against the globalists, you will fund our free speech operation, but you're already
getting great deals, you're already getting the highest quality, you're already getting
stuff that has tens of thousands of five-star reviews on third-party sites.
X2, the good halogen, the deep earth crystal source of it, you die without iodine.
The problem is everything else in the market is crap, and our search to find something
pure and good that didn't make people sick, we found it.
X2, that we may run out of the source, it's not going to be 25% off much longer, infowarsstore.com.
Also, BBC reports on mold yeast and stuff in the gut causing depression.
Well, that's what Michael ZX is about, targeting the bad mold yeast and stuff in the gut.
It's beyond the probiotics at infowarslife.com.
It's back in supply.
And we've also got 50% off on the real red pill when you get it with super-melvitality,
it's 50% off as well, with free shipping, infowarsstore.com.
Without you, the globalists win.
With you, we win.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
It's infowarslife.com.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Infowarslife.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested
food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by Infowarslife.
Get to Infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's Infowarslife.com.
Introducing Cell Force by Infowarslife.
Cell Force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection.
Mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy.
They are your body's cellular engines.
Cell Force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting mitochondria, much
like a cellular engine overhaul, because when your mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency,
then they start producing reactive oxygen species.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from
these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in Cell Force are some of the most powerful available on the market.
The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen
species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect, and adapt with Cell Force from Infowarslife.
Head to Infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have them
in Full-Warslife.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preclinone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show, because there is a war on for your mind.
Well, Roger Stone won his New York defamation case against him, zero coverage when he won,
when they threw the suit in Virginia on Tuesday morning, or Monday morning, excuse me, zero
coverage except here, and I'm told they might try to refile it, but once you've done that,
it's really hard.
They realize they just filed pure BS, it was defamation.
But again, it's this tactic where they're finally like screenplays now as lawsuits,
and they just want the press from it, but they don't think they're going to pay, but
we filed a lawsuit against them for it, no coverage of that, but the original plaintiffs
are starting to go, oh, wait a minute, you're exactly right.
It's all about the headline.
It's not about a real case, it's not about evidence or proof or a responsible case.
It's an abuse of the judicial process for the purposes of getting a negative headline
on Alex Jones, or on Roger Stone, or on Info Wars, and then they turn around and they use
the headline as the rationale for censoring you on the Internet.
It's an insidious plot, but the Democratic National Committee lawsuit is a perfect example.
This is a left-wing conspiracy theory.
No evidence, no proof, based on conjecture, supposition, projection, it's nonsense.
It's in this case, it's a recycle of the lawsuit that the Obama crowd already has filed against
me.
And notice, even the media goes, okay, Russia gets over, we're moving on to Michael Cohen
and women in the whole dragnet, boom, they refile all the old lies again like they filed
on you and the president with Obama's law firm last year.
Do they really think that the Russian state and the Russian army are going to show up
in court for this, or do they just throw their name into the lawsuit?
But that's the point, is they'll go, Russia didn't show up.
Right.
It's all about-
Like if the Russians sued the U.S., you sue people through the WTO, the IMF, the World
Trade Organization, no, no, stop, we're getting to that next hour, we're the lawyer coming
on to discuss it, not one of our lawyers, we don't have our lawyers on this case as we
discuss the generalities.
Even my lawyer's early on said, I wouldn't have this press conference in D.C., their
suit is the worst thing we've ever seen.
He'll get thrown out before we get into court, and they were right.
So now I'm not giving out tactics on the other fake ones, I don't just say they're
fake to act confident.
If I've done something before that I think crosses the line, off record, I've settled
a couple lawsuits when we've made a mistake, okay, and I'm not going to say obviously which
one is off record.
But I mean, when they're just cuckoo-land lies, I don't know what they're thinking,
Roger.
Well, two things.
First of all, it's about bankrupting us.
Just the motion to dismiss these lawsuits, just the motion to dismiss can cost you $100,000.
Yeah, exactly.
It costs a lot of money, a huge amount of money.
We've already spent, I don't want to give them any happy times out there, that's why
listeners need to understand.
We really do have the best turmeric bodies, we really do have the best iodine, we really
do have the best multivitamin liquid formula with the vitamin mineral fusion, it's great
for you and your children.
We really do have the best air filters, we really do have the best storeable food and
a free water filter, the $200 value with three months supply, powered by my patron supply,
the name, in high quality 25-year store.
I mean, I barely plug one minute an hour because I'm so obsessed with the information.
But it is critical to support our local AM and FM stations.
It is critical to become a local sponsor.
It's critical to buy our products, it's critical, you know, Roger Stone works for Info Wars,
he also has Stone Cold Truth, he's got a new book coming out we're going to be showing.
We need capital, we don't have George Soros, we don't have the big money.
You know, Roger, you had one of the top lobbying firms in the country and this is a good question
as to working for this other news.
Why did you decide, what was it, six, seven years ago to stop lobbying?
Because Alex, I love politics, not government.
I love the fight, winning a campaign, fighting for the things you believe in, taking on candidates
or causes that you believe in.
I'm not all that interested in the Third Amendment to the Treasury Bill regarding the treatment
of casino income and so on, it's just highly technical.
So patting around the halls of Congress, asking congressmen and senators to do things
for you.
It gets old.
It was never my thing.
It's more fun having, you know, fans come out and aunties come out and attack you and
be in the, you want to be in the arena and change the world, not just make money.
I've written five books, two of them are New York Times bestsellers, I have another one
coming.
This is the fight I've chosen.
Now I can help candidates and causes I believe in, not because I need the money, but because
they're good men and women who believe in what we believe, who are prepared to take on the
globalists, who are prepared to tell the truth about the two-party duopoly that's ruining
this country.
Now I want to slow down because I tend to speed up and we miss everything.
I want to get in the blue wave.
Is it really dead?
I don't want to be too over-optimistic, but I think the numbers show it is, but they're
still in elections, so we got to watch out.
I think Tucker's right and wrong.
He says, don't run against Hillary.
Well she's still the deep state.
Her apparatus is still in place.
So I agree, don't run about her as the past, but run about how her people are still in
there and we're fighting deep state, see, because they always lay out, oh, run against
her because she's old and bad or run against, you know, you know, no, don't run against
all of it.
There should be out doing more rallies so we can see leftists come out and riot and go
crazy.
That gives them up, you know, in the polls everywhere.
So I mean, I don't know who's giving them advice.
It's so clear what needs to be done here.
Meanwhile, FEC records document that Hillary Clinton campaign laundered $84 million to
the foundation, conservatively, meanwhile, we're worried about, did Michael Cohen pay
off some bimbos?
I mean, as long as they're not beating the bimbos, and I'm a libertarian, I'm not in
the bimbo department, but my whole point is, is that there's not even proof of that.
But you know, my God, it's not Russia.
It's now bimbos.
So let's start with this, FEC records, info wars.com show Clinton campaign laundered $84
million.
It was right through the records, totally illegal, use it in the campaign.
It's all right there.
But AP says it's okay, ban criticizing mainline journalists.
That's the new theme from Hillary, Acosta, the Associated Press, very dangerous.
Well, fortunately for us, Hillary refuses to ride off into the sunset.
So it's not, it's not up to us whether she is relevant.
She's making herself relevant by hanging around.
Professional Democrats, I know, are tearing out their hair over this.
They just want the Clintons to leave.
Barack Obama's public positioning is far more favorable, but Hillary refuses to go.
But he's still smart if she was head down.
Well, there's no question because what he knew and when he knew it regarding the Steele
dossier and the illegal unconstitutional.
We know he quarterbacks that, the president has all the NSA data now.
I mean, we have them.
It's the greatest violation of civil liberties in American political history.
It's an outrageous crime for which somebody has to be punished.
So he doesn't want people going around asking, what did the president know and when did he
know it?
Separately, it's all over the news, the Communist infiltration by China, they basically run
in major Washington Post articles, surprisingly a few, and Bezos admits it, they run almost
every public university.
They're the number one funders, just like the number one owners of our debt, and they
openly have pro-mau and pro-kill, fall-on-gone events that are the main chairs now at UT.
I mean, I read this, I can't even believe it.
I was told by CIA guys two years ago that UT was run by the Chai comms and they wanted
to do something about it.
And now it's in the news.
What?
I mean, what?
And we're going about Russians.
I am so sick of that red herring.
That's the diversion while we're getting taken over by the Chai comms, people.
There's no question.
And we have helped them by giving them most favored trading nation status by bending over
for them at every turn.
That's the legacy of George H.W. Bush, by the way.
The real danger today is Chinese communism, not the former Soviet Union.
I'm not saying that they're our friends, but we have a much more aggressive adversary
in the Chinese.
Do we have a $900 billion deficit with Russia?
In fact, last time I heard, I think they have a trade deficit with us.
I think that's correct.
No, China is the, this is the big enchilada.
And the president knows it.
There's the irony.
He's totally got their number, which is why he is cracking down with these tariffs.
I don't think he loves tariffs.
In fact, I know he doesn't like tariffs.
He does like using them as a club to get them to the table.
Well, when they've got all their internal tariffs to the tune of $900 billion, $500
billion in trade, $300 billion in intellectual property, that's conservative.
I mean, they're more than half the global trade deficit.
And I want to get into this too with you, not to my horn, but remember election night,
I got really concerned all year and I said, listen, the real war is going to start now.
I'm glad we got Trump in, but they're going to counter offensive so hard the real war
is about to start.
And I was just worried that listeners and people don't realize it's on.
And I think they get it now.
Well, also you said at the time and since the Russian thing will fizzle out, you said,
then they're going to switch to sex.
They're going to, they're going to, they're going to re-up these claims of a bunch of bogus
women that Trump assaulted them.
And then, then that died down and you said, don't worry, it will be back.
And here it is front and center.
No, I think they launched me to just to try to get past Hillary and Hollywood to just
make it about everybody.
Right.
You know, it's just smoke screen for the pedophilia, raping women, men, all of it.
And you can see how they pre-program this.
Plus, it was a way to try to take Weinstein, which was an enormous bump in the road for
them and turn it back on us, try to make it about.
So let's look into the future again with Roger Stone.
I'm Alex Jones, your host on the other side of this quick break, infowars.com, newswars.com.
His new book's about to come out.
We'll tell you about that.
But when we come back, we're going to get specifically into the blue wave.
And you know, is it in trouble with this Arizona race?
And then we'll look beyond that.
Stay with us.
Let's go to Devin and Florida, Devin and Florida, you're on the air.
Great.
Hey, thank you so much.
Listen, I have bought your product and I got to say they're amazing.
Anyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret
swell, fireman interfusion.
I've got the body armor.
Wow.
You're the type of listener that makes it all possible.
Which pharmaceuticals do you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest.
That's amazing.
That's incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible, like I haven't felt sweet.
My morning was fantastic and I love the guys, I love the infowars through and I just want
to, yeah, I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence,
just buy it.
We'll love it.
I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com.
It's a win-win infowarslife.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure
deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
I'm sitting here in the big shadow government command base, Austin, Texas, sitting on top
of the big underground cities, the big secret nuclear reactors at UT, all of it.
I'm not just talking about JJ Pickles Center in North Austin.
Roger Stone's here, we were talking about letting the communist Chinese in, even as
the Washington Post has to admit, that basically took over the UT government department, their
research labs, and that ties into Trump saying 300 billion in intellectual property.
That's just what we know in intellectual property, in products, in patents theft.
What about all the secret stuff, the DARPA stuff, and that's just UT, the biggest university
in the world.
And besides MIT, one of the biggest science centers in the country, Stanford's big as
well, and it's Chinese communist run, and that's in the news, we're hearing about Russians,
Roger.
And they manipulate our currency, and they play games on trade.
No, the Russians are the number one problem in the world.
I'm not saying the Russians are not a problem, but we ought to be focused on the Chinese
menace, it seems to me.
But you were elaborating on that, I mean, Trump gets this.
He's been right about this for 15 years.
He's been harping on the fact that they steal our patents, they steal our technology, they
steal our jobs, they cheat in all their trade.
That's why I was glad to see him follow through on the tariffs, even though I philosophically
agree that the tariffs are probably not that effective, they're effective at getting them
to the table and bludging them into better behavior.
And that's, I think, the point of it.
I do want to go back to your blue wave stuff, because I think the Democrats have counted
their chickens way too early.
Well, we know it's hype, like saying, Ted Cruz is in a dead heat, Ted Cruz is going
to lose.
That's pure push polling to create the perception so Republicans don't come out and Democrats
want to come in for the victory.
What are they running on?
They have no plan to revitalize the economy.
They have no plan to address the trade balance.
They have no plan to fix the immigration problem.
They have no plan to make America safer or stronger.
It's a one-note platform.
We hate Donald Trump.
We want to remove Donald Trump.
We hate Donald Trump.
They have nothing else.
Why are they so lazy?
Like, even their lawsuits against us are just haphazard, like idiots wrote them.
I mean, well, the Democrats are really that dumb, but how do they ever get control?
The party has no soul and it has no core.
It's a strung together group of special interest groups.
It's a broken coalition strategy.
It's a bunch of broken up groups, atomized.
And they can't get rid of the face of their party, Nancy Pelosi, Hillary Clinton.
These people are losers.
If the Republicans run on peace and prosperity, job creation and prosperity, peace with North
Korea and prosperity, we will win.
They don't have anything to run on other than pure hatred for Donald Trump.
And by the way, I know you've talked to the president and others.
You've really pushed, like he didn't even understand what Sessions was doing, killing
him.
And then when Trump comes out and says, the criminalized marijuana, let the states control
it, which should be a gigantor win, something Obama didn't even do, zero coverage.
I mean, like one article, that is so seismic.
Let's talk about that when we come back.
Yeah, absolutely right.
I'm going to get into the whole nexium cult, which you did some limited for two months
consulting for, which you never had, which is not a thing.
They're like, oh, Jones, you claim that you're with nexium now.
Well, they have a lot of businesses, a lot of things.
I've never worked with nexium, but we're going to talk about that.
I'm glad you're here.
You're more than happy to give us from a slight inside view.
You were kind of in the doorway of the cult.
What you saw.
Yeah.
I'm happy to get into that.
I mean, they were introduced to me by a Republican state senator.
They had hired Senator Gillibrand's father, Doug Rudnick, who is a well-known and respected
Democratic lobbyist.
I worked for them for about two months and what I found out is they didn't need a lobbyist.
They needed an attorney.
They were upset about some former partner of theirs who had left and they thought took
intellectual property and they, I said, you don't need a lobbyist.
You need an attorney.
You need to be in court, not in front of the legislature.
They could never understand the difference between the state and federal levels of government.
The whole thing.
Stay right there.
I want to come back and kick this back off because it's a doorway.
You were in the doorway of the doorway into the whole weird world of all the sex cults.
We'll be right back.
President Donald Trump says the U.S. is negotiating for the release of American hostages in North
Korea.
President Trump was asked during a joint press conference with the Japanese prime minister
whether or not the three Americans release would be a precondition for sitting down with
the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
Trump said his administration was fighting very diligently for the safe return of the
three captives, adding, we are doing our very best.
As you know, they've been there a long time in its harsh treatment.
Trump noted the case of Otto Warmbier, the American student who died after being released
last year by Pyongyang.
The Associated Press quotes a senior White House official who says CIA director Mike
Pompeo discussed the hostages during his trip to North Korea over Easter weekend.
The official says Mr. Trump is hopeful they'll be released soon.
The president says the face-to-face with Kim Jong-un will likely take place in early
June, but he added that if the meeting is not going to be fruitful, he will respectfully
leave.
That's all for today, and I'll see you next time on MacadooInfoWars.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're back live with Roger Stone, I'm Alex Jones with infowars.com
and newswars.com.
We are one of the number one most attack groups in the country and the world because we're
promoting Americanism, anti-globalism, we're promoting true free market, we're standing
against radical Islam, I'm also against cancer, and I don't like death either, so just I like
pragmatic nice happy things like freedom and the right to self-defense and you know, men
and women and families and all those things that are under attack by the globalists that
want total control of civilization.
So let's walk through three big issues, look into the nexium cult that you did some consulting
for before you found out what was going on back in 2007, and you're an expert who's been
breaking this down on the war rooms, but my audience doesn't know that, they've been saying
hey, ask Roger about nexium because the Democrats are trying to recycle that and dig that up
to attack you somehow.
But Comey Nemo leak contact had special government employee status at FBI, CGE, now they're saying
they only know of one other person that did that, that was somebody that worked for Ooma
Abany, that's not true.
This is an offshoot of infra-guard in the Patriot Act that got over three million people
we know of with special emergency governmental cards, the right to carry firearms in many
cases, you name it, and it's the FBI and the deep state under Bush and the Clintons creating
a private army, basically a private spy force.
And now Columbia law professor James Comey used as a go-between last year to leak the
contents of sensitive memos to the media confirmed to Fox News on Tuesday that he previously
worked as a special government employee, SGE, for Comey's FBI on an unpaid basis, and he
says, I did indeed have SGE status with the Bureau for no pay, Richmond wrote in an email,
well you go to the head of the line at the airport, you get access to all the secret
documents to the office of personnel management, when this federal judge puts the whole database
online for federal agents, of Trump's lawyers communications, he gets access to that, this
is so they can use these go-betweens to go out and carry out operations in the media.
So it's government and the Democrats deep state leaking into media, leaking into academia,
this is basically a spy operation.
Now people are freaking out over this Fox News, is reporting on, for me the bigger story
is Comey going, I never leaked to Congress, and then saying, okay, I gave it to a friend
at the law school at Columbia law, so that the truth would get out, but then he tries
to say, but I didn't leak it, he's an FBI head, he should know the guy that gives the
order to somebody else to give it out, admits he did it to get it out, then saying, but
I had somebody else do it, makes it even more of a capital offense that it's premeditated,
I mean these, these frauds, most of these lawyers, I know more than they do, I know top lawyers
admit that, judges, I mean I'm not bragging, these people are lazy, do I know more about
Comey than he does about the law, and here's why, I'm not just saying, Comey thinks you're
dumb, maybe he's not stupid, Roger, why would they illegally surveil you the president, lie
about it, do all this, they didn't tell people they had surveilled, they had all the dirt,
then say, oh we didn't surveil, but there was dirt, then say they didn't leak, but admitted
before they leaked, and then now saying, well I did leak, I thought you should have it,
but I did through somebody else, so I didn't violate the national security act, I mean it's
like the guy's shot full of holes, they're so guilty, struck all of them, the dossier,
cooking it up, this is, these people have self-immolated in front of us, the only question
is does Jeff Sessions have the wavos, or Trump or anybody, it's not even wavos, they're coming
for Trump, they're coming for all of us, and they're the globalists, so they're coming,
they're bad, that we've caught them, give them hell, why aren't people ready to give
it to them?
The answer, Alex, is hubris, they were so confident that Hillary would win, that all
of their crimes would therefore be able to be covered up, so therefore they blatantly
used government email, government text messages, talking about their insurance policy against
Donald Trump's election, because they were arrogant, and now they think they can lie
their way out of it, this special government status that you mentioned is very interesting
because it is under that, that Huma Abedin is able to triple dip, that she's able to
get paid by the State Department, the Clinton Foundation, and a lobbying firm that lobbies
the State Department, Tanao, the only person in American history who's ever been allowed
to do this, Hillary's friend, well, here's the big secret, they're telling everybody
this, the secret is for good little globalists, they can quadruple dip, and it's done under
infregard, yeah, so essentially you're allowed to break the law, it gives you a special status,
so you're above the law, and by the way he said, oh yes, I have that status, we've created
new royalty. Well, and did Comey tell him to give it to the New York Times specifically?
I believe that is the case, I think when you go back to his testimony he admits that, so
it's not like there's some good things about infregard, where if you've been, say a Marine
for seven years, and then the CIA leading operations for 10, and then you're working
for high level governmental operations that interface with private corporations, I just
like what reciprocal for cops to have guns nation, why we can trust them, the Democrats
are fighting that, we've almost got it, there are people in infregard who have connections,
I'm not gonna get into it, who can carry guns around the country, I'm all for that, just
don't let them have database connection, don't let them be above the law, and then don't
have university professors that have full clearance into the FBI database, no I'm not
for that, does that make sense?
It does, I think at the end of the day, Comey's book tour, his entire launch is gonna turn
out to be one of the greatest public relations legal and political mistakes of all time.
I agree because he's just, he's just, he's sitting there and changing his story and
now showing he committed perjury in Congress.
Well, when he was in New York last week, we had, you know, three dozen Info Warriors outside
with Laura Loomer, I think she embarrassed him, we're gonna continue to do this at every
level.
Oh I forgot that, you guys queue up Laura Loomer, we're in front of Comey, I wanna play
that again, go ahead, but we're gonna be summoning, I think the next one is May 2nd
in Miami, Info Warriors will be there to join us in a peaceful protest to expose James Comey's
lies, help us greet Lion Jim Comey as we call him, and my thanks to the many Info Warriors
who showed up in New York, it was a great time.
Now that's my next issue, now before we go to break, we're gonna come back with a whole
nexium cult and your kind of front room, but you know, not in the deeper annals, two months
working for him, he said four months, but they only had you two months and paid for
the last two months.
We're gonna talk about that, but just briefly, I got told by, people say, oh yeah, right,
well people know, yeah, we have the sources, I mean, we have Roger Stonewriter, you don't
think he has sources?
I got told by high level individuals in multiple federal agencies that the Democrats are getting
ready to stage false flags against their media, against the UN, against the Federal Reserve,
against what's seen as the establishment, against universities, to then say Alex Jones
and Trump caused it.
Now you see, days later, Acosta, AP, Hillary, and a bunch of other grips, those clips are
coming up, they're on InfoWars.com, saying Trump's gonna cause terror attacks, he's gonna
get us killed, we need to ban criticizing mainstream media, that's AP, make it a hate crime, Roger,
while transparent as they're preparing, it wasn't hard for me to predict they were gonna
launch Me Too movement to reboot going after Trump and to cover up for Hillary.
It's a fact, but I can see this, but I've been told by folks in the government that
when ISIS then came out this week, with the image of them machine gunning CNN, the New
York Times and all this, that that's the preparation, they are getting ready, buddy,
what do we do?
They're getting ready to bomb their own facilities and blame it on us, and then we come out and
say, don't blame us, they're gonna say, oh, how dare you deny that somebody else did this.
This entire hysteria on their part is born of the fact that we've got 3% economic growth,
the president is on the verge of a peace deal with the North Koreans.
Best GDP in decades.
They are apoplectic that he is being this successful.
So now we have...
And how great he and Melania look out there.
Well, in the fact that he seems to be handling this Frenchman pretty adeptly, and he's on
the verge of denuclearizing the North Koreans.
They're out of their minds with rage, and that's why they're gonna go to these tactics.
But again, Alex, the overall strategy is what?
Censorship.
It's all about censorship.
Silence Alex Jones.
Silence Imphil Wars.
Silence Roger Stone.
Silence the Daily Caller.
Silence Breitbart.
Silence anybody who's alternative so they can then take away our guns and bring down a duly
elected president.
I mean, I have the articles right here, stacks of them, where it says Silence Alex Jones.
Where's that particular article?
It says, Alex Jones doesn't deserve the First Amendment is the headline.
And this is in major publications.
And they call me a cockroach and a rat and a criminal and all this crap.
They've got their speech to make stuff up.
I don't even have speech to sit there and respond.
That's what we're talking about.
All right, Roger Stone and his view from being somewhat on the periphery of the nexium sex
cult, it's tied to Hillary straight ahead.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church, to get
them right now at killingunclesambook.com, killingunclesambook.com.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10 year shelf life and protects the leanest,
thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve, savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Here today at ReadyToEatBacon.com, ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
TV is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest
cutting-edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat
other proteins better, and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic
culture of the very best strains in fluorolife advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolife everyday maintenance, but all of
these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely
affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at mforestore.com, you know you are also financing the attack on
the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
The reason mfore's life has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want
products I'm going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore
truthful information you're going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at mforestore.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference.
I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale.
I had a few bottles at my house, and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once
again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously, the superfemale is amazing.
I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential.
Survival Shield X2.
If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest it's nascent
iodine, Survival Shield X2, it's got a five star rating.
So win, win in forewarslife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Just like our political and cultural information is absolutely game-changing by the very definition.
A lot of people claim that Infowars is the plague to tyranny.
But you are the enemy.
I'm not a rocket scientist, but I know to go out and check the top scientists and see
what they say.
And they have talked about for decades that a lot of the mental disorders, a lot of the
behavioral disorders, a lot of the autism spectrum disorders are in the gut from the
diets and vaccines that trigger autoimmune responses in the stomach that then create
major toxicity in the gut, causing toxicity in the brain.
No kidding, Rick, a bottle of Jack Daniels, you can kill you.
Well, you eat the wrong things, or have the wrong mold, or yeast, or fungus, or the wrong
bacteria in your gut.
Bye-bye, Bluebird.
Here's a big BBC report today.
Look up the New York Times.
How bacteria are changing your mood.
If you have the wrong ones, you're depressed.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's been sold out for months.
MycoZX is back.
It's not just the great probiotics we have at Infowars.com.
The highest quality, very, very affordable.
Just like our information is game changing.
It's MycoZX antifungal, anti-east, anti-candida that goes in and knocks out the walls in your
intestines where these things colonize it and put a slime wall in, that the nutrients
go through, they get what they want first, they colonize you, then they secrete toxins
in you that cause depression.
They can even secrete toxins when they want more sugar.
This is well known.
Newcombe with MycoZX exclusively at InfowarsLife.com.
Did I mention it also funds the second American Revolution?
You can't lose unless you don't take action.
InfowarsLife.com.
Now, Roger Stone, I knew, I remember asking you about this, like a year ago, this was
first breaking, because I knew you lobbied for thousands of groups.
The Nexium sex cult, describing your own words, what it really was, your periphery view, working
for them for a few months, why you got out of it, obviously I didn't know it was a cult
then, and now you've got inside a secretive group where women are branded.
That is out of the New York Times.
Smallville actress, Allison Mack is both a victim and perpetrator of cult sex crimes,
as the blower says, Allison Mack Smith's actress granted bail in the sex cult case, and Hillary's
been tied to it now.
Who is Keith Rainier, five details, we'll go over this, but your view is very interesting.
This was mainly a leftist group, which again, women can't find conservatives to pimp them,
to beat them, to hurt them, not all women want that, but some women do.
They found it with Nexium, but you described what it was like.
They shriveled women, like having their souls sucked, describe what you witnessed.
Well, first of all, they presented themselves to me as a self-help group, having these classes
in the Albany, New York area.
Their clientele all appeared to be wealthier, middle-aged, mostly housewives, but some
men as well, people looking for some self-esteem, people looking for some self-confidence.
But the people who worked for Nexium, the women who worked for them, were all emaciated.
They were all extremely thin, and I did audit this course to see what it was like to look
in on it.
I noticed that they were given no bathroom breaks.
They were given no food breaks.
It was extremely intense.
I met the actress Catherine Ochsenberg there, who briefly audited and then fell out with
the cult now, struggling to get her daughter, India, out of it, I'm in touch with her.
Last week on the War Room, we had Frank Parlotto, who really is the crusading journalist who
has busted this cult wide open.
And I love how you've been exposing it, talking about your experiences, since it came out
in the news, and then the media spins it like, you're involved.
You're exposing it, and then you're a bad guy.
I never saw any evidence of a harem.
I never saw any evidence of sexual abuse.
I never saw any evidence of women.
You were in the porch, you were on the outside.
Because it was clear after two months that they needed an attorney, not a lobbyist.
Their specific complaint had to do with an ex-partner who they believe had built them
and stolen.
Sure, but you told me, but basically, off, not off record, but not on air.
You just said basically it was a bunch of crazy people.
Well, and what they did do, and this was clear, was they would find wealthy offspring like
Claire and Sarah Bromfman of the very wealthy Bromfman family in New York, and then they
would suck money from them.
They're embroiled in many lawsuits.
So sucking money off liberal women, and I guess liberal women don't like men that they've
been trained to, and don't like men that are nice to them.
So I guess that's the ultimate fetish, is being cucked.
So these women, a lot of them went in to be abused.
It's totally sick.
It was very clear that the Bromfman sisters were writing enormous checks, drained down
their inheritance to pay for this.
The famous Keith Ranieri I never met, everybody spoke of him in these reverential terms, but
all I saw was this self-help program that seemed pretty pathetic to be on.
By the way, these self-help programs, I gotta tell you folks, we don't have big meetings,
we don't do big ribs, we don't tell you how to live your whole life, we just break down
facts here.
So many of them are cults.
They've got these exercise cults, and these other things, and it's all like some weirdo
just stating stupid, basic things, everyone just deciding they found the truth so they
can feel really big and smart, and it's like mainstream media, it's a democratic party,
it's like any of it, it's not, it's, I mean, pull up the leader of the nexium cult.
I mean, this guy, this guy looks like a complete moron.
I mean, just look at every one of these self-help guys, has that same stupid, vapid moron look
in their eye, and then other morons go to him, believe it or not, they're gonna get
some moron Valhalla out of it.
Well, and they're extremely litigious as well.
I think you'd find that in most cases, anyone who works for them even briefly ends up getting
sued.
They never sued me, I'm happy to say, but they sued many others.
Doug Rutnick, who's a well-known and respected democratic lobbyist who happens to be the
father of Senator Gillibrand worked for them, I have no evidence that he did anything wrong
either.
They ended up suing him.
I think falsely, he probably figured out the same thing I did, they didn't need a lobbyist,
they needed a lawyer.
I'll tell you what the sounds like to me, you get people a little bit of power, they
get people that want to be around power, so they set themselves up like their power, people
that agree it's the power, and then they go crazy.
I can tell you how many times, it's like the lottery effect, 98% of people, this has been
documented in films made, books written, that when the lottery ended up homeless in jail
or totally broke or dead within two years, but they were targeting the wealthy children
of wealthy parents, that's where the big money was coming from.
The Bromphmans and others, emptying out their inheritance, turning over all the money to
the...
And think of the psychology, you've got these coddled spoiled girls, mainly, and then finally
there's somebody, you're great, you're going to get it, but teaching them they've got to
debase themselves, there's a thrill to that, that's why women go and get pimps.
It's very sick, and they want to belong, they really just desperately want to belong
to something, and therefore their bank accounts get vacuumed out.
Edgar Bromphman Jr., the father, essentially ended up taking legal action against the cult
because they lifted $30 million, this is not small change.
Absolutely, I mean you get around the rich and powerful, they're like, most of the
government are mentally ill, and their kids are all ruined, and then they just got these
weird trendy cults around them, sucking them dry, when common sense and free market in
Americana is the only thing these people need, they need 700 horsepower vehicles, they need
to go out and climb a mountain, they need to have fun, they need to go shoot guns, that's
where they're going to find it.
With that, that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransack the
place, and what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in, go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of Black Rifle Real Estate dot com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state, until one day I chose to
lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20 acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden, and homeschool
our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our Black Rifle Real Estate
team is here to help.
Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com, that's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
From using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it,
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and the rest assured, you're finding the info
war, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities,
and it's made in the USA, get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and
they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
They use their media to assassinate real news.
They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their
narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance, all to make them march, make
them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia, to smash windows,
burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding, until
the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight
this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America, and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War.
Well, Mark John Randazer is one of the top anti-flatback lawyers, flatback lawyers of
the country.
And of course, he's buddies with the great Mike Cernovich.
I've got some of the best First Amendment lawyers in the country, and people have looked
up the law firms they've got.
They're like, yeah, no, those are the people that represent the Bushes, you know, all of
them.
They're like, what are you over the Bushes now?
No, I just go and get the best people.
But we filed an anti-flatback or slapback provision in the Virginia case, had a press
conference two weeks ago.
They pulled it on Monday.
They're going to refile it.
But they did a 70-page thing of just insults and lies like they're posting a screenplay
or something.
And then the media goes with that, like, oh, which is like you won your last defamation
case a few months ago in New York.
No coverage once you won.
So they filed 16 fake lawsuits on us last year.
We've kicked out now 10.
They said they're going to refile that one.
But I wanted to get Mark Randaza on from randaza.com, Rand Azza, like Rand Paul, but with Azza
at the end of it, randaza.com on.
I'm going to go over his whole backgrounds and take the rest of the 30 minutes we had
with him.
He's also been a journalist, so he knows all those different angles.
And so he's taught First Amendment law, entertainment law, trademark law, copyright law, I'm going
to stop right there.
He's also obviously a professor.
Where are we right now?
What is their tactic?
We've gotten Roger's take on this, demonize this, then call for our censorship.
Hillary, Acosta, the AP are calling for conservatives to be banned from the airwaves this week.
And if you criticize mainstream media, they say it's a hate crime.
Now, so I see them coming for our speech because they can't beat us.
And to do that, they're going to misrepresent their articles today saying, Alex Jones doesn't
deserve the First Amendment.
Those are headlines today, but to do that, they misrepresent what I'm saying to sell
the idea.
But even if I was saying something horrible, you got to prove it in court.
So Mark, what do you think's really going on as one of the leading experts on this?
Thanks for joining us.
Yeah, it's my pleasure.
And I love the misfits of the lead in music.
Look, this is not new.
There have always been people who have tried to use censorship in order to put their finger
on the scale of the marketplace of ideas.
Right now, it just happens to be the left's turn.
But I would not say that this is a left or a right issue.
There was a time when I was called a raging leftist because I believed in free speech.
Now I'm a raging alt-right lawyer because I believe in free speech.
And that whole time, I've sat on the same rock saying that I believe in the marketplace
of ideas.
I believe that if you want to defeat somebody's ideas, that's how you do them, in the free
marketplace of ideas.
So now, yeah, I am noticing that the left is engaging in what I'd say is legal law
fair trying to shut down its critics, trying to shut down ideas that it's having a hard
time defeating in the marketplace, whether it's lawsuits against right-wing journalists,
lawsuits against you.
I mean, certainly, when you see when the numbers started getting up over 10 all at the same
time, apparently coordinated, they're finding you to be a threat.
I don't see anything that you've ever said that I find so shocking or so terrible that
it cannot stand in opposition to my views that might be diametrically opposed to yours.
That's what America is all about.
And when you have this desire to simply shut down the other side, I mean, let's use something
much more extreme than you, you know, part of the commitment that we've made, part of
the promise of the revolution, part of the promise of the First Amendment is that we
allow all speech, we let the marketplace decide what we're going to believe in.
I mean, that has come to us since all over Wendell Holmes' brilliant dissent in Abrams
versus United States, where he said that people who were organizing against the government
were permitted to do that.
And that time has unseated many fighting faiths, and the power of our constitution lies in
that we allow all ideas to exist and we filter them through the market.
And for 100 years, we have had jurisprudence that has simply built upon that and built
upon that.
And what troubles me is anytime I see anybody coming after that, I have a problem with that.
So it's there for, the First Amendment is there for Nazis, for Klansmen, for Westboro
Baptist Church, for anybody, it's there for the speech you hate.
And look, my nine-year-old daughter knows that.
So why don't the attorneys that are signing some of these complaints or some of the fools
that call themselves journalists who might write a headline like Alex Jones doesn't deserve
the First Amendment?
I mean, that is probably the most anti-American thing I can hear anybody say, and it's not
because it's Alex Jones.
Put anybody's name in there.
Anybody's name in there.
And what's worse, Mark, is that they then misrepresent what I've said, and then the
media only covers, it's like they're defaming me while accusing me of defaming them, and
I agree, this is nothing new, but it's got to be, at least from what I've studied history.
And now you've been doing this 30-something years, and Roger, you've been doing it 40.
It's the most intense, though, I've ever seen attack where they're like, maybe it's time
to repeal the First Amendment.
I mean, they're talking like that.
Yeah, there is talk like that, not just in the civil lawsuits context, but I think we've
all seen attacks on free speech at campuses, for example.
When a conservative speaker comes to speak, whether it's Milo Yiannopoulos or Christina
Hop Summers, or last, just a couple of weeks ago at CUNY, we had Professor Josh Blackman.
There is this belief that freedom of expression has its limits, and those limits are wherever
it makes them uncomfortable.
And I just argued a case in Montana on behalf of a publisher of a Nazi website, The Daily
Stormer, and when I was there, you know, it's not anything on that page that I'm defending.
It's not any of the statements that I'm defending.
In fact, personally, they're not the kind of thing that I would like to see.
I wish they would.
Sure, but if they lose their right, if they lose their right, we lose, all right, Roger
Stone.
He's been targeted by states.
Want to comment?
No, he's absolutely right.
I spoke at Sienna College there in New York last Sunday.
Huge controversy about that program.
Members of the faculty resigning over the fact that we were allowed to speak.
Kudos to Sienna College, a Jesuit institution for allowing all points of view to be expressed.
What we have here is an admission by the left that they've lost.
They can't win a debate.
You speak, then I speak, then you speak, then I speak, and we exchange ideas.
They can't win that anymore.
So their answer to everything is, you must be silenced.
You must be shut up.
And you're right.
There is no, there is no line.
It's whatever makes them uncomfortable.
So let me ask attorney Mark Randas and one of the top, and I slap back, attorneys out
there, I recognize that.
What do you think we should do?
I mean, I've got a counter to them all.
I'm doing it.
They're kind of freaking out that I'm fighting back.
I mean, what do you, where do you see this going?
What do we need to do?
The one thing, the step one is recommit to protecting freedom of expression.
And by that, what I mean is, you know, when I was just, when I'm defending somebody who
a lot of people might find objectionable, I try to remind everybody that the rule you
may set down today for the Nazi applies equally to the civil rights activist of tomorrow.
And you stick a gag in their mouth, you stick a gag in their mouth, you did it yourself.
Exactly right.
Yeah.
Or, you know, any stick you made, you may decide to bring in is going to be used to
beat you.
And so remember that you need to recommit to freedom of expression.
And I say this because I've been very pleased by people on the right, for example, when
this professor recently ran to Gerard who came out and was saying, you know, these really
kind of terrible things about Barbara Bush.
The timing was wrong.
It was in bad taste.
Frankly, I found it abhorrent and, you know, I'm no fan of the Bushes, but I don't think
the time to express that is when they're in mourning, especially when it's personal attacks.
And I saw many conservative commentators and journalists stand up for her free speech rights.
That was a good move because you don't find that same thing.
Well, they have the right to say that it was in bad taste, you know, you said some bad
things as well.
But your, but the whole point is, is that that's what it comes down to about Roger Stone
right here.
You're absolutely right that you've got to protect everybody's speech.
I don't think it's good luck to speak ill of the newly dead.
But Barbara Bush is a saint, by the way, Roger.
You've been a bad person.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
Info Wars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate, because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
On GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone
to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at infowarslife.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral, sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure, deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence
every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it
in Full Wars Life.
It take hours.
Michael ZX Plus, now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics,
it knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglinone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body,
then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle, that's a spray you do, you can also swallow
it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I won't miss you and I won't ever take you back.
You know, here's the thing, America has a lot of problems, swashbuckling, free-booting,
libertine, whatever you want to call it, but these other countries, where they go, I want
national healthcare like England, or I want to be like Venezuela, even just like five
years ago, Sean Penn was like, we need to be like Venezuela, Venezuela, they were eating
their dogs three years ago, they're eating people now.
And we've got Mark John Rondaza, who's a really good anti-slap lawyer, and a First
Amendment lawyer, and a guy that teaches law to students around the country.
Here's her with us, Roger Stones with us, we'll have a shot in a little bit of the next
hour, he's leaving us in 10 minutes.
I know I've got lawyers on this, but I've talked to a lot of smart people, they say,
you're a great guy, you've been on the show before, I know you're prominent, and a great
First Amendment guy, but without getting into my cases, what advice would you give me?
I mean, I don't want to have to sue, count or sue these people filing lies about me,
but I have to, because they're going to keep getting minions, the law firms are, to go
after me, Mark.
And then I read these losses with typos, and then they say, Owen Troyer said this, and
then he said, and then they say, kick Daniels, it's not even written right, and my lawyers
go, don't talk about how it's bad, wait till he gets to court, and I talk about it, they
will withdraw the suit and then refile it, and I'm wondering, what are these law firms
just crazily defaming these insane lies, so then it can be put in the media, I guess
they think it's protected if it's in court.
I mean, what would you do if you were me?
I'm just asking you, ballpark here, watching what we're going through, what would you do
against these hordes of raiders coming in to try to take us out, because all I can do is
sue them, and I guess the media is just going to ignore it.
I was kind of worried when I countered to all these folks, that it would kind of look
bad like Jones is suing these poor people, but they attacked first, instead the media
is just, it's like white noise.
So Mark, what would you do?
What would you do, Mark?
Go ahead and pipe my audio to Mark, I think it's, oh that's Skype, Skype is such a magical
thing, but it's just, and it's somewhat the Skype unit in here, I swear, I think we should
replace this unit.
Mark, can you hear me, I see Mark's back.
Okay, Mark, Mark.
Yeah, I'm back now.
You're back.
I mean, you heard most of what I said.
What do you think, I mean, without being my lawyer, I understand, just as a gestalt, what
would you do?
Look, step one is to recognize that our First Amendment jurisprudence, the roster of people
who are on it, who have protected freedom of expression, are by and large conscripts,
meaning the New York Times did not want to be in New York Times versus Sullivan.
So if you are the target here, you have an opportunity, you have an opportunity to stand
up for freedom of expression.
So I would say anybody who finds that they're being targeted this way, recognize that the,
what is the mission?
The mission is to shut somebody up and to get their ideas out of the marketplace.
So it's a sacred right to just stand up and fight for free speech when you've been wrongfully
sued, you're saying it's really a holy duty of your Americana to do this.
Bingo.
And it's a privilege.
Now, of course, those privileges don't come cheap.
Freedom isn't free, as they say.
So I would say that, you know, you have enough of an audience here, I would say to crowdfund
your defense, not only because that helps defray the cost, but, you know, when you
see a crowdfunded defense that raises a lot of money really quickly, the plaintiff's lawyers
might start to see that your amount of support is greater than they think.
The other thing I would make sure that you do is, you know, not give in to any of them.
I mean, this is, you know, I'm not saying anything about any particular case, but when
I see a coordinated effort to try to shut down any player in the marketplace of ideas, you
know, it's a form of terrorism, and I don't use that term lightly, but it is an attempt
to abuse the court system in order to erase ideas you don't like that you're not comfortable
fighting in the marketplace of ideas.
Don't let them get away with it, and, you know, all of your viewers should not let them
get away with it.
But more importantly is people who don't agree with you shouldn't let them get away
with it either, and when you can harness people to get together in order to protect freedom
of expression, people who will say, my tribe is freedom of expression.
Not my tribe is people that believe in what I believe in or people who don't.
I don't really care whose free speech rights it is that are being trampled.
I will stand up to protect them, whether it's Randa Gerar, who I find to be one of the most
reprehensible human beings in America, whether it's the Nazi party, the KKK, or whether it's
the Communist Party, every one of them has an equal right to be there.
And the intellectual texture of America, the strength of America, the idea of America erodes
and begins to grow a cancer if we don't protect that.
So nobody should be cheering bogus lawsuits against anybody just because it's gonna shut
somebody up that they don't like.
Those, anyone who is on the side of doing that, that's our common enemy.
And that's my next question, that's my next question, is you're a smart guy, please come
on next week for a full hour.
Why do they put in the news articles quoting lawyers, he's bad, we wanna bankrupt him and
shut him up, and then my lawyers go, don't tell him, that's what gets it thrown out.
Don't say it, but I have to because I have to tell the public, so strategy-wise, while
I wait till it gets to court, that no one covers it anyways.
Like why are the lawyers and the law firms in Georgetown, like saying things I didn't
say in the suits, which we know are frauds, gets it thrown out, and then gets the slap
back as you know as an expert, and then why are they then saying we wanna shut him down,
we hate him, he's scum, they're showing the malice of forethought, intend to do harm.
I'm not a lawyer, top lawyer like you, but am I right when I'm saying, Mark?
Look, people tend to get blinded by ideology.
So when I feel like I am more effective when I'm defending somebody's speech that I actually
don't particularly like.
When a lawyer drinks a little too much of their own Kool-Aid, they become ineffective.
When I saw the case against you had been filed by, of all things, a public interest clinic
at my, sorry to say, my alma mater, where they're actually using a public interest clinic,
a so-called civil rights clinic in order to go after somebody else's civil liberties.
It's pretty obvious that the people running the clinic are pretty ideologically driven,
and they are not driven by doing what I think is the right thing.
So look, they're gonna put ideological crap in there.
It's not that uncommon to do that if you can find a way to control the narrative in a case
like this.
It's not a bad strategy.
They're writing this complaint so that journalists that are sympathetic to them pick it up and
write about it.
It's not a terrible strategy.
Sure, it influenced the jury, but they say times, they say, I, I said this guy killed
the woman.
I said Soros funding Antifa and the police standing down created the melee that allowed
it.
I didn't say that.
A photographer killed the woman.
Well, you know, I don't want to, I'm not representing that I want to get into that
very lawsuit, but I will say that if you, uh, there, if somebody wants to write a defamation
complaint in order to hold someone responsible for something they've said, you got to be pretty
careful to make sure that exactly what it is.
Well, there can be defamation just as a general principle.
There can be defamation by implication, but if you do that, uh, it's a much harder standard
to meet.
Um, so, you know, I did look at this complaint, uh, you know, I, I didn't find it to be particularly
well done just as a, just, just from a point of view of a critique of the art of writing
a complaint.
Uh, it did seem to be more ideologically driven than legally driven.
And, uh, you know, I, I hope that your lawyers are, are able to point that out to the judge
and the judge.
Let's be clear.
They've already pulled, they've already pulled the first version.
They say they're going to file another one, but we're just waiting with crickets playing.
They've been pulled.
Well, you know, maybe they will, maybe they'll clean it up, but you know, you have a, this
is just one of many cases across the country where you have problems like this, you know,
the, the ideological left is currently, you know, and, and it wasn't this way 15 years
ago, 15 years ago, the ideological left were the champions of free speech.
And I was screaming at people on the right saying, what the hell are you doing?
Me too.
I'm still screaming.
I just had to turn and scream in a different direction.
I'm still that crazy.
Let me ask you this question.
Then Mark, when does it hit rock bottom?
Because I see just cheerleading everywhere saying silence, Trump criticizing the media,
take speech, silence, Alex Jones today.
And we're, he's going to get journalists killed.
They're attacking us.
We attack back and they say silence us and it's major publications.
That's dangerous.
Yeah.
We, we hit rock bottom when nobody wants to defend freedom of expression.
And you know, I find a lot of the rank and file right seems to be saying, well, let's
make the left play by their own rules.
That's when we hit rock bottom.
That's a trap.
That's a trap.
Right.
And you know, as much as it may feel uncomfortable to play fair with them, even if they're not
playing fair with you, I happen to believe that that's the way to constitutional salvation.
Oh, absolutely.
Whether there's some racist black group or white supremacist group that I hate, let
me do it back in 60 second hoodie, five minutes with you, let Roger ask some questions and
I'm going to get Mark on with us again.
He's a really smart guy, but this is about America.
It's not about info wars, but when we win these lawsuits, no coverage.
Remember that Mike and Arizona are on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time info wars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex.
Thank you.
I use the bio true selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who are big, normal
toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for the info wars life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winner
sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D three.
Winner sun is a premium quality vitamin D three nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D three content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D three.
The research and development took over two years, but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D three product in the world.
Read the facts and info wars life.com about winner sun vitamin D three.
Not only does vitamin D three promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalist are targeting.
Visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show crashing through the lies and disinformation.
All right, Mark Randas is here.
Rodgers Jones and a cohost this fourth hour he's taken over in a minute war rooms coming
up.
Listen, I don't think of us as that important.
Really I don't.
I promote Americana.
They take my devil's advocate interviews where I say I think everybody died at Sandy Hook's
you know because it looks like the parents are nice.
They're good people.
I want to believe it.
Just don't blame gun owners, but I can see how they had dead babies that didn't die in
incubators.
We launched all these wars and killed millions that the government could run hoaxes or groups
could.
I could see how it's all fake.
Now that's me repeating what I said years ago.
I'm not restating that now.
The media is so deceptive.
They will cut that out and I'm not going to change my speech for them and they'll run
me saying six seconds in a Hillary ad saying that and they take it as weakness that I'm
like no I believe kids died.
They go oh really here's this clip where you said they didn't out of context and they keep
recycling going why won't Alex Jones quit saying the kids died and they just keep for
years playing the old clips and I just sit there and now they're suing me and I'm just
like my lawyer's like oh it's a bad suit don't worry but we got a countersum after
so it stops and I'm just like god almighty I can see the optics of that.
So Mark just other key points the minutes we have here with Roger Stone if you can stay
on their segment that's fine but if you got to go understand other key points about this
critical historical fight because Mark Bailin and other big lawyers on the First Amendment
they said well we've talked to the ACLU and other groups they go oh absolutely this is
protected this is out of control is dangerous but we don't want to get involved we're scared
it's the first time the ACLU that would defend NAMBLO or the KKK which I support their free
speech but I wouldn't defend them let's somebody else do it you know it's like Alex Jones
you can't do it you're right the climate has changed and it's so dangerous Mark.
Well yeah look the ACLU fell asleep at the free speech switch years ago so they I no
longer consider them to be a serious free speech protecting organization and I find
that distressing because for most of my adult life I was a donor not anymore they are far
more ideologically driven and far more concerned about civil rights rather than civil liberties
which are often intention but you know you have a I think part of what you can do is
continue to educate people on what the First Amendment is because I have just been delighted
over the past few years at how much more awareness there is now about First Amendment rights
you know when I became a First Amendment lawyer 15 years ago you know it was sort of an obscure
practice area that only a few people did and not that many people understood and now that
there are lawsuits against people who might write negative reviews of companies there
are people who will get cease and desist letters for Facebook posts you know even the rank
and file American is starting to feel how their First Amendment rights can always be
messed with but it's happening everywhere and it's not just it's not just defamation
suits designed to try to bring down media that somebody doesn't want to have out there
it's not just bogus lawsuits like this but it's also for example my firm is involved
in a number of cases now where people are trying to close courtrooms because they don't
want what's supposed to go on in the people's courtroom to be televised whether it's celebrities
you know like there's a crack down on transparency that even the communist Chinese government
a few months ago praised the US media and government and said good you're learning to
censor and I mean he's like oh we're good with the communist Chinese mass murders in
history patting us on the head yeah I mean look the thing that happens is when you don't
have transparency in government you don't have transparency in the courts you can wind
up with all kinds of abuses and even if you don't have abuses it erodes the trust in the
public I mean you brought up an infographic before about a CNN article I wrote about
outrage over the Google memo well now there's a lawsuit against Google by James DeMora the
author of that memo and Google just moved to seal the whole thing the complaint is no
longer available on the public court website back in 60 seconds let's finish up with Roger
Stone and Mark on the other side say with us President Donald Trump says the US is negotiating
for the release of American hostages in North Korea President Trump was asked during a joint
press conference with the Japanese Prime Minister whether or not the three Americans release would
be a precondition for sitting down with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un Trump said his
administration was fighting very diligently for the safe return of the three captives adding we
are doing our very best as you know they've been there a long time in its harsh treatment Trump
noted the case of auto warm beer the American student who died after being released last year
by Pyongyang the Associated Press quotes a senior White House official who says CIA director Mike
Pompeo discussed the hostages during his trip to North Korea over Easter weekend the official says
Mr. Trump is hopeful they'll be released soon the president says the face-to-face with Kim Jong-un
will likely take place in early June but he added that if the meeting is not going to be fruitful
he will respectfully leave leon macadoo info wars dot com
coming to you from the former united states of america from deep in the heart of texas it's
alex jones and roger stone is about to take over the rest of the hour and mark randaza a great
lawyer randaza dot com and begin a very prominent free speech lawyer he got into it when it was
very very very esoteric and nobody really cared because we thought it was secure now we see it's
under full assault and i remember again liking liberals because they were anti-war and pro-free
speech i didn't agree with them on property rights or high taxes or you know things like that or
being anti-gun but liberals were free speech i remember hearing like conservatives going ban the
kkk from austin marching and you'd have the acl you found a lawsuit no they're going to march
and i'd go out and tell them they were scumbags there's all the videos of that
but now it's not that it's not just that they don't want your free speech they demonize you so
roger we're about to finish up here with attorney mark randaza but you've got some comments as well
but we were finishing up with the historic battle mark and roger both of you finishing up here
i don't think they'll be successful there's such a history of this here uh the average american i
know of every race color and creed may be lazy because we've lived the freedom so long but
when somebody tries to take something from us we wake up and i'm lazy too and the fact that
i'm actually not intimidated by all this because i didn't say the stuff they said i didn't do the
things they did off record i won't say the suits i've settled a few things over the years that you
know what i think i was wrong there boom let's settle that i'm all about paying up you know i've
got responsibility this stuff i didn't do this stuff is fraud so at your gut level both of you
where do you see this ending and what does the listeners ship me to do mark
well look when somebody says i believe in free speech but you got to stop them right there and
say anything that comes after that conjunction negates the first half of that sentence you need
to stand up for freedom of expression whether it's donating to a legal defense fund for somebody
who might not be able to afford that defense uh whether it's calling somebody out especially when
they're on your ideological side when they're anti-free speech and remember that whatever they do
to somebody you don't like today they're going to do to somebody you like tomorrow maybe even you
so what i what i'd say is we all have to untether ourselves from the actual political
ideology of the day and remain anchored on freedom of expression as a fundamental not just american
value i like to talk about it as an american value but it's a global value i mean i stand up for it
not just here but you know i think uh we all you know back when the charlie hebdo shooting
happened i see that poster behind you i see you got a charlie hebdo exactly i don't like charlie
hebdo absolutely they're really nasty they're mean but damn it they got a right to do it
exactly and if we don't stand up for charlie hebdo you know we don't stand up for you we
don't stand up for you know the the workers socialist daily then we don't stand up for
anything i mean do you really want to live in a country or a world where freedom from being
offended is greater than freedom let me ask you this question you said they're doing this test
is worth threat just and then roger on this why do you think the media is i don't just say this
we don't talk about it enough they're obsessed with us they we're under hundreds of articles a day
sometimes thousands it's almost all lies it's insane they all we reach a lot of people okay
seven eight nine ten million a day if we're lucky usually five million a day you want to make you
know why are they so obsessed with info wars because we embarrass them because we we prove
that they're lying half the time they want to have the only narrative they want to have a monopoly
on political discourse and they object because there's another point of view and they don't
like our and there's one argument they think is i'm so bombastic sometimes i'm weak and so maybe
pick him people accept getting rid of free speech because alex can act like a clown what do you
think mark look i think that uh you know journalism tends to i mean when i went to journalism school
it was almost everybody in the uh in the program was pretty left leaning it's gonna it's kind of
attract people that have a little bit of a leftist streak to them i mean that's why i went into it
i'd consider myself to be pretty far left um although you know they reject me now because
i believe in freedom of expression because you're an actual but well yeah i call myself more of a
classical liberal yeah in the spirit of the enlightenment but you know that's a i'm an
endangered species now but i believe that they are it's lazy you know it's very easy to look at
somebody who supports an ideological view that you don't like try to pretend you're objective
and then use your platform to try to attack them you know it also and if you're in kind of a bubble
where you only interact with other people who believe in what you believe in you like that
adulation that you get somebody a liberal attacks alex jones the next cocktail party he's at everybody's
got you know patent him on the back telling him how great he is um somebody like me stands up for
you and the next time i'm hanging out with my friends in massachusetts i get a whole lot of
i believe in free speech but and then i got to start telling him no shut up you don't know what
you're talking about um and then i have to give an impromptu class on the first amendment when
i'm just trying to enjoy a glass of wine and a lobster but other than that you know we just
have to remember that the war is not about healthcare the war is not about uh you know
senate confirmation the war is not about any of these petty little disputes of the day the war
is about what that constitution means because we signed a contract in blood when we wrote that
and we have decided that that is the contract that we have with one another and with the state i
agree and it's created that we want to raise that contract it's created we raise that select track
that contract is there to protect you and anytime you see somebody that's who speaks you hate
you need to take out that contract that you have with the forces of the government and with people
who are ideologically opposed to it and say we're going to live up to this deal because i want that
deal for me exactly they're trying to get us to get rid of our birthright and they're selling us on
classical tyranny say which one about america having this real freedom created the dynamo
of real discussion it's messy sometimes but this is america and you know it's all it's it's all
we've got and they're trying to take free speech worldwide as he said alex they attack you because
you're not boring they attack you because you're entertaining because you're able to get people
watch and listen to your point of view because you entertain them because you're colorful because
you're flamboyant trust me if you were boring and if nobody was tuning into info wars right now
they wouldn't be suing you all right well listen uh mark randaza thank you for coming on randaza.com
thanks for your defense of all of our basic liberties this great experiment of the first
amendment and we hope to get you back very very soon thank you all right that was a good good
interview uh don't like you said i'm honored to be attacked by this i just hope the listeners
understand like mark said oh it may be inconvenient this is happening to you if they win some of this
stuff it can shut us down i don't want to encourage them but the only weapon i've got is the truth i
can't play macky of ellie because once i start down that road it just you know it never ends
all i've got is the truth and you know we're winning some of this stuff they just keep more
more more which makes you want to fight them harder roger because they're really authoritarian well
it's also why i keep pointing out in the war room and also here we have a new donate button at the
info wars.com store if you're not in the market for one of our great farm uh one of our great
nutraceuticals or a book or a t-shirt but you want to help the fight for freedom recognize
that these legal expenses run to hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars
per case per case uh i'm i'm living it right now i have had no choice but to set up a legal
dnc obama they've all sued you and people say oh we're going to fight tyranny get on the field
we're on the field roger's on the field he needs money you're right we should have a go funding
campaign because they won't let us have one there somewhere else because we're we're patriots we
can't have one we're so we've got to have crowdsourcing we've got to have fund registers for you and
me and everybody because this sends a message they think if they get roger stone they get alex
shone's they get donald trump they can fold the whole thing in don't people get we're the outpost
we're the front line we're the vanguard they get us they think you're all gonna buckle
they know we like to fight they know we're not scared that's why they drool to get us
that was exactly right and and there's two goals here one is to generate bad press
terrible headlines for us the other one is to just break us financially
destroy our families bankrupt us just making a motion to dismiss these phony lawsuits can
cost a hundred thousand dollars so that's why urge people to go to the info wars dot com store
send a contribution go to stone defense fund dot com send a contribution we need it folks we really
need it info or store.com's got great products everybody needs x2 is getting ready to sell out
so we got 25% off real red pill 50% off with supermobile volatility that's going to have to
end the next few days info or store.com or triple 82533139 all right we're going to come back play
a little tape because we've had lunch there for like two hours waiting we're going to come back
we got a lot of great videos to play we're going to play whatever the crew chooses we've got a lot
of cool stuff in the next segment and roger will come back live ladies and gentlemen straight ahead
but I haven't gotten to Tucker Carlson GOP run against openly extremists don't run against
Hillary maybe we should talk about that we also have Sean Hannity taking people to the woodshed
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a
challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health
share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon
no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right
from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use
order today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat bacon.com heart disease is on the rise clogged
arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the
symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular
heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here how heart and
body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america my blood pressure
has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier
i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body extract to
everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a
preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two months supply today by
calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify
the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's
made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that
i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those
rush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support
and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z
shield and force life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
so
so we humans have developed a number of prisons of the mind things that we just imagine to be our
limitations were imagined to be true and it limits what we think is possible and it limits
what choices we make here are two of the biggest ones i talk about this a lot one is the false
belief the history repeats it doesn't it never does it just looks like it because we have this
pattern recognition brain so anytime we see anything that reminds us of another thing we
say well there it is history repeating again but that's not what's happening history can't repeat
because all the variables are changing all the time so you can't ever have the same starting
point you ever had in history history never repeats ever if you think it does you're in a mental
prison if you think it doesn't do you know what happens if you think that history doesn't repeat
it then you can become president of the united states without ever being a politician if you
believe the history repeats you don't even try president trump is not in a mental prison
did he think that north korea was unsolvable nope did he think he couldn't negotiate trade
deals nope he didn't think that did he think he couldn't give people nicknames and win an election
that way with other stuff of course nope did he think he could you know that nobody could talk
about immigration without being labeled a racist and therefore you know their life was over didn't
seem to bother him he consistently shows you that history doesn't repeat where do you get that
well probably it traces back to the same place i got it the power of positive thinking remember
his pastor when he was a kid was norman vincent peel who wrote the power of positive thinking
the power of positive thinking is very close to this it's very close to thinking uh to to the
belief that you're not in a mental prison history doesn't define you you know you you can you can
get into that little mental prison here's another one that i like to look at this is another mental
prison all right that the problem has to be the solution now this will require some explaining
right but it's a mental trap it's a prison if you think that the only solutions are things that
are closely related to the problem i'll show you how that works in a real world situation
first some context when slavery was the problem you could say that you know white people were
essentially the problem for slavery right and it required white people to do something massively
different for slavery to go away so in this case the problem and the solution were very similar
it was white people white people were the problem white people had to change then move fast forward
to the civil rights era again even though everybody was involved in the civil rights right you know all
the every every group and gender and everybody was involved in that but the people who had to
change the most the people who had to pass laws etc were white people so white people were kind of
the problem and white people were kind of the solution too all right but when you get to what
i would call the last mile there's what i call the last mile fog in these earlier situations
it was very clear what had to be done all right you have to you have to get rid of slavery you
have to change some laws you have to prosecute some people who violate the laws so it's fairly
clear what to do what the problem was etc but now you get to this last mile where things are
way better but still lots of things could be far better than they are and i'll give you an example
of what i mean by the fog the fog is where people don't even quite agree what the problem is all
right so i saw i think it was shaun king was tweeting around yesterday some statistics showing
that um i hope i have this right an unarmed black man has something like four times more chance of
being shot by police in in a um you know an inappropriate shooting whatever name they put
on that but i am unarmed remember and nobody has it gone in any of these examples but an
unarmed black man has a four times greater chance of being shot by police now i lingered on that a
little bit because i know many of you are throwing up in your mouths right now because you disagree
with that being true so you actually disagree on whether the statistic is correct now i don't know
if it's correct or not but i know that a lot of you are saying something like this all right
you know some version of this you're probably thinking the people watching this periscope
you're thinking to yourself but wait a minute wouldn't it be true that the greatest number of
unarmed people in general are going to be shot wherever there's the highest crime so wouldn't
you expect that if you're in a high crime neighborhood unarmed people who are innocent
are going to be shot at a far greater rate so wouldn't the poverty rate really be the main
variable here and unfortunately if more black people are in bad neighborhoods they're in high
crime neighborhoods of course more innocent people of all types are going to be harmed
for all reasons now does that explain a way shone king's statistic i have no idea but nobody
else does either i've never seen that debated have you i've never seen an article where somebody
where somebody gave that statistic and then also gave the other side and said well but have they
controlled for this variable maybe they have i don't know but you don't know either so that's my
point there's this fog about this last mile and you know what do you do about it so we're coming
to a point that i think will define the golden age at least in some ways let's see if you can
does that help you see this better in which we're separating the problem from the solution
and what i mean by that is sort of the philosophy you're seeing from kanda zoans and you can google
her if you're not familiar with her she's a conservative african-american woman who's
become a very important voice because she represents a point of view that you don't see as much as
as you probably will in the future now what's interesting is that and what i mean by by
separating the problem from the solution is that the conservative view which kanda's holds
is that society has done what it can do meaning that white people have done what they can do to
make the laws you know as close as possible to enforce the laws etc and that the last mile
no matter no matter whose problem it is no matter who causes the problem this is what's different
it doesn't matter if white people are or are not the cause of the last mile problem they can't fix it
they can do what they can do but they're not really the solution so kanda says i would say
realization is that the problem and the solution are disconnected and if you're still locked in the
past thinking that white people have to do something you know much different you're going to be missing
your opportunities it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period
you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine
disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two
cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and
now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 1877
99 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y healthcare reform is confusing
but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford
needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own
healthcare costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is
an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each
other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org
that's liberty on call dot org you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products
we have it in fuller's life it take hours michael zx plus and now has a lower price it's stronger
it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back
in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preclinone that's the
precursor all the natural hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot
more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
the reason info wars life has five star ratings on major third party sites is because
i want products i'm gonna use for my family i take this my family takes this and then it funds the
operation but the most hardcore truthful information you're gonna find anywhere so what you find in
our news is the same thing you find in our products at infowarslife.com if i ever forget to take them
like i'll i have a noticeable difference i don't feel good the nascent iodine is one of the ones
that was life changing for me yeah i've actually have just run out of my super female i had a
few bottles at my house and i've been taking it again hitting the gym once again very exciting
feeling great looking good so and i know my hair's luxurious once again so obviously a super female
is amazing i love it nascent iodine is essential survival shield x2 if there's one product that
i would say is life changing that i would suggest it's nascent iodine survival shield x2 it's got
a five star rating it's a win win info warslife.com info wars life is launching its newest product
we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best
concentrated fibers uh from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the
very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our
50 billion live active culture for a life as well as myco zx that targets the yeast the mold and the
fungus is in the gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber
product and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really
big savings and get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these
products to you bodies sold out in a month uh strongest concentrated turmeric formula we
could come up with it's sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out
and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today info wars life.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
he's not a dog he's a bully and he's a bitch he's a punk he's a dog he's a pig and he can suck my
he's a con a bullshit artist a mutt i'll meet him in a hotel room any other day of the week
and give him a Louisville slugger i'd like to punch him in the face kiss my mother f***ing ass you
bitch punk f***ing sucker
pointing what appears to be a water gun the image of president donald trump
projected on a white boy our teacher pale moody has not been seen by countless viewers across the
internet yes i have thought an awful lot about blowing up the white house
it's an actor dressed to look just like president donald trump as he's assassinated on stage pictures
and video depicting comedian kathy griffin holding the bloody decapitated head of president trump
are no joking matter for the secret service a rhetoric that has inspired the violence has
come from the mainstream of the democratic party they're involved in the coup an active attempt
to start a bloody civil war welcome back i'm roger stone sitting in for alex jones and you're on
the alex jones show if you followed our earlier segment we spoke extensively about the democratic
national committee's omnibus lawsuit against the russian state the russian army donald trump's
campaign donald trump jr the president's son-in-law uh jared kushner paul maniforte wiki leeks julia
nassange at all let me be very clear this lawsuit very much like the lawsuits filed against info wars
and alex jones is bogus it's meritless it's baseless it has no evidence or proof all it has
is a crazy left-wing conspiracy theory the conspiracy theory goes like this the trump campaign
and agents for donald trump worked with the russians to hack the democratic national
committee's email and give the information to wiki leeks who published it it's a fairytale
it's a fraud it's a canard it's nonsense but now in this new phase that tyler nixon one of my
attorneys calls a lawfare we don't have to have evidence or proof the allegation is the proof
that they offer and therefore the purpose of the democratic national committee lawsuit is
one fundraising and two the ability to garner a negative headline and that is what this is really
about there's a substantial reason why i think this lawsuit will backfire however remember that
the entire lawsuit is based on the premise that the democratic national committee's servers were
hacked and that the information was lagged to wiki leeks allegedly this hacking was done by the
russians i'm not convinced that the democratic national committee was ever hacked at all counter
terrorism experts like bill benny rey mcgovern and others have said that there's substantially more
forensic evidence that would indicate that the democratic national committee files were
downloaded to a portable zip drive or other portable drive and taken out the back door
isn't it interesting that the democratic national committee has never allowed the fbi
to examine their allegedly hacked servers instead depending on crowd strike which is
a left-wing vendor organization whose credibility is questionable to begin with to put forward
the assertion that the dnc was hacked by the russians therefore this past monday my attorneys
served notice on the democratic national committee that they are to preserve their servers no hillary
style bleaching please because we want to examine them and to put uh uh the entire question of whether
they were hacked front and center because their entire fraudulent lawsuit depends on it uh this
is going to cost hundreds of thousands of dollars i'm experiencing the exact same thing that alex
jones and the entire info wars front line is experiencing this is the new concept known as
lawfare where they file a completely fraudulent completely false lawsuit against you meant to
garner a negative headline and then it cost you literally tens of thousands of dollars just to mount
a legal defense to move to uh dismiss these fraudulent suits this is the new tactic of the
left it is meant to garner negative publicity for you bad press but more precisely it is designed
to bankrupt you to bankrupt info wars to bankrupt alex jones to bankrupt roger stone
what can you do well if you go to the info wars dot com store if you go to our website there is a
button where you can give a contribution so if you're not in the market for one of our really
superior nutraceuticals or a t-shirt or a book or any of the other great products we sell you
can go to the site and send a contribution twenty five dollars fifty dollars a hundred
dollars two hundred and fifty dollars some people have given as much as five hundred or a thousand
every little bit helps every little bit counts alex jones is not exaggerating when he tells you
before it's over it will cost hundreds of thousands of dollars perhaps even millions
to beat back this effort to silence us you see what they want to do is to promulgate the lawsuits
and then use the phony heads up headlines as their rationale for removing us from the internet
removing us from youtube removing us from facebook removing us from twitter that's their game
and we have no choice but to fight we don't look for protracted lawsuits we're not looking to get
into a back and forth where we have to countersue but if it becomes necessary that is what we'll
do on the other hand we cannot do it without your help so please go to the info or store site now
order some of our great nutraceutical products or send us a contribution but your assistance
is needed we're going to be taking phone calls in this next hour that number eight seven seven
eight nine two five three nine questions about the dnc's lawsuit questions about the komi book tour
questions about anything you want to talk about the two-way dialogue with info warriors is something
that i think is vitally vitally important uh i also want to mention that there were reports this
morning that the u.s senate will finally take up the nomination of richard rick grannell uh as our
ambassador to germany this is good news indeed rick grannell who worked at the united nations
and under the bush administration as a spokesperson for the united states uh strong and articulate
donald trump supporter in the 2016 campaign a good man whose nomination has been stalled too long
so kudos to mitch mcconnell and to the u.s senate for finally moving this very worthy nomination
we are surprised frankly that the pace of the president's ambassadorial nominations has been
been extraordinarily slow but now finally a breakthrough in the consideration of the nomination
of rick grannell uh and there and there you have him um it is uh important to note that rick grannell
is openly gay and that may be some reason why the senate and some in the senate have stalled his
nomination but finally justice will be done and his nomination will be heard i'm roger stowe
this is the alex joneshow and we will be right back
president donald trump says the u.s is negotiating for the release of american hostages in north
korea president trump was asked during a joint press conference with the japanese prime minister
whether or not the three americans release would be a precondition for sitting down with
the north korean leader kim jong-un trump said his administration was fighting very diligently
for the safe return of the three captives adding we are doing our very best as you know they've
been there a long time in its harsh treatment trump noted the case of auto warm beer the american
student who died after being released last year by pyong yang the associated press quotes a senior
white house official who says cia director mike Pompeo discussed the hostages during his trip to
north korea over easter weekend the official says mr trump is hopeful they'll be released soon
the president says the face to face with kim jong-un will likely take place in early june
but he added that if the meeting is not going to be fruitful he will respectfully leave lian macadoo
info wars dot com you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products
we have an info wars life it take hours michael zx plus it now is a lower price it's stronger
it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back in
stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor
all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino
acids so you can upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal
silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do
you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more
without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature
to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support
it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360
win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want
to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that
patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the
remnant of america to reignite those rush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as
you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to
change our bodies with z shield and info wars life dot com it's been sold out for months and now
it's back it's michael zx plus lower price more ingredients because we scaled up signed to your
contract with a even bigger organic manufacturer and producer scalability but now we're able to go
at 50 off to $27 instead of $39 50 off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient
michael zx now it's the other side of the equation everybody thinks about probiotics now great they
are for your gut because of toxins in the environment pesticides herbicides but more
importantly than bad bacteria the probiotics help display yeast mold creates slime walls
and once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there it causes all sorts of
serious issues well this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known
to destroy that slime wall don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late pick
up a bottle of the new and improve michael zx plus now from the info wars store
you're listening to the alex jones show
you are listening to an info wars dot com front line report if you are receiving this transmission
you are the resistance and now your host roger stone
welcome back i'm roger stone and you're in the right place that's right it's the alex jones show
it was through the leadership of info wars and white coat labs a conservative pro consumer group
that we ended the testing on helpless dogs by the veterans administration we were shocked
to learn that bizarre medical experiments were still being conducted on man's best friend
and in some cases being conducted on puppies as well as young as six weeks these bizarre experiments
included collapsing their lungs drilling holes in their heads inducing heart attacks and so on
there's no scientific reason for these bizarre cool inhumane medical experiments
we appealed through a campaign here at info wars spearheaded by oan schreuer and myself on the
war room to urge people to contact the president and direct him to tell the veterans administration
to stop the inhumane treatment of man's best friend and we were successful in fact when the
veterans administration put forward a new rule that said these experiments could continue but only
with the approval of the secretary of the va it was overridden by a budget signed by the president
that wiped out all of the funding for these bizarre experiments chalk one up for the dogs
now however we have learned that the environmental protection agency under scott pruit is conducting
the same kind of bizarre medical experiments on helpless pups in this case what we are doing is
feeding them lard until they become obese and then subjecting them to all kinds of toxic fumes
to see if they die it's hard to believe that any of this has any legitimate medical purpose
so now we have to move from the va to the epa that's why i'm asking you to contact the epa
administrator scott pruit uh there's his email address pruit dot scott at epa.gov uh again pruit
dot scott at epa.gov and tell him to end the bizarre strange extreme medical experiments
on dogs hashtag dog lives matter so tweet it put it on your facebook post put it up at your instagram
but spread the word we want to do exactly what we did previously which is to empower public
opinion to empower you the individual info warriors and dog lovers across the political
spectrum to tell the federal government to end these archaic medical experiments
that have no medical or scientific value it is time to stop experimenting on defenseless
puppies and that means you scott pruit so one more time let's show that email address
because i want to maximize our impact please folks send an email right now to pruit dot scott at
epa.gov and urge him to lay off of the puppies this is a vitally important issue and it's the
kind of thing that we are going to be talking about more and more on the war room i also want to
mention uh as alex jones did that my next book stones rules will be in bookstores uh may 15th
also be available at the info wars site the info wars store this is an operating manual if you will
in other words it is a book of rules and things that i have learned in a 40 year career in american
politics uh but it's also beyond the political you will learn how much linen to show in the cough of
a well-tailored suit or you'll get the recipe for my mother's basic marinara sauce which is
um the secret to which is sin marzano tomatoes by the way uh and i think you will find this
extraordinarily useful i'm very pleased to say that i have an introduction by tucker carlsson
for stones rules and in that introduction tucker tells a story of going to his producers
and asking to have me on his show and being told no that roger stone is too controversial
now it's important to know that this was not at fox this was at cnn when ty when uh tucker was at
cnn and as i think all of you know i was banned by cnn and ms nbc uh back during the 2016 election
largely because i refused to back down from the narrative of bill clinton's epic abuse of women
and hillary clinton's role in suppressing those women bullying them threatening them intimidating
them into silence strange i could have sworn i was on with anderson cooper just days ago and
that i have an invitation pending from erin bernett and chris quomo and yes even jake tapper so their
ban didn't last very long maybe it's because what i do is newsworthy and i must say that i thought in
the interview with anderson cooper that he treated me entirely fairly it was a balanced and entirely
fair interview and i appreciated the opportunity to push back on this false narrative regarding
russian collusion uh or conspiracy or or a coordination with the russian state in the election
of donald trump something that literally never happened nor did i dine with julie nissange
nor did i uh receive anything including allegedly hacked emails from wiki leaks and passed them
on to the trump campaign a fairy tale a canard as we like to say a falsehood but still part and
partial of the overall efforts of the left to delegitimize this president to destabilize him
folks we have three percent economic growth that's robust economic growth the best that
barack obama could ever do was a point and a half an average we're on the cusp of a peace deal in
north korea the republicans and donald trump are bringing the american people both peace and
prosperity and that is what they will run on as far as we're concerned here at info wars though
we face the greatest single challenge to our existence ever we are the cutting edge we we
cover the stories nobody else will cover we bring you the truth no matter the cost and the cost is
great not only do we have to beat back these bogus lawsuits uh but we also are trying to do an
expansion here if you like the real news with david night in the morning if you enjoy the iconic
alex jones show if you're liking what oan shroyer and i are doing in the war room if you like our
expanded programming you'd like to see it expand more and you want to help us fight these lawsuits
that are meant to strangle our first amendment rights but then go to the info or store site now
and look at some of these extraordinary uh uh specials i particularly like the vitality and
balance combination pack uh this is the super male vitality in the red pill the red pill could be
the very best vitamin mineral combination i've ever used i like the uh the mind and body combination
as well stacking the red pill with uh brain force plus to me this is one of the best combinations
that i've experienced in terms of energy and vitality and now both of those at 50 off i honestly
don't know how alex jones does this but i think he understands that if you try our products and you
like our products you will come back and while i'm at it let me mention the auto ship option
bc they keep a small catch of these products aside for those who have pre-ordered through the
auto ship function that way you are never without let me recommend it to you
by the way uh we have barbecue brother we say barbecue earlier together uh top story
dredger report dot com uh is our article about kanya unleashed and now he doubles down so that's
up on info wars dot com let's let's click on it from dredger report dot com on the downstall is our
article kanya doubles down mob can't make me not love trump we are both dragon energy so there you
deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from high
quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and
melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions
of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life
we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars
life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over
to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com after being
sold out for months our best-selling super blue fluoride toothpaste is now back in stock info
wars store dot com the first shipment of super blue sold out in one week i thought it would be a six
month supply for listeners and since then people are beating down our doors wanting to be able to
resupply their super blue research across the board is clear in fact it's certified when bacteria
infect your gums it can enter your bloodstream and even contribute to blood clots and heart attacks
that's why the last surgeon generals report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a
serious impact on your entire body super blue fluoride free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new
formula it's loaded with good halogen iodine so the bad halogen fluoride super blue contains natural
oils and ingredients use its biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath
just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include silo tall peppermint
oil iodine nano silver and more learn more about info wars life super blue toothpaste
at info wars life dot com and support the info war while you support healthy gums indeed you're
listening to the alex jones show
