There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
Alex Jones, the far-right conspiracy theorist who was a parent.
Jones, Scott, Russian, Scott.
Until war comes to mind.
Reputation's amazing. I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed, I hope.
Ladies and gentlemen, the new counterculture is renaissance.
The renaissance that started more than 500 years ago with the Gutenberg press in Europe is now back.
You know, they had Jordan Klepper and the opposition, I'm told. I talked to Paul Watson this morning.
Attack Paul for saying that conservatism is the new counterculture. And they said that's ridiculous.
The Republicans control the House, the Senate, the executive and the judicial.
But they don't control any of Hollywood, any of the mainstream media.
They don't control the colleges that almost to a college are globalist and socialist and anti-human, anti-family, anti-Christian.
They don't control a single of the giant tech companies.
Media and money and power on this planet is globalist, is authoritarian, masquerading as leftist and neoliberal.
That is an incontrovertible fact.
Here's an example, Newsweek. Why hasn't Melania Trump been on the cover of any magazines since becoming first lady they asked last week?
It's because she hasn't been approached, because she's seen as a polarizing figure.
As if Michael Obama wasn't a polarizing figure. I'm just joking.
So, there you go, ladies and gentlemen.
She makes Trump look good. She's got incredible positive numbers in national polls.
They don't want Trump to look good, so they don't show you as wife. They can't stand it.
That's just a little microcosm of all of it and how they know they're the establishment and how people are running from them.
Kanye West.
I don't really like the Kardashians and all that stuff, so I just said I didn't like him years ago, because I didn't follow him.
Now that I've actually followed him the last few years and what he does with Trump and how he's standing up for different journalists and activists and braces,
black Trump supporter that we've had in the broadcast many times, and I'm going to try to get on today if we can.
And they've been demonizing him for doing that now.
And he's got some powerful quotes that we're living in a police state in this country.
That we're living in basically a mind control system. In fact, I actually screen-shotted today when I was reading it.
One of his quotes, let me pull this up because I wanted to start the broadcast with this here.
Here's the quote.
Racism is a dated concept. It's not an actual thing that means anything. It's a chain used in the past to hold people back.
That is a thousand percent on target. Doesn't mean there aren't people that operate according to that system, but it's being pushed by the left, by the globalists.
They're rebooting it all and creating a total victimology culture.
And the Me Too movement is about women learning about this valued thing they've got that they're in a victim class,
that they can learn how to have giant chips on their shoulders and learn how to not get a good job or be in management
because they have fundamental problems that have been injected in their minds.
That's what the WikiLeaks say all of this is about.
So yes, info wars is the avant-garde. Libertarian Renaissance is the avant-garde.
We are the future, not the old state Republican Party.
But the whole revolution to take the government back is happening within the Republican Party. We'll take the left back soon as well.
We are the counterculture. We are victory. Evidence by our success and the fact we're under total attack.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Info wars life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's Alex Jones.
You know a man by his enemies and we have amongst the worst people in the world as our enemies and I wear it as an extreme badge of honor.
You know there's the victim culture out there and the conservatives have it to a certain extent, the liberals, that is their religion, that is their whole ether in which they swim.
The meat tube movement, the whole everybody's that's white is a racist movement pushed by the corporate media.
But then you see the self-help groups and the positivity movements out there in fitness and in life coaching.
And it's so positive and so about yourself and so about blinders on to not face the negative going on that it allows the negative to grow all around you.
So there's a real balance in all of this but the true positivity is taking on the bad guys and defending the innocent.
But that means also being willing to be criticized, being willing to be attacked.
You see I'm a trailblazer. I'm not here to personally only get ahead monetarily for myself because if I have that worldview like all the other sociopaths or sellouts then there'll be no civilization for me to even spend the money in or a future for my children.
It doesn't mean I don't like money or don't like nice things or don't like having been able to travel or be able to take care of my children but it's not my God and I'm not for sale.
But so many people are afraid of upsetting anybody and so they live in these isolated little bubbles and then the corporate media can say,
well say you don't like mothers and fathers and say you won't use the word he or she, use G or Z and say you think the atomic family is bad and say you think Christianity is bad and say you think heterosexual lifestyles are bad.
And people go okay I will because you want to then conform to whatever the norm is that media puts out.
Thinking about this just this morning, Candace Owens, super smart, super talented lady, a human being, I hate to say a black lady or a white lady, who cares,
who's been on this broadcast several times, who Paul Watson pointed my attention out to like six, eight months ago.
And I remember we flew her to Austin to talk to her and get her in studio and I even talked about as soon as we got the budget done and got the studios built trying to hire her and she was very interested.
And I remember getting flooded with emails and texts and calls saying you shouldn't have her on from the liberals but also from the alt-right.
And I remember some of the crews said well do you have any concerns about her.
I said no that's all a whisper campaign to keep us from having her on the show.
Six months later I think she's been on a few of the shows but hasn't been back on just because time flies by.
I told Daria, I said call and get her on right now, she's at the center of attention with this Kanye West thing and I said I want her on routinely.
And I said why haven't we got her on, just time flew by, we didn't.
And it kind of wait for me as the head producer to say when I want somebody on.
No, I want people like her on routinely because the system's so scared of her.
Whoever's getting the heat is who I want on.
See, Kanye West knows that.
He knows the left's trying to shackle people with chips on their shoulders and inferiority complexes or racism.
Paradoxes when he goes and sees half his fans being young white women and men.
And he knows that's not true in the mainstay.
And so he's talking about how they're shackling people, how they're enslaving people, how they're controlling people.
He said I love the way Candace Owen thinks.
So now they're ganging up on him.
You see, he's the only superstar, one of the top three people grossing who will actually say they're a libertarian or a conservative or a nationalist.
You don't even hear that from a George straight who I know is a big patriot.
You don't hear it from a Kurt Russell because they attacked him when he spoke out super eloquently.
Or even maybe a Clint Eastwood says a few things and then gets attacked but barely sticks his head up.
Kanye comes in bold and says they got black people on the racism plantation.
This is mind control. This is fraud.
They threw him in a mental institution for a week and a half last year saying they thought he went crazy because he supported Trump.
That's America. That's the new Soviet Union.
Look at Taylor Swift, the number one grossing artist in the world.
She just won't get political and attack Trump and has American flags and things in some of her videos.
And so they're attacking and demonizing her, calling her a white supremacist all over the news.
So you see, that's what's going on.
So there's one thing I really recognize and something I support and something I admire and that's courage.
The fact that they threw him in a mental institution, they hospitalized him for almost two weeks because he supported Trump and they said it in the news.
He's lost his mind.
No, he hasn't lost his mind. Look at the economy coming back.
Look at everything happening. He's been friends with Trump for a decade. He knows Trump's a good guy.
He knows it's a sack of bull.
He knows Trump's actually batting for the American people and trying to give everybody a real shot.
And so now what do we have dovetailing with all this?
Alan West, Facebook, Google and Twitter are at war with conservatives online.
It's time to fight back.
Fox News, absolutely.
Kanye West, blast thought police upon info wars.com after he attacked for endorsing conservative commentator.
We have freedom of speech, but not freedom of thought.
Meanwhile, we have the video coming up after the break video.
Clinton logs efforts to censor alternative media and says intensify it because she says there's a war on truth and she's the guardian along with the half billion dollar.
Funded Southern Poverty Law Center and the ADL with its billions that now run Google, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook admittedly saying American flag supporting veterans being a capitalist supporting Trump is white supremacist.
This is the guardian of truth.
This monstrous, bloodthirsty, evil criminal that turned the Middle East with Obama over the most radical forms of Islam to kill over a million people in the Arab Spring and slave hundreds of thousands of women, kill thousands of children.
This evil establishment cracker head who used, and I'm not knocking it, but in her case she uses racism, rebel flags in their gubernatorial runs and wins and who said black people are like animals, super predators that must be brought to heal like a dog.
We ought to play that clip all the time because that's who still runs the Democratic Party.
She still runs it.
That's who we're up against.
We're in Soros, a weirdo, freak Nazi collaborator, and this monster woman whose first job was getting thrown off the committee in Congress for creating fake evidence against Nixon.
Her second job was representing pedophiles, child rapists, brutal child kidnappers, where seven men raped a little, but 10 year old girl till her body came out of her.
And she laughed about it, we got that audio, how she knew they were guilty, but how funny it was to get them off, and she laughed about it.
It's so much fun when a little girl's in a shack for 10 hours with full grown men knocking the bottom out of them.
This is what you're talking about is a savage demon, a pit of hell scum, and she's up there on her hind legs saying, I'm going to piss on the First Amendment and we're going to dominate Darkheart Jones.
We're going to bring Alex Jones down because they think if they can bring down us, they see us as Americana.
By the way, Zach just got grabbed at International Airport in San Francisco by the FBI.
He was about to come on the show.
Can't wait to reveal his real identity on air.
And that's for coming on the show, folks.
Giving you that A.S. stamp.
People have no idea how hardcore this all is.
Here's the deal.
Everybody who's got soul and guts in a heart knows it's time to fight back.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right, now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infowarstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infowarstore.com.
We began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Visit infowarstlife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
They said in October I'd be dead in six months.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host Alex Jones. I don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be to say things like that.
We came, we saw, we died.
The intervention led by NATO to Topol Gaddafi has led to a failed state.
Maybe Libya was not perfect under Gaddafi, but it had, even if to some extent, a functioning government.
One unified country, it was a sovereign state.
Libya now has two rival governments, a civil war that has left over 4,000 people dead and its cities are in ruin.
I don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be.
Women are treated, discriminated against in all these countries she took money against.
Gays and lesbians are either executed or punished severely. They're mistreated. She claims to be their champion.
We let ISIS take this position. It was Hillary Clinton that she should get an award from them as the founder of ISIS.
We had this brilliant idea that we were going to come to Pakistan and create a force of Mujahideen, equip them with stinger missiles and everything else,
to go after the Soviets inside Afghanistan. And we were successful. And this really just is so disgusting.
When Vince Foster left his White House office on that July day in 1993, he told his secretary that he would be back.
But the Deputy White House Counsel and boyhood friend of Bill Clinton never returned.
There has been this urgency to end this. And you know, historically that makes no sense.
We all remember Bobby Kennedy was assassinated in June in California.
Google is being accused of hiding negative stories about Hillary and her campaign by changing its algorithm to marry stories like the Clinton body count story.
That's according to website Infowars. If a Google user types in Clinton body, they get car repair shop results.
Instead of a story that talks about a list of people tied to the Clintons who have died under mysterious circumstances over the last three decades.
Whistleblowers go to significant efforts to get us material and often very significant risks.
We have upcoming leaks in relation to Hillary Clinton. You know, the emails we published show that Hillary Clinton is receiving constant updates about my personal situation.
The latest story was the death of DNC staffer Seth Rich, who was murdered last month in an apparent robbery.
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has hinted that Rich was his source, but as made known from the comments about the case, that murder, we should say, remains unsolved.
He's a 27-year-old that works for the DNC. We shot in the back, murdered just two weeks ago for unknown reasons as he was walking down the street in Washington.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host Alex Jones.
I don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be.
He made an ill of himself. It's true.
We've got the globalist number. We know who they are, what their plans are, and now Trump's got the courage to stand against them.
You have the courage to stand against them. Kanye West has the courage to stand against them.
Candace Owens has the strength to stand against them.
They are the thought police. They are the authoritarians. In Europe, they arrest you if you criticize radical Islam.
They've indicted, again, Marie Le Pen, who is leading in presidential polls over there.
Macron, that's been for open borders and globalism, suddenly has done an about face and is saying he wants to control the borders.
He was under fire from his own party for strict immigration controls passing through their highest chamber.
So a lot is going on. We're on the march. The globalists are on the run.
But Hillary Clinton came out of stories on infowars.com and newswars.com, Clinton lauds efforts to censor alternative media, crooked Hillary winds about living through an all out war on truth, facts and reason.
And then she tries to use us as the example when she was at Penn State, but then didn't, when she did that, ever actually give any of the things that we're lying about.
She is the guardian of the truth, though, and she needs to take your rights. She needs to take your freedom. And then the little specialized folks, they brought into the big tech giants that are going to run your life.
They're just the bosses, and they're going to protect us. And they get trained on the anti free speech universities.
They get trained by the Comedy Central brainwashing brigade. They get trained by the political correctness that laces every major Hollywood production, every mainstream media production.
That then just hammers the most weak minded followers. If you've ever wondered why modern liberals are like drooling, low IQ, stupid, hateful people, it's because they are the dumbest of the dumb.
The successful, the intelligent, the informed, the mavericks, the trailblazers, they know authoritarianism when they see it.
And people know what this broadcast is really all about. They're just trying to demonize me in every platform and every system ahead of not just the lawsuits, the fake lawsuits, the frivolous lawsuits,
but they're trying to get one of their little bots, one of their little minions to physically attack me or kill me.
Just like Milo Yiannopoulos, I want to get back on the show as soon as possible, he got booed out of a bar, people screaming Nazi get out of here, a bunch of leftist.
And then meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, the leader of the whole leftist movement in America and worldwide is George Soros, a real Nazi.
That's how dangerous these mobs of people are, and they think they're going to intimidate us, they're not, they're going to make us work harder. But here's Hillary, we're living through an all out war on truth, facts and reason.
Yes, by the globalists, by the communist Chinese, by the left, by the EU, here it is.
Well, today we have a president who seems to reject the role of a free press in our democracy.
Although obsessed with his own press coverage, he evaluates it based not on whether it provides knowledge or understanding, but solely on whether the daily coverage helps him and hurts his opponents.
He has referred to the media as an enemy of the people.
Not the media, CNN, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Fake News Week that got sold out and is even owned by a worse group now. It's fake news.
There's hundreds of articles a day that totally lie about me and my family that just make up whole cloth BS from anonymous sources.
You are the liars. Trump is not attacking the First Amendment. It was you and Obama that had record numbers of members of the press arrested.
They had a reign of terror against it. You're the one censoring now. You're the ones wanting the fairness doctrine to shut down talk radio. You are a lying war criminal. Continue.
Justed that broadcast licenses of some news networks should be challenged. He wants to block the sale of CNN to AT&T for the same reason.
And he has repeatedly threatened Amazon because Jeff Bezos also owns The Washington Post.
Let's stop right there. We're going to come back with more of this. This is so telling.
Bezos gets $1.50 on every package. It's gone up from $1.48. He gets all these other government freebies and goodies. He owns The Washington Post, a weaponized system.
He got CIA contracts for hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars a year under Obama.
They're waging war on our free speech. You're trying to get rid of our speech.
And Trump is striking back counter punching against authoritarian groups that need to be broken up under antitrust.
Amazon. All of them. Time Warner. Viacom. Google. Twitter. All of them. Facebook. Break them up.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer. Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function. Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America.
And encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste. For you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans, the Super Blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWarslife products. They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
InfoWarslife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today at InfoWarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The right-wing smear machine has gotten Alex Jones-ified this election cycle.
It's a guy named Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
From InfoWars.
From InfoWars.
Yeah.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
One of those guys who believes Bigfoot was responsible for 9-11.
I heard that on Alex Jones so it's true.
It's true. Claims that 9-11 and the Oklahoma City bombings were inside jobs.
The conspiracy du jour, Hillary Clinton is harboring a secret medical condition.
You just had to keep digging, didn't you, Alex?
I heard it on Alex Jones so I know it's Jones.
Why Jones?
Google is being accused of hiding negative stories about Hillary and her campaign,
by changing its algorithm to marry stories like the Clinton's body count stories.
That's according to website InfoWars.
And this really, this is so disgusting.
The juice of these pickles is on you, Alex Jones.
It goes right from Alex Jones and it shows up in Donald Trump's mouth.
Hillary Clinton created ISIS with Obama.
The very fringe of the conspiracy movement, like Alex Jones,
are being kind of incorporated into the campaign.
If Trump gets elected he's going to be Secretary of Defense.
I think that Alex Jones is a lunatic.
Move, bitch! Get out of the way!
Bill Clinton is a rapist at InfoWars.com.
Bill Clinton is a rapist.
The New World Order sends its regards.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
Now you just noticed that that was where clips from about a year ago
of Jimmy Kimmel and people pointing a gun at me and saying,
we got a message to you, Jones.
Next, you know, it's going to be your blood.
He now admits that he gets advice daily from Chuck E. Schumer
and Hillary Clinton and George Soros to this day.
Now it's not joking.
It's now Alex Jones says no kids died and hates children.
Alex Jones is a Nazi.
They've upped the game.
Then it's the lawsuits. Sue Trump.
They're trying to break all of our wills.
And then there's Hillary at Penn State,
where the head of the university has been indicted and arrested
for knowingly covering up what was going on there.
Sandusky's son and many others.
Sandusky was having sex with young children in the field house
in the middle of the day.
That's how rampant pedophilia is at Penn State.
And by the way, I have insider sources and people in businesses
that I know of.
And it gets into the Duponts and, you know, all the things that
he was into.
But let me tell you, they told me the sources, multiple sources.
They said, Alex, it's not just pedophilia.
It's devil worship.
Penn State is heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy,
heavy, devil worship.
All the ties.
The Clinton family has to Penn State, big articles.
Go look it up and put it on screen for TV viewers.
The president indicted for child endangerment and knowing what
was going on.
They were running foundations for children, disadvantaged
children.
And then farming them out.
And that's why Hillary hates me because I know about the
Lolita Express and Epstein and the child kidnapping.
That's all admitted.
Former Penn State president, Ram Spencer, sentenced to jail for
child endangerment and Jerry Sandusky abuse case.
What a hideous, hideous organization.
Just like the Vatican.
You don't get at the top unless you are a child rapist, period.
If you are a child molester, that gets you into the first level.
You've got to do a lot more above that.
Again, just like normal gangs, you've got to go rob a liquor store
to get into really vicious gangs like the Crips.
You've got to kill an innocent person.
You've got to shoot an old lady.
You've got to go in a liquor store and shoot the clerk.
Three former Penn State officials get jail time for failure to
report the child raping.
And what was Hillary's first job as a lawyer, defending child
kidnappers and rapists?
That was her specialty.
They had her in time life books in 1963 saying this woman will be
president someday when she was at a JFK event and they just
featured her in time life.
I've got that original time life.
When she just graduated high school, she just graduated high
school and they had her in time life saying she'll be the president
and then as soon as she gets her law degree, her specialty is
defending child kidnappers.
That's how you get the crew to trust you.
Reportedly, her taste is not children.
It's women.
But you see, you've got to still be in the crew.
And she's in the crew.
She's on the crew.
So it is a distinct honor to stand against these people with
will and to know that I put everything on the line and I
trust in Jesus Christ, my Lord and Savior.
All you other people in media, all you other so-called
conservatives, all you other so-called patriots, you shit back
and you try to play it safe and that's why you couldn't change
the world.
Well, you know what?
I'm no hero.
I know these evil people don't like me because I don't have a
dark heart.
I got a strong red-blooded heart that loves justice and is
willing to put everything I got on the line to stop these
people.
And you can see evil lining up around the block against us.
You can see Hillary at Penn State saying how dare Trump be
mean to Bezos and how the richest man in the world and how
dare Trump be mean to the media that's trying to destroy him
and lying about him and paying people to lie about him and
all this crap when they're these big, giant taxpayer-funded
monopolies.
NBC got what?
$5 billion in stimulus money?
From Bush?
Even more from Obama?
You know what I could do with $5 billion in the media
operation?
You know what you could do?
So the threats just get more intense.
And here's the thing.
I believe in you.
I know you're strong and I know how far we've come.
And I know we're getting a lot of new radio affiliates and a
lot of new TV affiliates and a lot of big networks putting us
on.
Just looking at Hillary and the things she's done.
You're a radio listener, you've got TV screens or on
television and I just look at some of the stuff they put on
screen and it makes me sick to know what monsters these are.
And to see Hillary, this total sociopathic demon from the
beginnings of her life just groveling at the feet of pure
evil.
Her dad was a well-known gangster, operator in Chicago.
A capo.
Her dad was a capo in the Daily Machine.
He ran the vice departments, the compromising departments.
He sent his little daughter in to work for pedophiles right
out of college.
Her specialty.
We're talking brutal child rapist.
And she doesn't want that talked about.
You go look at her Twitter, it's all about women, women.
I love women.
And everything is about we're going to do it for women and
women haven't gotten anywhere.
And oh, they're only trying to shoot me down because I'm a woman.
When we come back, we'll play the Milo clip.
It's called a Nazi and chased out of the deal.
And this Penn State speech she got perched up there at the
main pedophile command base in the U.S.
Anybody that I know has gone to Penn State.
Great business school.
You name it.
Knows about it.
Most of them aren't involved.
You know, Trump went to the business school there.
Wharton.
Why do you think he knows where the bottom of the well is?
Where the rabbit trail goes.
I'm going to stop right there.
If you want to send a message to these scumbags, do it every
day, the videos, the articles in your email, in your private
feeds, hand to hand, handing out cards with them full wars.com.
I'm risking my life, my treasure, my name to do this because I
know there's no future without people being trailblazers and
not being like all these other men that are a bunch of wimps.
That said, X-Tube is a deep earth crystal source of the very
best iodine out there.
It's changed my life.
It's changed many other people's lives.
It's amazing what it does.
It's so powerful.
25% off.
And we did an emergency shipment so that we're able to keep it
for sale for a few more days, but then it's going to sell out
for about a month at least.
And then it's going to be back to a regular price till I find
a source or the price for me to get it doesn't keep going up
with these oil companies that drill it and get it as a
derivative.
So if you want your X-Tube, it's 25% off.
That sale is about to end in fullwarstore.com or
AAA-2533139.
And supermail vitality, cold press concentrated known herbs
for stamina, focus, libido.
It's just incredible, try it for yourself.
50, unprecedented percent off, sign up for auto shipment
additional 10% off.
It's super mail with the real red pill and some other products.
They're 50% off with super mail.
It's free shipping as well.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by
fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the
later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with
high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids,
the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest
fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of
meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use Carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60
plus products, we have an InfoWarsLife.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal
silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver
immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver,
and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people
that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Thank you all for being part of the Second American Revolution.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract,
and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Nobody's better on a steel guitar than Junior Brown.
This is my pro sack right here.
I want to tear somebody's head off, just put on surf rockabilly.
Nothing like cruising to the desert with this on.
100 miles an hour all day long when the kids aren't in the car with you.
Kind of nudged up there at 150.
Why not just go 180?
After all your driving, basically the same car as Mad Max.
But even faster.
Pure Americana.
Love it.
Stop right there.
I never drive like that, I'm just trying to act cool.
I drive a Volvo folks.
Stop right there.
Man, what a time to be alive in history.
What a time to be alive when so much is going on,
when the whole future destiny of our species is being decided.
I have a big frustration that I get caught up covering the minutiae of globalism
and the day-to-day big breaking news instead of the guts of it.
And the guts of globalism aren't about being heartless,
soulless, and about using other people.
And about seeing that as strength to be a sack of garbage.
If you go back two years ago,
so many of the people in the Clinton orbit were being busted for pedophilia,
child trafficking, out of Haiti, into the Caribbean, Epstein's aircraft,
into the Middle East, Bill Clinton,
Anthony Weiner, but that's just sexting people like, of course, Harvey Weinstein on board the aircraft,
Kevin Spacey, all in the same pedophile aircraft.
And it was coming out about the Vatican using child snuffing,
not just raping as ways to blackmail the last pope so the new pope could come in.
The Guardian reported on it.
And so what were they going to do?
What were they going to do when all of the Aleister Crowley stuff came out
and all the devil worship and the WikiLeaks, they just had the media focus in on DC,
focus in on a pizzeria where none of that was going on,
so that they could scapegoat all that and pull us all the way on to what was really going on.
And you learn going through this stuff.
Fighting back against this, when you're in a death battle,
doesn't mean like Godzilla's, you know, fighting the bad guy, he doesn't fall through some buildings.
I mean, there are major casualties of war here.
There are major collateral damage, and I'm not happy about the fact that
when I'm swinging for the fences in these fights and doing our research and attacking the enemy,
sometimes we get roped into their disinfo operations.
But I am exponentially learning.
And that's why I'm trying to train people around me to understand this stuff, you know.
I think in many ways Paul Watson has surpassed my skills in understanding on air,
and I try to get him on air more.
That's why you see him on air.
He didn't want to be on air.
And then they got this ridiculous Daily Beast article where they sent somebody to England
for a year to stalk Watson and knock on doors and all this.
And you read it, it's 90% bull, and it's how me and Watson don't like each other
and how I yell at Watson all day and blah, blah, blah.
And how Watson's paid all this fabulous money.
None of that's true.
Certainly not back when my ex-wife was in the office once a month.
And you just see these followers, these people that lie continually,
quoted by these joke publications like Buzzfeed with the PP gate and all of it.
And the Daily Beast, I mean this is just unrecognizable from reality garbage.
And it's very, very sad, but it doesn't even matter.
No one even believes the lies anymore.
But still, it's a waste of 20 minutes of my time this morning reading it.
And to just sit there and I got up at like 6.30 in the morning,
had a whole bunch of Google notifications of hundreds of articles,
looked at the top one and I was like,
I'm sitting there brushing my teeth, reading it,
and I've got the baby and I'm feeding her some, you know, eggs this morning.
And I'm sitting there and I'm like, I said, I can't read this.
I said, I'm not going to read it. I'm not going to cover it.
But at the same time, if I did cover it, it's like the anatomy of fraud.
And these people know their frauds.
They know they're lying.
I mean, my God, it doesn't, you think I feel persecuted? I don't.
I feel sad for these people like the EEOC stuff.
Complete total fabrication lies. And then I haven't even pulled the Ace of Spades cards on that.
And there's the thing, I was sitting there with the lawyers last week
in a call about the EEOC filing against me.
And I was like, man, I got all these witnesses to this stuff
and we knew something was going on at the end, so we documented it.
But I don't want to bring this out, man.
Like, I have this good side to me that's dominant,
but there's a cruel side to me that goes defend yourself, release it.
And it just shows the total one-dimensional desperation
of what the culture has created and how desperate people are
and how they want that 10 minutes of fame from the mainstream media.
10 minutes of fame is like 10 minutes of self-immolation with 93 octane gasoline.
You get 15 minutes when they're praising you like Megan Kelly got attacking Trump.
It destroys you.
The mainstream media is dead. It's hated. It's over.
This is a spiritual thing. You are praised by mainstream.
It is not good.
And it's like pouring gasoline on yourself metaphysically, figuratively,
and lighting it and going, look at me. I'm getting attention.
It's not the attention you want.
But then I just have a rule now. If people attack us wrongly,
we cannot give them any quarter anymore.
So, particularly on that, because it's just going to be such optics
to show what really happened versus what was said
and to show how it was all manufactured.
We have to be brutal at this point.
We have to be brutal.
So, that's the way it is because people have taken my kindness for weakness far too long.
And it's the opposite.
I have no desire to crush little people, even when they're wicked and lying and bad
in my perspective and view.
But I have to because the other gremlins, if I don't swat mosquitoes away
and smash them, then more think they can just horn in and do what they want.
So, I have to realize how the evil is using the weak and the fallen as weapons against us.
And so, I have to then make examples out of the weak and out of the deranged
and out of the very, very sad.
So, I'll do what must be done.
You have my commitment in that area.
I didn't finish up with the Hillary speech.
My God, it's incredible.
And I'm going to open the phones up.
I had some guests, but I canceled them because this is just this too insane.
I got all this big economic news and world news and mobile phones causing brain cancer,
more on that.
And the government declassifying a document where they mind control you with the cell towers.
That's mainstream news.
Popular mechanics.
And I told you that 17 years ago, because I read it in The Baltimore Sun.
They were doing a test article to see how the public would respond.
DARPA admitted it in the article.
And then I thought Nick Begich was too extreme on Art Bell because I didn't believe anything was on Art Bell.
I liked Art Bell.
It was entertaining.
Aliens, ghosts next to, you know, they can worry to overall does a better job of what's fun
and then what's serious.
He demarcates it better.
But you've got rest Art Bell, total talent.
But I thought Nick Begich is a doctor.
His dad was a famous congressman, brother became a senator.
I knew Begich sounded credible, but it just sounded so wild that cell towers have an oscillating frequency
and it's patented to make you sexually aroused or angry or sick.
And then now they just declassify it all last week.
But they admitted it before.
And that's what I mean, like we're fighting with each other over what color we are.
While they're putting up 5G that on record, if you think 4G and 3G gave you cancer, all confirmed.
This is like, you know, this is your brain on drugs.
This is your brain and egg.
This is your brain on drugs, the frying pan.
I want to recreate that.
I mean, that's this is your brain on 5G.
It's confirmed.
I have children.
So do you.
It's like, what's running this? Who's doing it?
It's an evil eugenics force that wants total control.
The globalists are all moving out the middle of nowhere.
There's no Wi-Fi because they know they're cooking us.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones,
which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products,
we have it in Full Ours Life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preclinone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
You know, Candace Owens is a super good looking, super smart, on target lady, and it's like
four months went by.
She hadn't been back on the show.
She should have gotten her on.
She's under all this attack for just saying black people are on a globalist plantation,
so are women.
It's just a way to victimize them and politically control them.
And now Tom Arnold has come out and called Candace Owens to suck racist, you know what?
So you can say something sexist to a woman, very brutal.
And it's okay as long as she's a conservative.
I know Tom Arnold talks about how he wants to kick my butt and stuff like that.
What a bobblehead, shell out, narcissist demon.
He's who you don't want to be.
Candace Owens is who you want to be.
Tom Arnold, what a joke.
And, you know, I didn't get to this Hillary thing, but just remember coming.
He told Congress that he reopened the investigation to Hillary's servers because he thought it
was the lesser of two evils.
And then he closed it a few days later.
It was all because they wanted to be able to say they'd reviewed it because Eric Prince
and others actually, Doug Hagman, revealed it a day before Prince.
And I might keep it scorched as a fact, that's why they hate us, that Eric Prince said that
his sources said that they had a copy of the hard drive.
That's why they finally then had to go after him and indict Weiner.
So that's all the stuff that's going on.
And you got Hillary at Penn State, the pedophile command base, sitting up there talking about
how, oh, Trump's mean to the media and Trump's mean, and he said, no, they're attacking him.
They're calling for shutting down conservatives, libertarians, speech everywhere.
Hillary is calling for it in the speech.
Meanwhile, comic legend Mel Brooks denounces political correctness.
I think it's only a sliver that really loved political correctness.
Everybody else likes the truth, which is different.
Mel Brooks gets it, but see, that's the tyranny.
Meanwhile, Hillary wants your free speech.
It's all on, ladies and gentlemen, and Kanye West has gone public saying, we need to come out of the plantation.
We need to understand that we need to have thought rights.
We got free speech, just not thought rights.
What's the exact quote?
I've got one of them here.
It's up on infowars.com.
But let's go out to break with some of Hillary.
Here it is.
And he has repeatedly threatened Amazon because Jeff Bezos also owns the Washington Post,
a newspaper defying the odds and showing what many thought was a dying business model can be a success.
For anyone who thinks our country isn't vulnerable to propaganda or attempts to suppress free expression,
you only have to look at the 2016 election.
So stop again, where Google and Twitter and Facebook all on record, the WikiLeaks show,
gamed everything for you, rigged the debates, gave you all the questions beforehand.
Fake polls, fake town halls with actors.
That's all admitted.
And you want to change the subject.
And she has behind her.
Put the video up again, please.
If you're a TV viewer, I want to show people this.
The Penn State says the freedom to write.
It's the EU.
It's the globalist.
There's no end that's trying to take the individual's right to write and to speak and to assemble.
But she sits up there, this authoritarian witch, arrogantly in front of all these people.
Ms. Clinton gave the Arthur Miller Freedom to Write lecture at Penn America's World Voice Festival in New York City.
What a joke, ladies and gentlemen.
Truly sickening.
We'll be right back, ladies and gentlemen.
M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com, PrisonPlanet.tv.
Those are the sites they hate.
Those are the sites they dread.
The live feeds, the podcasts, the videos, all of it is kryptonite to these demons.
All of it is sunlight to vampires.
That's why the Last Surgeon General's report on oral health warns that your oral health can have a serious impact on your entire body.
Super blue fluoride-free toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula.
It's loaded with good halogen iodine, said the bad halogen fluoride.
Super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used since biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath.
Just some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include xylitol, peppermint oil, iodine, nano silver and more.
Learn more about M4Wars Life Super Blue toothpaste at M4WarsLife.com and support the M4Wars while you support healthy gums and teeth.
M4Wars Life Super Blue toothpaste is a groundbreaking new formula.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
So Kanye West has come under fire, blasting thought police after he's attacked for endorsing conservative commentator.
We have freedom of speech, but not freedom of thought.
Alan West, Facebook, Google and Twitter are at war with conservatives online.
It's time to fight back. I'm going to get into that article.
Kanye West's embrace of black Trump supporter not well received.
San Francisco Chronicle. Oh, by the leftist.
All about, oh, you're not popular. You're not cool.
Kanye West tweets admired controversial YouTuber Candace Owens.
Sparks angry backlash and accusations that he is a black Donald Trump.
How dare him talk about this woman that feminist groups contacted and tried to bully and then had groups harass her posing as conservatives.
So they could try to take control of her media organization.
How dare him stand up for her.
Meanwhile, I was getting into Hillary Clinton.
We're going to get back into that, but Tom Arnold has come out in a monstrous attack on Candace Owens and said, you need to suck racist, you know what?
So you can make a sexually violent, you know, aggressive thing towards a woman, but only if you're a leftist, they can do whatever comment they want.
They can say whatever they want. They can do whatever they want.
It's okay. One correction here I need to make that I just noticed.
I was watching this Hillary video this morning on info wars.com. Steve Watts, an article about it.
And it had like what looked like Independence Hall when they showed the side shot.
You can find that on the video for TV viewers.
There's a shot where it's a side shot on the video.
I know I watched this morning, you know, not the frontal shot in the video. It's a side shot.
It's like Independence Hall. It's like Independence Hall and it says pin and all that. And I knew that she was a big buddy with Penn State and speaks there a lot.
So I said, look at her speaking at Penn State, you know, where they had all the big problems and the compromise and the president arrested for covering up the pedophilia and Sandusky and all of it.
And then I realized, I said, let me look into that where she was speaking.
It's pin America, not associated with that.
Pin America, a journal for writers and readers is an annual literary journal that features fiction, poetry, conversation, criticism, memoir, so no affiliation with Penn State.
But I noticed, I'm just saying this, they've got a lady there in a group that's about the freedom to write and free speech was laudable by Penn America.
So you're good for them. And their slogan, which was really blowing me away.
I thought, does Penn State have that logo? I thought it's something else. I thought it was like a part of Penn State.
So, you know, the point is here she is anti free speech saying get rid of free speech in the name of protecting free speech in her speech.
It's just unbelievable. So back her speech up to the beginning because I want to play this in context.
This is really, really out of control, ladies and gentlemen, that everything she says is exactly what they're actually doing.
And then these big monopolies that get taxpayer money like Amazon, Google, Twitter, Facebook, that are caught doing all these horrible things, working with the Democrats.
She wants a total ban on conservatives, libertarians, you name it, Europe's already doing it.
And then she spins that and speaks at a pro free speech group.
It's just incredible.
So my conflating those two things, I apologize to Penn America for getting that wrong.
But I do want to ask Penn America, are you going to say something about her being so anti free speech saying this?
Let's go ahead and roll that video of her speaking.
For anyone who thinks our country isn't vulnerable to propaganda or attempts to suppress free expression, you only have to look at the 2016 election.
Stop it. Stop it. Stop it.
I get we missed this in the fog of battle.
Back the tape up to the beginning.
So we got it backed up.
Okay, here it is.
Well, today we have a president who seems to reject the role of a free press in our democracy.
Although obsessed with his own press coverage, he evaluates it based not on whether it provides knowledge or understanding, but solely on whether the daily coverage helps him and hurts his opponents.
He has referred to the media as an enemy of the people.
He has suggested that broadcast licenses of some news networks should be challenged.
He wants to block the sale of CNN to AT&T for the same reason.
And he has repeatedly threatened Amazon because Jeff Bezos also owns the Washington Post, a newspaper defying the odds and showing what many thought was a dying business model can be a success.
For anyone who thinks our country isn't vulnerable to propaganda.
You know, let's stop again right there. Hold on.
Bezos is showing us that newspapers can be profitable again when the New York Times and all of these groups are running at a loss.
They made a little bit of money during the election. They were totally imploding going bankrupt. They made a little bit of money during the election. They're all in free fall again.
That's another lie. Everything she does is to prop up the establishment.
Bezos is putting hundreds of millions a year into that organization and making staff cuts and taking their benefits because she's a good liberal and they love abuse.
And then she says there are lies about that. Continue.
Hillary isn't vulnerable to propaganda or attempts to suppress free expression. You only have to look at the 2016 election, which was a case study in the weaponization of false information and outright lies against our democracy.
Hillary, what you always do is take things out of context or we do devil's advocate or we correct something, then you spin it. You're a known liar who had weaponized media against the American people.
The same Google, Twitter, Facebook that the Arab Spring was influenced with in your own words.
So again, let's continue. This is Hillary's speech from yesterday. Here it is.
I know that Russian agents used Facebook, Twitter, Google, YouTube, even Pinterest. I still am trying to figure that one out. But they use these very well trafficked sites to place targeted attack ads and negative stories.
Intended not only to hurt me, but more importantly and lastingly to fan the flames of division within our society.
I'll stop again. I want to take this speech and then take the WikiLeaks and emails to her and email she's sending about how do we create division?
I hate my supporters. They're dumb people in baristas. How do we fan the flames of cultural war? That's what the left does.
It's come out in document after document. Soros documents came out a few months ago where they wanted to cause martial law in Maryland in 2015 to keep Obama in office and try to cause race war.
Again, I can't listen anymore, but that's enough of her.
When we come back, Zach is a great military intelligence source who's now in another area of the government slash private industry.
He's been on TV. He's been on the radio before he's been in print. His name is Zach. The government knows who he has been picked up by the FBI twice, threatening him that he better not tell any secrets on air.
When all he's doing is giving you views as a citizen who understands this stuff, he got picked up again and he is a brave person today in the San Francisco airport.
We've not had contact with him in over 30 minutes and I've got all of his text messages here relayed via the producer to my phone and I'm going to go over what happened to him on the other side.
He was going to be joining us. I had some other guests I canceled. He was going to be joining us in the third hour today. He was on yesterday and laid out plans by the globalist to launch false flags in this country to blame Trump and to try to destabilize everything.
False flags aimed at the left. And obviously that's the next move. And then I have other sources basically saying the same things including high level CIA.
And so continually it's the FBI in certain leftist offices like San Francisco, you notice, that just made their move.
And of course now Al Qaeda and ISIS that have been supported by CNN and others in the Arab Spring, they now have videos and propaganda out that they're going to attack the fellow reserve, the CNN, the UN, to make it look like when those attacks come that those are good organizations.
So look, ISIS attacked them. So that's what's going on. It's all coming up straight ahead. We were in a fight, a civil war for the future of this country. Please stay with us.
News Wars.com. News Wars.com.
Ready to eat bacon.com.
886-3653. GoBerkey.com.
That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance, all to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused by cellular damage, resulting from these reactive oxygen species.
The antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on the market. The stronger the antioxidant, the better its ability to scavenge for these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals.
Boost, protect and adapt with cell force from InfoWarsLife. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Alright, we were going to have Zach on, who is a great intelligence source and worked in many different areas of the government, not to give us anything secret, but to give his research intelligent view on what's happening politically in the country.
Now, yesterday he got into false flags being planned against the leftist organizations here in the country to make them even more victims in everybody's eyes so they can run around and call for conservative and libertarian and pro-Trump media to be banned because they're poor, dear, sweet little victims.
Well, this came in at 10.45 and then I just go through the text messages until he went silent about 45 minutes ago at the San Francisco International Airport where he was preparing to fly out to Dubai on one of his missions.
And he's declared national security, the FBI, the police are there, they're trying to get his hard drives. As of the times, they apparently took his cell phone, he went dark.
He's been picked up twice before and taken into the military base. Well, once he was picked up, taken to the FBI, another time in Descentcom.
And then they just go over his hard drives, everything to make sure he, quote, doesn't have anything classified. They're trying to threaten him to quit, quit speaking, even though his job is something that he's allowed to have those things, but has nothing to do with what he's saying on air.
He got visited last week in Palo Alto to look at what he was doing by the FBI, even though it's within his job and he's supported by the group he's with.
I am currently being detained at San Francisco International Airport by the Department of Homeland Security and two FBI agents.
They are claiming an issue with external hard drives in one of my security team carry-on bags. Legal team en route from San Jose, war of words between everyone here, we won't unlock the hard drives.
Demanding a warrant intimidation at its finest, this was planned.
I am en route to Dubai and have had flight scheduled for over a week. Not the first time they've used TSA like this with me.
All is on the up and up and I'll be good. I intend to eat breakfast and do an interview as scheduled once the terminal.
I will keep you updated as this unfolds. We obviously razzled them on yesterday's show.
We will keep you updated. Attorneys arriving very shortly. Doing all we can to make the flight. We'll get booked. Big meetings.
Can't say the rest. And then it goes on. I know what it says on there. Thanks.
Attorneys and local law enforcement going at it right now. This is complete BS. FBI has no integrity. They know exactly who I am.
Plaming national security is ridiculous. Still fairly intense. I am silent to all questions asked. Hopefully it works out.
Plaming my security guy was aggressive towards an agent because he would not allow them to take our hard drives.
Law enforcement officer just told me to stay cool. We will get you out of here and thanks for your service.
Knows me possibly. We'll keep you updated.
Thanks. I know what it says. I'm not going to read that on there.
Anyways, so that's what's going on in this country to intimidate free speech.
Meanwhile, Hillary's at a free speech group talking about how we need to shut down free speech in the country.
Simply mind blowing that this type of stuff goes on. And it gives me a headache to sit there and see it all unfold this way.
But it's a fight. It's a war. It's on.
Now, we have not heard back from Zach, so we don't really know what happened to him.
But I think it's time for Zach to come on air and he's one of many, many sources I have. He's been a really good source.
I noticed that all these so-called mainstream media outlets the day after the Vegas attack said,
Jones just claimed on his phone that some random tip told him that the Vegas shooter was connected to gun running and the Middle East and all the rest of this.
I was told face to face in the morning.
What was going on, but was told to hold off till our source, face to face, who's worked for the CIA, you name it,
got to go ahead. I then got texted the green light with what had been relayed to him to read it on air.
I didn't read all of it on air because I thought some of it was not good to read on air.
The media just goes, oh, Jones claims the source just randomly texting. No, it wasn't a source just randomly texting me.
It was somebody who at 6.30 in the morning had been in my kitchen eating breakfast with me on the phone with the FBI hostage rescue team.
You think they're a little pissed off that we have those sources? Yeah.
They said, hold off at 8 in the morning after I was brief on what was going on.
You'll be given what you can say if you choose to go with it when we text you.
Boom. Get the text. I read it and the media spends it like I'm just sitting there making all of this up.
That's what they do because they make stuff up all day. They have fake sources. They have all this fake garbage.
What came out later? Saudi Arabian big event was happening there with the military.
A conference. He was connected to gunrunning. They came in. He thought it was a gunrunning operation.
He killed him, set him up, shot everything up. Civil war as a message to Trump, as a message to where he makes money, hotels, entertainment, casinos.
He was a leftist hotel. The very floor was owned by the crown prince who now is turned against the globalist reportedly on the surface.
And I already had all that intel. And Zach had the same intel and more. And Zach is somebody that's willing to go on air.
Because one faction has told him, you do it, we'll back you. The other faction is really going after him. This is big boy stuff.
This is the real world. And he's bucking and sort of other sources that sessions is good. Sessions is compromise, ladies and gentlemen.
And QAnon keeps saying, oh no, you know, it's going to be good. Well, QAnon is not the end all be all. That's just another group of people that are, we think, patriots.
You know, Carl Rove was on Fox this morning going, Trump doesn't have any Russian collusion.
He needs to leave Mueller and Rosacy and everybody there. Stop acting guilty. You know, blah, blah, blah.
We need to find out how the Russians control the election, though. That's another hoax he pushes.
And no discussion from Carl Rove in two segments on Fox while I was on the elliptical this morning.
No discussion from Carl Rove about Hillary and the WikiLeaks and the crimes and the Russians and Uranium One and the globalists and the Chinese communists and the infiltration and the secret servers.
Never any of that. Just Trump better leave Mueller alone. He's a Boy Scout. No, Mueller and Comey aren't Boy Scouts. They're globalists. They're scumbags.
They're out of control. They're covering up for the Clintons. And so I'm not scared of their ever widening fake investigation.
Now in a stormy Daniels and ratings lawyer, I'm scared of them being out of control and a fifth branch of government that thinks it's God with this evil globalist anti-free speech media trying to stop an American recovery.
The globalists are American haters. They've been recruited because they are. They're our enemies.
And after two years of a witch hunt, nothing's been found, so they're expanding it.
Carl Rove needs to go back to his normal business and getting into the Republican money and making sure it doesn't go to any good use, so he can buy more big houses.
Stick a fork in turd blossom. He was done the day George W. crapped him into a Tolek Bowl.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
We're helping neighbors. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
ThinkTV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful.
ThinkTV.com.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
At infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality, and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're fighting the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Relentlessly attacking the power structure, you're listening to Alex Jones.
Alright, Zach, with his security detail, going to Dubai, very busy fellow, and when his identity comes out, people are going to go, wow, because this guy was in the news ten years ago, and five years ago.
I mean, he's run operations, and he's been a patriot that stands up and speaks out. It's like Tosh Plumling.
Now, when 80 something years old, he's now right at 80, he's retired to South America for his safety. They were trying to kill him.
Tosh Plumling was the main church committee witness, and then he was the main witness on Iran Contra, and then he was friends with El Chapo.
I mean, he's a living legend. Had him on air, listeners, most of them didn't get what was happening.
He exposed the whole Benghazi deal. He blew the whole thing wide open first here, and I can't tell you the things they did to him.
He is now left to South America.
And it's the same thing. Tosh Plumling was friends with Fidel Castro and flew him his first guns in the late 50s.
He was still flying missions in his late 70s, and then three years ago, retired.
All right, we just got ahold of Zach. They just gave him his cell phone back. He will be out of the detention area.
He says in 10 minutes, and will exclusively be on for only a few, but they may already miss their flight to Dubai, so we'll see what happens.
So I've got that information coming in.
You know, if America knew how real this was, we would fix this so quickly, but they put out all this background BS, all this background garbage, and then people don't know what's really real.
And then they'll take real issues we're covering, but then a mistake about how we covered it and make it all about that instead of the whole larger enchilada and play games.
But they fear us because they fear you. They fear free speech, and they believe they can shut in full wars down. They went.
Now here's the deal. I had other guests coming on. I've cleaned the boards off. Zach was going to be on next hour. He can only be on for a few minutes next segment if he gets through.
So we're going to have open phones in the third hour. Then in the fourth hour, Lionel always does a great job. He's going to be on.
Paul Watson is going to come on Friday. Those people are so interested in it. He's so private.
And since they have all these fake news articles out about Paul, he's not going to respond to their lies specifically.
But we're going to talk about the 10 biggest stories he's ever broken and been part of for the first half of an hour.
And in the second half, we're going to talk about Paul Watson and his awakening.
And now he has, let's not exaggerate, 50 million fans.
And now the globalists are obsessed with him if he would really take it to the next level.
And what it's really been like behind the scenes.
Alex Jones protg Paul Watson is about to steal his crackpot crown.
I mean, the articles of manipulation try to cause trouble in my office and the dream of getting Paul to not work with us.
And the idea that Paul wasn't supporting Trump early on, but Jones was, but then Jones threatened him, sources say.
I don't tell people that I hire and I trust what to say.
Jacarie Jackson didn't like Trump. He talked about it all the time. He'd been here four years. He's a classy guy.
He said, I'm going to go do comic books. It's been great.
Viacindios. That's a classy guy.
No one here has been told what to say or what to do.
They just been told, try to get your facts as good as you can. If you make a mistake, retract it immediately.
But you just read this stuff and it's like, Jones paid watching what people were paid in a year, a month.
People are paid $5,000 a year.
Paul was paid nothing the first two years he was here.
Then he was paid a couple thousand a month.
And then up to like, I don't get his private stuff, but I mean, then he hired his brother and I was paying him 10 grand a month for him and his brother in London.
That is, I mean, you know, I mean, and I pay Paul a little bit more now, but my goodness, he deserves more.
I mean, he's a great journalist that works 16 hours a day and you just read this total fiction things and they assault everyone you know, your family, people that work for you.
They tell lies. It's just crazy.
But you know what they're going to do?
I've got Paul this close to opening a London bureau and organizing other talk show host and a bunch of other stuff.
And I think I think them harassing him has got him ready because they're so scared. He spreads his wings.
They write the article like I'm keeping him in a basement and I tell him what to say.
And I'm mad that he's successful.
The opposite Buzzfeed or Daily Beach or wherever the hell this thing.
Daily basis. It's the opposite. I told Paul.
I gave you a raise six years ago to start coming on the show and to start speaking out because I want to.
You're a smart guy and I need you on air.
And that's why I made him go on air.
I want him to get bigger than me.
It's not an Obi-Wan Kenobi Darth Vader analogy.
It's the opposite of that.
And people need to understand that. But that's how the left operates in their whole weird, jealous, whacked out world.
That I keep Paul in a basement.
And that I chew him out constantly.
It's the opposite.
Paul can kill any story on Info Wars or Prison Planet anytime he wants.
Kit Daniels. I trust Kit. He can do that now.
Three people can kill any story anytime in case I'm not paying attention or something we think is wrong.
Kit brought a story to my attention last week that absolutely was bad news and was a rumor.
And I unfortunately had to terminate somebody and I'm going to leave it at that.
But the point is, is that it's the opposite.
I trust Paul more than myself sometimes.
Because I do get wound up, man. It's not an act sometimes when I'm wild eyed.
It's the opposite. Paul is there helping me.
And I help him some too on things. I've taught him a lot and he'll tell you that.
But I don't mean to get off in a digression here.
We're going to open the phones up, talk to Zach.
I'm looking for men better than me.
I'm looking for women better than me.
I'm looking for people to put in the field.
If somebody comes along way better than I am at all the skills I've got, like finding Paul Watson, like finding Owen Schreuer.
No credit in the little stupid articles to that.
Oh, Jones is this knuckle dragging buffoon who can't even tie his own shoelaces.
That's why all these governments listen and intelligence agencies listen and all the rest of it.
My still on air, my oratory repertoire is not one-tenth of my main intellect.
And I'm not bragging just a fact, but I don't enjoy watching the sycophantic manipulations they put out that I know has an effect on some weak minds.
Zach's coming up on the other side of this break.
I need financial support.
You know, the biggest thing you can do against the enemy is get products you absolutely need that make your life better like air filtration, water filtration,
high quality supplements, great patriot apparel, books, videos, you name it,
for the culture wars at infowarstore.com.
Super Mill Vitality 50% off.
You get the real red pill that goes great with it.
50% off when you get them as a combo and free shipping on that little special.
You can read the thousands of five-star reviews at infowarstore.com.
Again, there aren't reviews on new combos because they're only run for a week.
So there's a bunch of new specials that have got to end.
X2, we can extend the sale a little bit because we got an emergency shipment in.
But supplies on that deep earth, pure crystal form of it, all the other stuff makes me sick.
Everybody else too.
I always knew that iodine was critical, but the stuff they had wasn't real atomic iodine.
It was mixed with alcohol.
It binds to it.
It eats holes your stomach.
Not this, folks.
This is the real iodine.
This is the real deal.
It's amazing.
This is the real deal at infowarstore.com. X2, limited supply.
It's been sold out for months and now it's back.
It's Myco ZX plus lower price, more ingredients because we scaled up, signed a year contract
with an even bigger organic manufacturer and producer.
Scalability.
But now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39.
50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredient.
Everybody thinks about probiotics and how great they are for your gut because you have toxins
in the environment, pesticides, herbicides.
But more importantly than bad bacteria, the probiotics help displace.
Yeast mold creates slime walls.
And once the candida and the yeast and the mold and all that get in there, it causes all sorts
of syrups.
Well, this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to destroy that
slime wall.
Don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's too late.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX plus now from the M4 Wars store.
I'm so excited.
The new product at M4WarsLife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the
brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at M4WarsStore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by M4WarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in FullWarsLife.
They take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preguinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarsstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Welcome back. I'm Alex Jones, your host.
We're going to open the phones up the second hour.
But let me go right to Zach again, who soon will reveal his identity.
I think you should do it sooner rather than later.
He's worked for multiple U.S. government agencies, army special operations and intelligence.
He's been in the newspaper.
He's been on TV before with other operations and things he's done for the country.
But he's been exposing not classified things, but just the understanding of the deep state
and their moves against Trump and their moves against America.
He's been picked up by the FBI, taken to SENTCOM before in Florida.
But now he was flying out of the International Airport in San Francisco a few hours ago,
right before the broadcast started about three hours ago, in route to Dubai.
And they grabbed him.
And I know he can't get too much into his regular day job and the security detail he had
and what they were taking to Dubai.
But this is clear targeting.
So he was going to be joining us today, ladies and gentlemen.
But now he can't do that.
He's got to go.
But go ahead, Zach.
Break down what's happened.
Absolutely.
Obviously the call yesterday and first of all, it's great to be on with you.
Just a real, real crazy morning.
Yeah, like you said, we were, you know, attempting to travel as we're trying to do again here
to Dubai out of San Francisco International there.
And we had got our tickets, made it through, or just about to make it through the security
checkpoint where they take your ID and take it there.
And we were pulled aside and escorted by a couple of members from Homeland Security.
Then we get moved to the detention area there in the airport.
And of course, two FBI agents are there questioning the contents of an individual who I'm traveling
with bag, which happened to be external hard drives that, you know, are completely legal.
They're all our information.
That's our stuff.
If they want them, they have to have a warrant to have that.
They were claiming something else that I can't really get into right now.
But obviously it was a major intimidation tactic.
But let's just say we held onto the hard drives.
We stood up for what was right there, but they're making this very difficult for us.
So my attorney currently does have the hard drives that we were attempting to drive, that
we're attempting to travel with, but all in all, a pretty big intimidation process.
And not the first time I've had issues with TSA, specifically in JFK and, you know, in
Charlotte at all in France, I've had some issues there at the behest of our government,
which is completely ridiculous because the idea that they don't know who I am or what's
going on is a real problem.
But at the end of the day, you know, we're going to continue to prevail.
But obviously we're right over the target yesterday, really got their attention.
You know, just another day in the life of this pretty crazy stuff this morning.
Well, they're explaining to people that the government's not one monolithic system.
And just like Tosh Plumlee was able to give the exclusives on Benghazi one week after
it happened because he was still flying missions.
He'd been a whistleblower in Iran, Contra, a whistleblower in the church committees.
People say, well, how's he still in the CIA?
If he exposed it, he was exposing criminal activities.
Now he's had to leave to South America for his safety.
So this is just incredible what's ended up happening.
I can't get into where he is specifically, obviously, but he's now done.
And made his final sacrifice, basically, before he had to just hide in the jungle to tell that.
So to explain to people how this works.
It's crazy.
I mean, it's stratified compartmentalization.
There's levels within sections.
And of course, at some levels, there's perpetual chain commands that are all flawed.
But there are patriots.
There are people who want to do the right thing here.
And certain agencies are dug in more than others, obviously.
But there's a lot coming out this week.
And some of the stuff we hit about yesterday, the stuff that Devin Nunes is getting into,
with the Five Eyes intel that's coming out on how Brennan really has been spying on Trump illegally.
The information is actually out there now.
And it's really going to start breaking this week.
Under Brennan's leadership, the CIA was conducting complete illegal surveillance,
like in defiance to the Five Eyes agreement, where the five countries,
the US, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the UK, should be disclosing publicly what they're doing.
Not picking up information on citizens from outside of those countries,
and secretly using it as pretext to get Five Eyes awards and do all this other crap,
not to mention the information coming out with the Iran deal and the $1.7 billion in cash
and the real legal issue there that's going to come up and make that deal null and void.
So we have a lot of information that's breaking.
And obviously, we've got their attention out of it yesterday.
And they make my life pretty difficult right now.
But we have to continue to fight because there's nothing else to do here.
We must continue to fight. That's just all there is to it.
There's no going back now. There's no tiptoeing. Everything's about to happen.
We're in it right now.
And you see, and I'm not whining. I just want listeners to get this.
This is not a Netflix action-adventure movie where they're coming after me.
They're coming after you. They're coming after Trump.
This is the real world. We're in a battle right now.
And I didn't report this a month ago.
I didn't tell you this because you're under such scrutiny and the rest of it.
We don't talk on the phone. You talk through the producers.
I checked you out with some folks. They say you're a good guy.
Then I looked you up. And of course you were public.
You didn't even tell me that.
You just called in the show like a year ago.
And I knew your info kept lining up with stuff that I already knew
or that I learned later from really high-level people.
I got a call and then I got a visit.
There's a lot of folks here in the Austin community.
I'll just leave it at that.
You know, leaders, former leaders of major groups.
We all know that means you're never a former leader, one of those groups.
And they were telling me what one of the directors wanted me to know.
One of the sub-directors of the CIA.
And I'm being told, these guys don't tell you anything unless it's been authorized.
And I'm like, why are you being told?
I trust these guys, but why are you telling me this?
And they go, you can go with it.
And I didn't. About two weeks later, they go, why didn't you go with that?
And I said, because it's the director of, you know,
I'm not going to say, and I, and I, and then later I got another connection from somebody saying,
hey, the director, you've been given this info.
Why aren't you doing it?
And then I saw ISIS is going to target CNN, the Federal Reserve, the UN.
Then I saw all the preparation and then all the pieces went together.
And then you're on air saying what I've told no one.
And you didn't get that from the same people, did you?
I'm sure some of our circles interconnected.
That's information, but that's coming from a very, very high level source and certain things.
That do not get that information confused.
That is accurate.
Well, then let me ask you, what do you make of them?
I've never had the people pushed up on that.
That's why I didn't do it because it was being pushed on me.
But now you can see it makes sense.
The media is doing pre-programming ahead of it.
False flags against themselves.
Truly, that truly there's more going on in each hour of these,
of these next coming days that have happened in months and years and in recent history.
Because each move is being countered and it's a very elaborate game being played right now.
But like we spoke about, there is very, very serious critical, critical and very credible intel out there
about false flags being planned to be pulled off in this country on said targets
that are obviously self-inflicted and will result in major, major ramifications in retaliation.
Sort of a narrative shift there.
But yeah, we've got to look at that.
I'm in route.
Actually, right now I'm going to have the jet here pretty quick.
We're in route to Dubai.
I'll have to be joining you maybe, I don't know, within about a week or so
and kind of give you an update because I'm saying we'll be breaking.
Keep an eye on this on this Five Eyes Agreement.
What happened with Brennan, the 1.7 billion in cash to the Iranians
and truly, truly, truly looking for compromised jet sessions and information possibly to come out.
Who knows?
Don't forget about the Christian tapes either.
Well, you've been saying the whole Iran thing last week on the show and now that's coming out.
I mean, what's the word on, because obviously there's the pallets of money,
all the illegal activity with Iran, backdoor deals.
Are you saying a lot of that's about to come out?
All of it's about to come out, predicated on the Syrian attack.
That Syrian attack pushed everything to the forefront because things will be revealed.
It's going to happen this week.
Things are going to be revealed and it's going to change.
So is Trump fighting back or does it show he's still sliding
or was there some more sophisticated thing now that you know more?
Honestly, I think he's kind of caught between a rock and a hard place there.
This deal that was made with the Saudis is very problematic,
but maybe he thinks he could cross it at some level.
But some of the information I thought there was pretty damning
and we just really have to back Trump and really get through it
and say stick to the plan and do not appease these warhawks.
Do not impease the military industrial complex because they will come for your neck
and there's just no question about it. They're coming for you.
And if you're damned, if you do, you're damned.
If you don't, if you're in his situation.
But he knew this when he was getting ready to run,
when he was approached by military to become the next commander-in-chief.
And you know, this isn't a reality show anymore.
This is a fight for his life and a fight for the republic.
And all of our futures, but that's the problem.
It's a bad plan to let the Saudis take over Syria.
And then it's a bad plan to let Iran run around doing what they're doing.
It's all bad plans. What do you think we should do?
Honestly, what we should do is actually start the tribunals,
get right to it, really uncover, start with the pretext of fast and furious.
That's right, because there are deep networks in the government
that aren't going to ever let us have peace. Sorry, go ahead.
Absolutely. Start with fast and furious at the pretext.
Really get into what's been going on during that past administration.
Start prosecuting.
And at that point during discovery, a lot of things will start to happen.
And start to open based on the narrative switching and things happening.
Listen, and we said it yesterday,
Qumab being committed to treating this country.
Hillary Rodham Clinton committed to treating this country.
Barack Hussein, Hussein, Hussein Obama has committed to treating in this country.
It is our duty, it is our obligation to call them out to turn this momentum
in a different direction because we will not have another chance here.
The next president that holds that position will not be Donald Trump.
It will be a whitewashed Republican or it will be somebody from the left
and we're not going to have the chance we have now. We've got to seize the moment.
Oh, they're scared and they're intending to show it up.
Zach, you're absolutely right. I know you've got to go.
As soon as you get to Dubai, let's get you on the broadcast.
You're in postman spot on. Thank you so much, Zach.
Absolutely, we'll do. Have a good one.
Alright, there you go, Zach. Pray for him.
We're going to come back and open the phones up on any subject you want to cover
and I got a ton of news I haven't had and a bunch of video clips,
third hour straight ahead. Have you spread the links? Have you told folks about the show?
Let's go to Devin in Florida. Devin in Florida, you're on the air.
Great. Hey, thank you so much. Listen, I have bought your product
and I got to say they're amazing.
Everyone who's on the fence, buy it because I've got caveman, superman of vitality,
secret swell, vitamin mineral fusion. I've got the body armor.
Wow, thank you. You're the top of the list that makes it all possible.
Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion, to be honest. That's really incredible.
I drank it in the morning and I swear to you, I felt incredible.
I haven't felt it for weeks. My morning was fantastic
and I love these guys. I love the InfoWars through and I just want to, yeah,
I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody out there who's on the fence,
just buy it. We'll love it. I'm telling you, I've never bought a bad product.
What you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at InfoWarsLife.com.
It's a win-win, InfoWarsLife.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients,
such as Valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Welcome to the Alex Jones Show.
Alright folks, I'm going to give the number out.
For first-time callers about the state of the world, about how they're trying to bring Trump down.
You know, I blew up at Trump about eight, nine days ago, not last Friday, but Friday before last,
because I've been real emotional about war with Russia and the whole thing in Syria
knowing that if Trump did that, we'd be on the wrong side of history.
And then I thought that he backed off and the Secretary of Defense said,
no, there's no evidence that they did the chemical attack.
And so I went home pretty happy at like 7 o'clock, 6.30, got home, had dinner with the kids,
swam in the pool. We were going to sit down and watch an old movie or something.
They'd never seen Old Yeller. We were actually queuing Old Yeller up at like 8.30 at night.
And I don't usually let them stay up past 10, but I wasn't going to let them do that.
And I mean, my son's older. He didn't want to watch Old Yeller but my daughter's.
And my daughters are sitting there in my lap and everything.
And I go in the bathroom and pull up my phone while my wife's making brownies and getting ice cream ready.
And while I'm sitting there taking a piss, looking at the phone, I see Trump striking Sharia.
And I just eating a bunch of food and I was tired.
And I'm like, oh my, and so there's the emotion of, you know, and then Rex wanted to go to my dad's house.
He goes, I just want to stay with my grandparents tonight. Can I go with you?
Because they live by the studio like a half mile.
So I, you know, I drive over there and I just get in here and then the crew does a great job.
And I don't just say a great job. They do an amazing job.
And Rob do runs up here and everything from his family and he teaches basketball and other sports and he runs up here.
And he's got three cameras because I wanted to go live on those cameras before I went live.
And then in here, I'm just telling you what happened.
And I say, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we're going to go live in here.
And then we're going to go live in there.
And I was mumbling, you know, you're tired, whatever.
All of a sudden he's like thumbs up and I realized I'm on air while I'm venting, which I don't do a lot.
Maybe like every couple of weeks.
They're a little of it today because I forgot to eat breakfast this morning and worked out hard.
And by noon at like a headache was getting grumpy.
I went, oh, I forgot to eat better eat something.
But I'm just explaining the psychology for listeners to understand that we, this isn't an act here on air.
Okay. This is what we're really doing. We really believe in this and I'm in control most of the time,
but the emotion got to me and I was already going, man, I'm sick of Trump.
This is BS. He better not be going sideways. F this, F that.
And I'm saying F, I'm going to say Dumford because I've heard he's, he's somewhat pro war.
And I can't say that because it's all very, very opaque.
But I'm saying F Mattis. Mattis is the one trying to stop it. That's confirmed.
That's what I mean. It was just kind of an incoherent train ride.
And then dues like doing thumbs up, looking at me.
And I'm like, that's live on air.
They did it again Saturday night.
We were up here putting new lights in that don't burn my eyeballs out that that's again do work in seven days a week.
I don't, I don't make him do it. He's so dedicated. He's like, Hey, we got to put new lights in those are really bad.
We got some better ones now that are led, which are so good.
You know, there's lights down a part of the others and we were up here till six or seven, putting the lights in and I get home.
And Sunday morning, there's like a 30 second video where they just had a live feed cameras in here.
Somebody took them down and then they did a live feed.
And I'm not mad about it.
I didn't show anything or something to show. So I'm talking about fixing lights, but then it creates the whole other story is Jones faking this.
You know, he really rant and say, wait a minute, that's live.
That's what made me get even more pissed because I wasn't ready to go live.
And but it's my fault not being clear.
I'm like, yeah, yeah, go live there before here and then go live there, go live.
And then he sees me start ranting.
He thinks, well, he's going live. He thought he messed up.
And then I'm like, I just screwed up.
So then I'm even more mad.
And then that fuels the explosion about Trump, which I'm not walking back.
I was mad, but I didn't.
It's not like I hate Trump now and he's evil and he's bad.
It's just that it hurt my feelings and upset me and I was honest.
And they act like the fact that I'm honest is some weakness.
I think it's a strength.
We'll be back to give the number out cover all the big news. Stay with us.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, InfoWarsLife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide.
I am your host Alex Jones.
We're on the phones up in the shower. 877-789-ALEX-877-789-2539 is the number.
Again, 877-789-2539.
I'll be honest with you.
I really disdain Hollywood.
I disdain pop culture and the worship of it makes me sick.
So I would see Kanye West and the Kardashians and all of that just bombarding me for a decade.
And I didn't like Kanye West.
But then I, years after it was out, watched the Simpsons.
Not the Simpsons.
What's the name of that show?
Teleprompter for ear folks.
What's the name of that show?
South Park, which I occasionally watch online.
South Park Gayfish.
And I thought that is great music.
And they go, no, and my family's like, my kids are like, no dad, that's what he sounds like.
I was like, well, that's actually really good music.
So I heard listening to some Kanye West music.
Then I saw him like Trump.
And I thought that was bold.
I thought about the stunt.
And then now coming out for Candace Owens and then she's being attacked.
Tom Arnold saying, why don't you suck some racist, you know what, totally sexist.
Imagine if a conservative did that, that clown.
Hey, Tom Arnold, how about you suck on my fist, punk?
If I go from memory, Tom Arnold, I don't mean that literally, it's figuratively because I'm scared of Tom Arnold.
He's so tough.
Tom Arnold shot his mouth off against me quite a bit.
But you're just such a thug.
Why don't you quit picking on girls, man?
And a strong black woman.
Because Candace Owens is good looking and she's smart.
She came here, came on the show a few days, went to dinner, her and my wife, really smart lady.
We had the video where we did the Russia joke.
We went to a Russia house, like a Russia themed restaurant as a joke.
Can we queue that video up with my wife, Millie Weaver?
Because what I'm getting in here is this is just crazy.
This woman just says, hey, I'm really a libertarian.
I'm not really conservative, but the left tries to control women, tries to control black people.
That's totally true.
It's in the WikiLeaks.
And now they're saying she can suck such and such.
When the woman is a well-spoken, nice, evil, even-mannered person that this whole evil system is attacking.
I mean, look at this.
Talk about evil.
Actor Tom Arnold tells Candace Owens to suck racist.
You know what?
And he's just such a stupid, dumb, talentless clown.
It's just crazy how they do all of this.
It's crazy how they sit there and they attack people and they get away with it.
And how the left can attack free speech at a free speech platform like Pin America, the Freedom to Right.
And then Hillary calls for a war on free speech there claiming we're trying to take her speech when she's the one with the big tech giants doing it.
So I got to tell you, I admire Kanye West for his courage.
Remember, they locked him up when he came out and said he still supported Trump last year for almost two weeks in a mental ward saying that was crazy?
That's on infowars.com.
That's like the old Soviet Union.
Meanwhile, why does the Google documents show and admit that they want infowars.com shut down?
The number one reason was we exposed the chemical attacks were staged three times.
Not once, not twice, but three times.
And then they say, and Ron Pulse fake news too, he needs to be banned.
And now you see us being delisted, being pushed down.
All the fake news about us being put to the top.
And again, CNN and others have aired this footage.
We're showing for TV viewers of the guy that looks like a fake doctor, blinking, you know, winking, and then falling down.
Oh, it's the worst acting.
I mean, I'm a high school place, junior high place, elementary school plays are better.
I've seen my daughters in better place, way better.
And then the kids, they're laughing behind him.
And they kind of forget to have their legs flopping.
It doesn't mean chemical weapons attacks don't happen.
It means they've caught the rebels.
And now here's the New York Times.
ISIS used chemical weapons at least 52 times in Syria.
And Iraq report says chemical inspection team reaches Doma.
Negates Russia cover up claim.
That's the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons that the U.S. backs.
They said, no, we couldn't get out because the rebels hadn't left yet.
We're still shooting at us.
You know, it's the rebels, ISIS.
And once we got there, they were still shooting at us.
The Russians did not stop us, but Fox News, especially, man, and CNN.
Oh, my gosh, the Russians.
And I'm not backing the Russians, but they didn't do that.
That zero hedge breaks it down with all the links to the organization's own documents.
Germany's largest public TV news broadcaster goes to Syria.
It goes to the hospitals, investigates, says chemical attack most likely staged.
They don't know what to do.
Does that mean every chemical attack is not real?
No, like the 52 killed thousands that the rebels launched at ISIS launch that Saudi Arabia funded.
Those were real.
So the media will go, Jones claims there's no chemical attacks, but look at these.
No, no.
The rebels are doing real ones, but they play this bait and switch.
Jones doesn't care about kids getting killed by chemicals.
Did you hear Jones said nobody died in Syria?
That's how they he doesn't care about Syrian kids.
And I didn't start the war like Hillary.
I didn't send in all the military.
I didn't destabilize it.
I know you're right.
That's how they play these games.
That's all coming up.
It's powerful information.
All right, we're going to go to break, come back with your calls.
I'm going to stop right here and I'm going to ask the listeners if you believe in free speech, if you believe in the truth, if you believe in standing up to Soros and Hillary and these bullies and the DNC that's suing me and Trump and everybody else.
It's total war.
They want to break your will.
You're flyover country.
You're a bitter clear no matter where you live.
If you're a good person.
These are authoritarians that think we're weak that they're going to win.
If you'll just spread the videos, the articles, sign up for the free podcast, send out the videos, post them to your own site, send them out in the email, hand out business cards with them for wars.
It will change the world and pray for us.
We're praying for you.
We're in this together and I thank you for all your help.
They're so mad.
We have a connection.
They're so mad that we're able to speak to you.
They're so mad.
We're here trying to get it right.
Trying to tell the truth.
It's a world different from the globalist and financially we've got supplements that are the best out there.
Take X2.
They tried to take away our really clean deep sea seaweed.
Deep sea far out to ocean clean seaweed derivative of this.
And they took that away.
They hit us with the economic sabotage and they said, we're not going to supply you anymore with the cleanest organic group out there that had a lot weaker iodine.
It wasn't atomic, but it was clean.
It didn't make people feel bad.
Instead of you get the store, I'll kill you.
It's not real iodine.
It's bound with chemicals.
It's an alcohol.
But research iodine deficiency and how sick it makes people and all the problems with it.
And then realize we have the good iodine.
We have the deep earth crystal source that nobody else has gotten in our search for better iodine that is in the palm oil organic infusion that feels great.
Gives you the energy.
Gives you the halogen you need, but doesn't eat holes in your stomach, at least in my case and everybody else's.
They say, wow, I can finally take iodine in full or store.com in fours, life.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
I drink it in water when I forget to take it.
I take it every couple of days when I forget to take it.
I'm like, wow, where's my energy?
Where's that sparkle in my mind?
A libido because I get busy and I know this stuff all works and I use it.
But we know we got 80 something supplements.
I'm taking a lot of them every morning.
But when I do take it, my wife's like, what's what's what's going on here?
She's like, not, not just my libido, but it's like I'm 16 again.
You know, it's a, it's a bigger day.
And, and, and that's the whole thing.
I had on without it, ladies and gentlemen, you die.
I can't tell you how many doctors I've talked to.
They go, no, we're diagnosing scurvy, but the hospitals don't want us to say it.
There are people just with their skin opening up, old wounds opening up, teeth falling out because they're not eating leafy vegetables or they have bad malabsorption in their stomachs.
Well, it's the same thing. This is not rocket science. You need oxygen, you need water, you need iodine, you need vitamin C.
You will die without this stuff.
We don't sell a vitamin C product because that's so readily available.
You can get that, you know, pretty much anywhere.
Glass of orange juice, cabbage, you know, broccoli, whatever.
X2 though, the other iodine as we looked into it are all bound.
You don't absorb, it goes right through you.
Not X2, baby. It's pure atomic iodine.
In FullWartStore.com, it's about to sell out.
Our attorneys know every law, every tax break, and every possible opportunity to help you resolve and reduce your tax debt.
And if you owe more than $20,000, you may be at the top of their hit list.
So don't take your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own.
The IRS can seize your bank accounts, your home, and even shut down your business.
Call our tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818 and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business.
That's 1-800-261-9818. Again, 800-261-9818.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com.
Or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goberkey.com.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at mforestore.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
The reason Mfore's Life has five star ratings on major third-party sites is because I want products I am going to use for my family.
I take this, my family takes this, and then it funds the operation with the most hardcore, truthful information you are going to find anywhere.
So what you find in our news is the same thing you find in our products at mfore'slife.com.
If I ever forget to take them, I have a noticeable difference. I don't feel good.
The nascent iodine is one of the ones that was life-changing for me.
Yeah, I've actually just run out of my superfemale. I had a few bottles at my house and I've been taking it again, hitting the gym once again.
Very exciting, feeling great, looking good, and I know my hair is luxurious once again.
So obviously the superfemale is amazing. I love it.
Nascent iodine is essential. Survival Shield X2. If there's one product that I would say is life-changing that I would suggest it's nascent iodine Survival Shield X2.
It's a five-star rating. It's a win-win at mfore'slife.com.
It bullied a bunch of us into going along with you.
I'd like reserve time.
Now, I'm going to be willing to have a fight.
Twenty-one at this point.
And only the dumbest morons buying to your SJW Globalist, George Soros, dropping.
Stabilize it.
Emergency reserve.
Hillary Clinton in the newer order of Michael Moore.
Go back to where you came from.
We're awake and you're not putting us back in the coma.
You got that, Jack? You're done. It's over.
Get him back. Get him back.
Do you think there was more than one?
For sure. I think you did.
It sounds like it's confirmed there are at least two shooters with fully automatic weapons.
All right. 16 lawsuits have been filed against Info Wars in the last year to shut down our free speech.
Nine of them have been thrown out. Many of them with prejudice, meaning they can't bring them back.
Meaning that it was fraudulent and that we could counter sue them.
I just got a call. I got a text earlier. I called my lawyer during the break.
The one in D.C., one of the top law firms in the country dealing with defamation and free speech.
He's actually coming here Thursday, by the way, to give you guys a briefing.
To give all the crew a briefing on how we're under the microscope and how they're trying to distort things.
He just got noticed they're withdrawing their lawsuit in Georgetown.
They're withdrawing their lawsuit tomorrow morning in Georgetown.
Everything we said in the press conference was true.
It was documented in D.C.
And my lawyers were like, we don't think you should give them the strategy. This is so ridiculous.
But if you want to do this, you just point out they're attacking your speech, that's fine.
But we'll get this dismissed. This filing is unbelievable.
Well, they withdrew, they let them know they're withdrawing the lawsuit tomorrow morning.
Here's the problem. They're going to refile it.
We just know they are.
So that it'll be, oh, sued again by Georgetown.
Why not sue me every day and then withdraw it again?
You see how this works? To get the publicity, to say the white supremacist Jones said this man killed a woman.
Never said it, no video, no nothing.
It's summary judgment out of court.
And the lawyers have just asked me, they said, Jones, just don't say what's wrong with the rest of it.
Which I even, I'm not bragging, but I know the stuff well enough where I read these things and it's like...
Owen Shroyer said this, which he didn't say, and then Kit Daniel said that.
So we're suing Owen Shroyer and then they just put the wrong name in the lawsuit in Travis County.
And my lawyers are just like, stop, don't say it, just leave it alone.
But I just can't sit here while they file all this crap.
And they're not pointing out that it's absolute abject bull, but that's what's even scarier.
Why would they file things in the wrong courts with typos all over them and defame people putting the wrong names in it and stuff?
I mean, it's, if they wanted to scare me, they've scared me in how inept they are.
Because you want to think of your enemies as having their act together.
These are servants of the globalist, servants of Soros.
Who do you think they're going to get?
And that's the thing about us that are strong and those that have will and those of us that love God.
We just continue to beat these people, but not go on the offense.
And we have to go on the offense and smoke them out of their holes, man.
And they're going to call it vindictive. I mean, I already countersued them last week in Virginia.
They withdrew the lawsuit because I mean, we had them like dead to rights, man.
I didn't just believe my law firm. I checked with three others.
They said, we've never seen things this ridiculous because they're not even thinking, look up at Georgetown.
I love folks on the East Coast and all that.
And that Vatican University over there has got its new pond of its new boss,
but they think in Texas that we wipe our asses with corn cobs.
And they think like we're just like married to our sister.
We're like, they them them people and they say they didn't are dinged in dead to us.
And then we like get them. They're like, alert, alert, alert.
But here's the deal. When I counter stood them, we can have a go.
ABC News was there. NBC CBS, no coverage, which is fine.
We all had our own streams.
But I told you, I said, I filed a lawsuit against Georgetown University.
Well, how did they kill that lawsuit?
That lawsuit was pursuant to their suit.
And so now they just pulled the teeth out.
And then who knows what they're going to cook up because we're not stupid.
They're going to refile it. Why not get back on the merry-go-round, put a quarter in,
say you're suing Alex Jones, get all over the news, defame him however you want,
say whatever you want about him, put another quarter in, do it again.
Yeah, mommy, I want to ride in the Ferris wheel again.
Mommy, I want to ride on the big ship again.
I want to ride on the little horsies again on the merry-go-round.
Mommy, mommy, mommy, I want to lie about Alex again.
I want to kick America in the head again because we see him as Americana
and Daddy Soros squat and took a crap on him and he's God.
Mommy, Alex didn't go away when Soros crapped on him.
Soros is a good Nazi. He killed a lot of people.
He's powerful. Why doesn't Alex go away?
Haven't we threatened him? Doesn't he roll over and piss all over himself?
You look, you go to a university now, you go to anywhere left to star.
They look like dead zombies, hunchback, dead-eyed, faces all drooping
because they have no soul. They are empty.
I think people are being born without souls now and you see them
and they're like these zombies everywhere and it's just like
all I want to do is get away from them and the more I fight them, the better I feel.
It's not about monetary. It's not about my life.
They can have a global for the gun to my head saying deny freedom, deny Christ.
Or we're going to blow your head off. I'd say pull your trigger
because I am so fulfilled. I mean, it is just, and that's the frustration
is that people just knew the power of liberty, the power of God.
I don't mean the fake churches or fake preachers trying to act like men,
but they won't criticize anything the globalists are doing.
They won't criticize any other dehumanization operations.
They just sit there in the church and talk about the Lord and how good they are
and how you can be strong and how you can be upright.
It's all a bunch of Pharisees that Christ talked about up there telling you
how high and mighty they are.
And they're frauds. They're the sellouts.
They're the people that signed on to the globalist program to fill the place of the church
so that they could bring down the whole system.
So I'm going to break and go right to your call. Sean Darrell, Ian, Lauren Cameron
and others, Pastor Sam Austin.
Pastor Sam's call before. It's for some callers.
We'll see. Katherine Craig, Jay, Marcus, Carol and others.
So we will take your calls on the other side of this break.
There's just so much more here, but...
I just, I fear failure.
But man, I look at George Soros as kids, and I'm not trying to be mean to George Soros just to be mean.
I mean, the faces they make in every photo, you think, oh, that's just one photo.
No, it's like Brian Stelter looks. It's like trying to act powerful.
But it's not even like, like when I do it, I'm doing a joke, but it still looks crazy and dangerous.
With them, it's like a trying to act powerful and forceful, but it's like fake.
And it's like, you're doing all this to try to be powerful.
You could have innately been powerful.
Let me make one of the faces that Alexander Soros makes. It's more like a...
I mean, it's just like, ugh, ugh, ugh, ugh.
It's just like the faces Hillary makes. It's disgusting.
Today at ReadyToEatBacon.com, ReadyToEatBacon.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I've been using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it,
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself.
And then rest assured, you're finding the info war, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain. It's for sports. It's for activities.
And it's made in the USA. Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
He aligns himself with the truth, and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals.
99.99% ultra-pure, deep-earth iodine crystals.
That is Shooter Jennings with one of his great songs, Summer Rage.
Another word inspired by the info war.
Police State. But that started getting derailed, didn't it?
Hush. Hush.
That's right. Can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
You can't stop.
Your mother's life.
That's right. Can't trust nothing but the love in your mother's eyes.
The globalist claim they're trying to save the Earth with Jane Goodall and Earth's a GSHD Google.
Oh about carbon dioxide and all this.
It's the genetic engineering. It's the toxic waste.
That's the real threat to the planet
It's the nuclear reactors.
But none of that from the left anymore.
All about hating humans and banning plastic and that'll fix it all.
Little sub issues.
calls. But here's an announcement. We filed a week and a half ago in DC, as you
know, a slapback suit on Georgetown University and the individual they got
to file the suit claiming that I said that the person that filed the suit
killed a woman that got killed. No, I said Soros funding Antifa, which is on
record, helped create the climate that got the woman killed. So it's just a
total fraud lawsuit. I've had three different law firms, four different law
firms look at it. One of the top firms in the country. So we filed a
countersuit, zero corporate media, fake news media coverage. They just got a
call and they're putting in the filing either today or tomorrow to withdraw the
lawsuit. Georgetown was right because they filed a piece of fiction. But here's
the legal prediction. They're just going to refile it without all the errors, but
it doesn't matter because the basis of it's an error. And then you'll hear
Georgetown files a new suit and the media, you will witness them watch the
next few days. I'm predicting this when they refile it where we're guessing they
will. They'll just say it's a whole new lawsuit like like it's another one
hitting me and get a whole nother cycle that Jones is losing the Liberty
Movement's losing. Soros and Hillary are winning. The World
Government's winning. Intimidate everybody. That's all they've got because
they're the losers. They're the fraud. They're the globalists. Everybody hates
them said to do all this. You're racist. You're Russian. You bullied me.
You did this to keep it in the news like they're victims. But everyone tunes into
that and knows it's fake news. And we have seen an uptick in support for the
broadcast. I hope it's enough to deal with all this because it's intensifying.
But thank you for your support. Thank you for your prayers. But here's the thing.
When they realize they've got to pay attorney's fees and damages for the
false suit. They stuck their arm in that badger's nest and tried to pull it out
real fast. And you can't polish a turd. So good luck with whatever else you cook
up because I don't think they're going to give up. You don't just think you're
dropping a day. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't think they're going to want to
have the law students, the type of liberals that don't want an actual real
job. They'll be professors for life. I mean, you might not want to have them
write the next one. You know where it's like these ones in Austin. It's like
it's got defamation all that. They'll just randomly put somebody's name in there.
Wasn't even involved in the suit. They just throw it in there like it's
I'll tell you, it's like monkeys at the zoo throwing, throwing, you know what
that's. I mean, it's just like that. And you're like, what is this?
Because the media doesn't care. They want the suit to say we're losing and we're
being destroyed. And then we file suits on them or they withdraw lawsuits. You
won't be in the control press. It's all about deceiving the public. Cameron, Ian,
Sean. Let's talk to Sean in Arizona. It's a grab bag. Whatever topic we want to
discuss. Sean says what he witnessed during Clinton vacations in 96. You're
on the air. Thanks for holding. Well, that's true. But there's a couple other
things here, Alex. And I was on I'm on the ranch here between outbuildings. You
know how it is. And I didn't hear that it was specified the first time
college, but I'm your friend from the Republican Convention and 80 haven't
talked with you in a while. I was based out of Jackson Hole for 26 years, which
you don't know about me. Aside from working the Republican Convention, I've
been working in the movie business for 26 years and I prepared a major lawsuit to
go against an entity in the motion picture business in a western state,
west of Texas and one of the far western states. You may recall I've got
Lyme disease the last five and a half years. I've spent at my computer to the
detriment of my health because I should have been working on my Lyme disease
protocols every day, but freedom is not free. I put together a case 35 booklets
1300 pages, 200 exhibits to correct something that's been going on per the
motion picture business in a western state. Okay, I understand. I got a lot of
callers here. So what we know there's a lot of stuff in Hollywood. What's going
on? No, no, no. So anyways, I sent a letter to your people for a reference on
the constitutional lawyer and organization. It's been very difficult. I just
don't want to hand this case off to to Justin. Here's my problem. I can barely
deal my own stuff and I'm here live on here. I can't conduct, you know, off the
record discussions about stuff here on air sir 96 and what most people don't
know is blitz were there in 95 96 and in 96 they lost a whole plane up there. It
was a C 130 cargo plane. It flew. It was the last plane that left on the last part
of the vacation in 96. It flew into the mountain up there. Nobody talks about it,
but they lost everybody in that plane had the nuclear football on it. They
slammed into Sleeping Indian Mountain. It's another thing of a lot of people
for one reason or another that perished around the Clintons when Clinton
golfed when the boy Bill Clinton golfed in Jackson Hole. He golfed with a
business owner that was one of the biggest loaders in his nose in the whole
Teton County, Wyoming. And after Bill Clinton left, he was his golfing partner
for 96. When that when Clinton left, he threw a bash for the Secret Service and
that at this guy's business. And shortly afterward, this guy had to go down and
check in at a ranch next to Merv Griffin or whatever in Wickenburg where they
did for addiction, for drug addiction. And they flew and this this is this they
flew because people told me that we're on the security deal. They flew in a
girlfriend for Hillary. So we've got to put the pressure on that these people
are our minions of the Antichrist and they need to be defeated and I wish you
the best. God bless you, Sean. I appreciate the call. Okay, let's go to
their caller here. Let's talk to Craig in New Mexico. Craig in New Mexico. Go
ahead. Hi, are you there, Alex? I sure am. Hi, thanks for taking my call. I'm
calling today. I'm a long time Info Wars listener over 10 years now and I'm
also a subscriber to many of your supplemental. Thank you, sir. Appreciate
the support. You're welcome. My pleasure. In 2011, I was diagnosed with multiple
sclerosis after a cascade of debilitating symptoms. After an
ineffective steroid regimen and also being asked to become a guinea pig for
the sparmaceutical companies and taking new untested MS drugs, I opted out to
become a medical cannabis patient. And as of recently with Jess Sessions
rhetoric, I've been very concerned. Now that being said, I commend President
Trump on his recent pledge to Senator Cory Gardner to respect the 9th and 10th
Amendment as regards to medical and recreational cannabis. Yeah, he's reversing
the mad dog sessions that does whatever he wants and that's really good news. But
I've seen the big studies on inflammation and issues. Now, marijuana works so much
better THC than other other things. So that's a good thing Trump's doing. Thank
you, Craig. We're gonna go Bam Bam Bam and more calls Austin in Tennessee,
Catherine in Canada, Jay in California, Marcus in Texas, Carol in Pennsylvania,
Daryl and so many others straight ahead. I'm Alex Jones, infowars.com,
newswars.com. Stay with us. We'll be back on the other side. It's just good to see
Mel Brooks, everybody coming out against political correctness. Info Wars Life is
bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block. We
have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and
respiratory function. In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people
who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory
responses. They began studying this effect in published trials and decades
later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and
effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it
actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that
amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body. Go outside and
enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our
pollen block chewable tablets. Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive
enzyme product by infowarslife. Digestive enzymes assist in the digestion process
and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into
easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion
caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive enzyme
production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like
those naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich
foods again. You can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later
indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets. Just
one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and
absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles. Carnivore also
contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can
fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by
infowarslife. Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's infowarslife.com. They use their media to assassinate real news. They
use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler. They
use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat
their narrative over and over again. And then they use their ex-president to
endorse the resistance. All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream
racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows, burn cars,
shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding until
the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness. And
when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we
stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this
violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth. I'm the National Rifle
Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place. You know if I tried to sit
here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in Fuller's life.
It'd take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the
other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's
back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the
preclinone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then
it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can
upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal
silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's
a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super
high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank
you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you
that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the
second American Revolution.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
He never gives up. He's Alex Jones. Broadcasting from deep in the heart of Texas, worldwide.
They told me about this 45 minutes ago and I didn't jump on it because all there
was was a report and they gave me the article of a van running over a bunch of
people in Toronto. But then I read the new reports that just came out during
the segment and it looks like dozens and dozens of people including babies and
strollers run over painstakingly premeditated late by the religion of
peace. They'll probably spend days blocking the identity of the male taken
into custody. See that's why it couldn't be a cop. I watched somebody run over a
bunch of babies and women and stuff. You're not going into custody. This is
a CTV news out of Canada. Witness van struck every single thing on Toronto
sidewalk. It just and the answer is bring in more Muslims put barriers up.
That's that's the media's answer. Police have arrested a suspect of a white van
mounted the curb and struck numerous pedestrians in Toronto. The incident
happened on a young street south of Finch Avenue according to the Toronto
Police Service. Initial estimates suggest eight to ten people were struck. Witness
Alex Shaker who was driving south about the time since he saw a van traveling at
high speed on a sidewalk. The van was also southbound. He started going down on
the sidewalk and crumbling down people one by one. Shaker told CTV news channel
on Monday afternoon. Shaker said he saw the vehicle strike someone with a
stroller. Well under Islam that's a bonus bonus point. He better be more
being Islamophobic. I'm sorry that's why the Islamists want to get out of their
own countries and come here but he just destroyed so many people's lives he said
every single thing that got in its way. And then it just goes on from there. I
think to be more open to Islam we should like bowling pins have preschools go
into Islamic areas and just like bowling pins line the kids up like pins and then
it can be a new Islamic sport for America's guilt and they just get a
truck and just wham the kids. And then Tom Arnold can tell you any conservative
black activist women should suck you know people's genitals and it's all it can
kill people suck genitals you know the longest the left doesn't it's cute. All
giant Stockholm syndrome trying to train us how to submit to all this in
Europe submitting to all of it. It's truly sick. Tom Arnold you know telling
Candice Owens you know suck you know what it's all just sick just sick bullies.
And I got another story here the Waffle House government's been taken into
custody. He had his AR-15C's months ago by the FBI but that never stops the
lunatic who should be in a mental asylum right. But good guys with guns
stopped him. So there's that report that's good news. But what have you heard
you really even disagree with the last hour if you're listening. Why does this
show need to be banned because of Hillary. Because we're not good for
tyrants that's why.
Let's talk to Cameron and Florida. Cameron and Florida are on the air and
then we'll go to Marcus we'll go to Jay and others. Go ahead Cameron thanks for
calling. Brother Alex Jones so happy to be back on the show again makes you get
in touch with your staff about the Haiti emails and whatnot when I went over to
Haiti with the Son of God orphanage. You have seen the enemy I have seen the
enemy and they know of us and so look into that. So you sent us emails about
what you saw in Haiti tell us about that briefly and I'll give a limited
staff and I'm trying to all this great stuff coming we'll try to flag it and
look at it what did you say. Yes sir so there's an orphanage called the Son of
God orphanage that was being used as a child sex trafficking and organ
harvesting center. I had to run in with the United Nations they were not there
with a bottle of the water of food they were there with the machine guns there
that's that that's all in itself we can talk about that more but your resorts
that you talked about you can do those resorts just with land God and a good
method with good people. Let it be reboot camps Ted Nugent can help you get
those things where people can reprogram and break the conditioning and get
people on a local level on a mass scale to really change their home their
community and then as a nation because I'm on this Trump. Darius says she's
looking into your info the producer just popped my ear but let me tell you this
I'm not saying you're a bad guy you sound really great I know Hillary's
people got caught shipping kids out Haiti's been used for all sorts of
Satanism that's confirmed I don't know about the Son of God orphanage the
meals say that I'm saying this about them have there been any arrests any
indictments I mean I know a lot of the stuff goes on Haiti but but but I'm
flying blind here I mean has it been in the news will be what's happened
according to what you're saying as a caller this is why they hate talk radio
as it gives you a voice it's just that I'm sitting up here under a microscope
they'll then say what my callers say I'm saying I don't know about the son of
God orphanage I know about Hillary's people caught shipping kids out getting
indicted getting convicted after conviction they changed their name
they're involved with kids orphanages again so we know that Hillary and their
whole crime said they could have a real taste for Haitian blood for whatever
reason and the Haitian people know that it's not just about what they did over
there it with minerals there is NBC Haiti closes orphanage for child neglect
upper complaints okay keep going I was I was there you have pictures you can I
think it'll all be confirmed okay anyway also anytime you call somebody out
but you understand I've got to challenge you and I always have challenged
you a hundred percent they're coming after your free speech just like all of
ours but everything that I'm saying can be confirmed the crazier sound you say
the truth is stranger than fiction and brother it really is these people need
to wake up these notes though they were arrested involvement says and rested for
child trafficking and and it goes through it yeah there you go and there
were no there was zero arrest there were people who were who who were brought
forward but there were no true official arrests and and and there's details
well you've been there you sent us photos and videos I'm told by Daria
we're gonna get you on then my friend God bless you but but now shifting gears
into Cohen's office getting raided what your what's your take on that okay all
the real Trumpers are like so terrified because this happened but listen this
truly shows that they are absolutely desperate the Russian collusion is no
longer a story they're doing everything they can but Trump the master
strategist is not gonna have any type of thing in his lawyer's office these
people are so screwed and military tribunals are coming in the name of
Jesus it's happening law and order back in America I hear you but as strong as
Trump can be if what should we do as we tell you the globalists are in full
force attack and the average libertarian or Christian I know they think
everything's okay they don't get the maximum battle is on we just stirred up
the Hornets nest in 2016 what we need to do is take care of our personal health
have our home in order get involved on a local level have these big people on on
on all these great podcasts and stuff get together and have these grassroots
awards ceremonies and by the way there's a word that I want to give to Millie
Weaver and Owen Troyer for their courageousness and also a special guest
which Daria will also talk to you about I'm telling you brother we're gonna
you're on fire I'm gonna say a camera and learn more about you we'll get your
info try to get you on as a guest great job going to Haiti we've sent our folks
down there too it is just unbelievable I mean it is just unbelievable how the
left particularly has a taste for Haitian blood I mean I mean literally
it's just God they're evil I can't believe these average leftists call us
Nazis and call us names when they are like right under pure evil they are they
are serving pure evil God bless you Cameron okay who's up next here let's
go to Jay in California since we're on the subject of sessions and Colin and
all this or Jay just hung up is Jay there I rise I want to be hung up just
hung up okay let's talk to Lauren in California Lauren you're on the air
thanks for holding go ahead hey Alex is an honor to speak with you I'm just gonna
make this quick I'm 28 years old you know I've been a longtime listener up and
listening since I was 14 was turned on by my brother who thinks you're a
double agent now which is pretty hilarious but anyway you know at my age I'm
self-employed out my own business and I really give credit to all my
entrepreneurship to to Info Wars and you guys and you know I just really want to
help out and give back and so what what I think what I did is I created a website
called info wars outpost.com and it's a way for people like me who want to do
more in their daily lives but can't because they're so busy can if you own
a business or manage a business and you play TV or you have anything broadcasting
you play Info Wars instead you play your broadcast and that's how you're an
outpost basically you're the main force and we as Info Warriors need to start
setting up outposts and establish them. And people should know just watching the
show on your TV or computer drives it up in the ratings but you can also put a
little FM transmitter in broadcast your neighborhood put up little little signs
or whatever I mean is that what you're getting at? Well basically just if you
own like an art shop you know and or a coffee shop and you have TV playing instead
of having... By the way your site looks great I need to hire you to build us some
websites InfoWarsOutpost.com. Yeah basically the idea like I said is you
guys are the main force and your information is so crucial it needs to
get out there so you know if you own a coffee shop or an art shop it doesn't
matter what it is you know you and you have TV playing you play your broadcast
instead of instead of having CNN or MSNBC playing in the background and the
get Lawrence number. I want to get him on as a guest talking more about him
InfoWarsOutpost. Let's get him on the war on my show that's really exciting and
it's things like that that add up and defeat the globalists if we do things
grassroots it's over they're trying to destroy us to intimidate you thank you
Lauren. Mike in Arizona you're on the air worldwide go ahead. Oh Alex you can
rant any day of the week thank you sir for doing what you do and being a
patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow
patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long-time InfoWars
listener I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force Anthroplex my
girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex. Thank you. I use the
bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big
normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for
the InfoWars life products they are quality I can't wait to get some more
and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely we
because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and
women understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our
houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves we can take our country
back.
InfoWarslife and InfoWarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our
latest release Winner Sun a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winner Sun is a
premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement it is produced by
extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every
batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content it's completely free of toxins
and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is
it. Winner Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin
D3 the research and development took over two years but the result as
verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in
the world. Read the facts at InfoWarslife.com about Winner Sun vitamin D3 not
only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory
and brain function something the globalists are targeting. Visit InfoWars.com
today or call 888-253-3139. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
877-789-2539. If you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance live
from the InfoWars.com studios it's Alex Jones and Lionel's coming up former
prosecutor syndicate of talk shows really smart guy he wants to continue with
calls the number to join us is 877-789 Alex 877-789-2539 and Owen Shroyer
Rodgerson and others with the war room love taking your phone calls we should
do it a lot more I'll come in and introduce Lionel here in about six
minutes but right now let's go back to calls let's talk to Marcus in Texas and
Daryl Marcus you're on the air go ahead okay so what I think is going on with
this with this cuz you and Zach had talked about the the potential for
ISIS false flags and then what does ISIS do they put out a video or a little
picture rather of they're gonna target CNN the UN exactly yeah yeah yeah and so
and so what what what do all those things have in common to as well as they
are the globalists they represent the globalists it's that all InfoWars and
there's and believe it or not there's a lot of much-minded people who who
happened to have chosen the right side but don't really know why or are either
just makes the you that makes it makes the the globalist the good guys right
right and it's it's going to make it's going to make certain people say oh
wow ISIS is sexy they're already trying to make ISIS ISIS sexy they've been
doing it with the Antifa and and it's a stupid move it's not gonna work
especially if we talk about it but just like Kim just like Kim had said last
week a caller that called in about how they're trying to confuse people and
and and use you as a as a as a litmus test to get get everybody you know if
this is said and then Alex Jones is associated with it then that topic gets
immediately killed and made stupid but that's it's not gonna work but as a
young as a young black American who's just loves liberty and and is in field
the resurgence of liberty I can I can only say that we need to be more like
Candace Owen's black people and stand up because that's what's gonna smash the
paradigm as well as white people standing up because they can say oh yeah
you're racist if you if you cheer on something that's being said in your
white but if you're black like Kanye in your black like Candace Owen's in your
black like Tim black or whatever you there's just there's no way they can
I was about to say I don't like racist white people a lot racist black people
it's just stupid like Kanye West said he's had a lot of courage that yeah it
goes on but it's a system of mental illness that anybody can be part of
it's just dumb like you eat who has good food don't care what color they are
you listen to music don't care what color they are you date people it matters
how you how they are and how they look now what color they are and it's just
this whole thing is just stupid and it's used to control us and now the way
they threw Kanye West in a mental institution last year for support and
Trump for almost two weeks it just shows well that's like Russia used to be 60
years ago that's not how we're supposed to be so I admire Kanye West I'll be
honest I don't cover pop stuff so I didn't like Kanye because all the
Kardashians and all that but now that I've actually looked into him the last
two years he's got a lot of courage and so I mean I'm glad he's out there right
I didn't realize I didn't realize until they started to persecute him how he was
important and why the Trump knew the movement was for me like I was I was
already on the Trump train but it only didn't hang up sorry Marcus your phone
cut out say that again I said everything that they've done with Kanye if
anything woke me up more and it made me sit there and say well yeah I kind of
thought Kanye was stupid running on stage and you know getting in front of
Taylor Swift and you know why is he married to the Kardashians but then I
see him I see him later I learned no cuz the MTV fakes the awards it isn't real
and they just give it whoever they want like I talked to I can't talk about it
but a lot of these reality TV shows and exercise shows and things where they're
in the wilderness somebody else wins but politically they'll choose who they
want to win so Kanye West said the thought police wants to press freedom of
thought and so absolutely it's very exciting and I mean I don't know what
they're gonna do to I guess they're gonna call him a white supremacist what
do you think of Tom Arnold telling Candice Owen to suck cock delight that
to suck you know what yeah I mean I've been to Hollywood I'm a musician I went
to Hollywood and I was I was in the top you know I mean music music label that
was there was gonna do things and they sat me down in a room and they said look
man you need to act more black and I'm like whoa whoa whoa whoa I've been
woken up to Hollywood Tom Arnold we need I mean he he somebody needs to smack
him in the back of the head Marcos stay there back in 60 seconds I want to
finish up with you in the hand of the time the Lionel I want to hear about
what they sat you down in a room and told you introducing cell force by info
war's life cell force focuses on mitochondria efficiency and protection
mitochondria produce over 95% of your energy they are your body's cellular
engines cell force helps promote your cellular energy production by supporting
mitochondria much like a cellular engine overhaul because when your
mitochondria don't run at 100% efficiency then they start producing
reactive oxygen species top scientists agree that aging is most likely caused
by cellular damage resulting from these reactive oxygen species the
antioxidants found in cell force are some of the most powerful available on
the market the stronger the antioxidant the better its ability to scavenge for
these reactive oxygen species and other free radicals boost protect and adapt
with cell force from info wars life head to info wars life dot com or call
1-888-253-3139
pointing what appears to be a water gun the image of President Donald Trump
projected on a white board our teacher pale moody has not been seen by countless
viewers across the internet yes I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the
White House it's an actor dressed to look just like President Donald Trump as
he's assassinated on stage pictures and video depicting comedian Kathy Griffin
holding the bloody decapitated head of President Trump are no joking matter for
the Secret Service a rhetoric that has inspired the violence has come from the
mainstream of the Democratic Party they're involved in the coup an active
attempt to start a bloody civil war
all right Lionel former prosecutor syndicate a TV radio host has taken
over always love having him host the show we're taking some amazing calls
to continue with calls on the grab bag of issues that are all over the map I'm
gonna finish with this caller right now but I wanted to bring this up to him
because he's a lawyer we couldn't believe I want to ask you what you think is
going on because I've got a lot of law firms involved in this some of the top
ones in the country and they've never seen lawsuits this fake filed to
obviously get the PR and just say horrible things in the suit that you
can't get away with in public and so Georgetown contacted the court and my
law firm in DC and Mark Balin today and so we were drawing our lawsuit tomorrow
but we were not stupid we know they're gonna probably refile one because we
had that press conference we get we can have to go in DC and pointed out just all
the insanity I mean not just typos but they just say for 70 pages things we
never said which I'm automatically you get a slapback now the Virginia passed
last year so we're predicting there were there withdrawing it there'll be no
media coverage and they'll pull out all the defamation and refile it but now the
media outlets that ran with that unless they run retractions we've got to reach
out to them we've got to notify all this media and they have 30 days depending on
the state they have to retract but that's an army of our folks at the contact
you know hundreds of publications and CNN you name it and say hey this has been
retracted this isn't true and then they just expect we won't I think they're
going to refile but you're you know you were a successful prosecutor down in
Miami and you've done your own deal and you know National Talk Show host your
smart guy let me ask you before we finish with some calls you take over why
do you think they didn't report on us filing countersuit against them a week
and a half ago and now they're withdrawing the Georgetown Charlottesville fake
lawsuit where they claim I said some camera man killed a woman never said
that I mean it's that's what I mean my lawyers go this is like what you'd file
to lose a slapback suit it's like textbook what do you think's happening
just arrogance or they think I'm riding around on horses are down here and I'm
like what's that I never heard of electricity I mean all these lawsuits
are incredibly fake we've got to fight them we've got a countersuit but this
thing if you put a quarter in the machine you sue us you get this big
Mario go around in the media of lies they got to pay the piper I think you're
starting to figure that out what do you think well I couldn't tell you I mean I
I'm not trying to be coy I couldn't tell you I'm not even sure about this but I
gotta tell you one thing Alex it's never it's it's never ceased to amaze me how
these lawsuits don't even look like lawsuits take the one last last week
there was that the that the DNC filed against Russia I love this one Russia
where do you serve Russia anyway but but the the lawsuits the the actual cause of
action the complaint is a narrative of a almost like a novel and then that's what
I said it's like a screenplay or what's now you publish your screenplays in
court that's how you publish now well normally the you know these complaint
are very very sterile and they're very precise they're very surgical you can
say well and admitted and I admitted and I deny you know and they're very very
good with citation the best one if you can get a hold of this one remember
remember Alex it was up a Friday afternoon and the and the government
filed against 13 imaginary mysterious I think actual Russian bots it was a
Friday right at the time at the FBI was coming under tremendous attack for why
they didn't follow up sure we know it's all PR that's what I'm saying so if they
were why do they so it is filed is like a publishing a novel this is how you
publish digital novels now you sue someone you defame them you call it a
defamation suit so how do we respond to this well but I don't know and also the
idea of complaints are there to a prize you you know notice pleading to put you
on notice this is what was said this is why it violates this is this is how you
frame your response this is whatever and we're getting more and more of these and
and I'm sorry I've not read a particular specifics of your case but in the in the
two that I've mentioned I read this and I and I've asked colleagues of mine I'm
saying have you see anything like this you know what's interesting I'm saying
so I'm asking you what is this is a lawyer for a prosecutor that's my lawyer
tell me they go this is new this is like a novel a screenplay of made-up crap they
publish it because it's protected from defamation as its court the media is not
protected I think they know regurgitating it's not and then embellishing it
so it's a new level of like leftist insanity or you're trying to create an
alternate dimension I mean what is it I again I'm trying that I don't know what
motivates these people but I do know this there are strict rules of
professional consideration and professional responsibility and rules of
ethics that are actionable anytime a lawyer signs off with something you're
saying you have good faith in this and this is this is actionable this is based
on law this is based on your good faith their officers of the court standing up
saying this is bonafide absolutely and it's also we have really seen now new
ways of using the notion of libel from what it used to be you know one of the
things that's the most that that is completely missed is simply this you
know Alice in the old days somebody would say for example here's the
prototypical case you said something that was a lie I'm a business owner you
made a statement of fact not an opinion nothing that was protected and based
upon this erroneous statement of fact I lost my business I lost my customers
nobody gave I suffered economic damages I can show you I suffered from what you
said you said this and it's not true that's the prototypical classic
quintessential libel you've made a statement of fact that turned out not to
be true today it's kind of morphed into hurt my feelings or said something which
in the court of public opinion may be shocking but not is necessarily actionable
the best one I think is how sometimes people claim they were even damaged you
know you can't rob somebody when they're asleep you have to be awake to be to
show fear there's certain things you have to know about so somebody says hey by
the way did you hear what this guy said about you in Wyoming no how do you prove
damages I was about to say they bring up these made-up cases that no one ever
heard of to say I'm doing bad things to people and they're the ones publishing
the BS that I didn't say they say you defame somebody they put out the lie I
didn't say and then say I'm liable because the mainstream media just put the
lie out this is like next level insanity you know you know what I'm saying is
those that God would destroy they first make man I think this is the beginning
of the end of the legal profession as we've known I mean I believe they're
committing political suicide and even though aside from the fact that this is
and I think people sometimes mistake the anger the frustration the money I'm sure
you could be using a lot of your resources and far smarter ways and
hiring lawyers whatever the arrangement is but here's the irony though I don't
want to bring up Nietzsche but what what they what does that destroy you makes
you stronger you are basically providing a platform and in a strange almost a
backwards way validating the veracity of what you're saying by giving you the
platform because if you said something which was totally insane assuming you
said it but that was absolutely baseless who would bother it's like you only take
flak when you're over the target in a strange way in a reverse way of
psychologizing if you will if that's a word you're actually valid they're not
thinking past one step they don't get there to fight these cases why are they
elevating us what all this exactly you're gonna take over a great caller
Marcos that's more to save you go to him I'm gonna let you take over all these
great callers Daryl John Carlos Pastor Sam Austin Gathering it's the great
Lionel of Lionel media with you right now I'm Alex shows with news wars.com
and info wars.com follow Lionel at Twitter at Lionel media and Lionel
media.com we'll be right back on the other side in the war room with Owen
Shroyer stay with us
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable
insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions
navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own
healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share Liberty Health Share is
not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded
people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor
learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required
proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects
the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in America today ready to
eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale
price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat
bacon.com water is the single most important thing your body needs so you
want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands have
depended on Berkey purified water the Berkey guy provides the lowest price
filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in
an emergency get to goberkey.com we're call 877-886-3653
877-886-3653 goberkey.com you have been lied to my name is Kevin ship I'm a
former decorated CIA officer finally someone has come out and written what I
think is the best ex Mose on the shadow government ever we're in a
constitutional crisis and our government is now being run to ruled by a shadow
government we got to get this out because just because you're awake folks
doesn't mean other people are this is critical to get to read a good library
to the church get it right now at killingunclesambook.com killingunclesambook.com
I'm so excited the new product at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle two
months servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real Red
Bill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have any
stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that
quite frankly I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their
patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred
two hundred dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae working
with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America 120
capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the
precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now available at m4warsstore.com
and your purchase fugs the operation we've taken thousands of years of known
research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to
find the very best systems that God gave us to mother nature to detoxify the
body that's why I'm introducing Z shield toxic metal and chemical defense
support it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the
info or it is a classical 360 when this is the formula that I personally have
been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to
perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to
yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in
the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can
be because we need you the remnant of America to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your
support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to
change our bodies with z-field and m4warslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
to tyrants is obedience to god it's alex jones
I'm not in line with you sitting in for alex jones so glad to be here when I
get down to business I got so much to talk about I I've been thinking which is
a dangerous thing and one of the worst parts about this is what I want to talk
about there's 25 million things so no particular order and no particular sense
of what's important what's not let me tell you what's really getting me charged
up do you know what last night opened let me try this in English you know what
opened last night there we go on Broadway do you know what it was that
absolutely has taken Broadway by storm do you have any idea Harry Potter Harry
Potter now I will tell you this much I'm not familiar a lot of Harry Potter I
know who he is I know what it is the story that is but what is it about and I
got you got to give you a lot of provisos here I don't believe in black
magic I don't believe in any of this stuff I don't I am I'm sorry this point
of complete disclosure I'm irreligious I don't speak God and I don't speak
French I'm not saying that French people don't exist just because I don't
understand what they're saying and I'm not saying there's no religion because I
don't understand it but I'm not into any of that stuff no matter what so I don't
react in horror from that point of view but isn't it funny that right now as
this world this society of ours is being so contaminated by the rank the fetid
the feculate the the the rancid world of sex trafficking sex abuse human
trafficking cults and the like by virtue of people who believe in
symbology and letting you know everything that they do with hand signals
and Instagrams what is going on here do you think that's interesting I think it
is I just want to give you that park it over there just make you say hmm for no
particular reason to say that's odd now I think it's horrific people could see
whatever they want I don't care about it but just think wizards warlocks magic
spells the occult whatever does that scare you does that frighten you maybe
maybe not but isn't that interesting because you know the more that I think
we as humans elevate beyond that the more I say I see that we've never really
evolved that we've been like this since we first crawled out of the ooze and we
have looked at symbology and we have looked at ways to change our environment
locus of control we've tried potions and talismans and we've tried everything
from rain dancing to and we do it right now with weather manipulation we're
trying through either extracurricular through religion through what have you
but isn't that funny that people are going to be applauding and lauding and
heralding what is basically the occult one could say think about that one let
that sink in next I've got to tell you this much this amazes me because you
gotta look at things the way I do I look at I'm thinking okay this is
interesting California is most probably gonna pass a bill Governor Moon beam is
gonna pass a bill against conversion therapy because they believe that
conversion therapy is a fraud they believe that the idea of taking somebody
who is gay and changing them or converting them is a fraud that it's
wrong and it harms people and you know what I would probably say you're
absolutely right I think that is species being able to convert somebody right
we're in a heck with somebody get that crazy idea that you could what just
decide one day yeah I'll go to the doctor and he'll convert me as though sexual
behavior is malleable and prudian that you can decide that it's fluid that one
can have gender us wait a minute isn't that what we're told hold it wait a bit
if we are born I guess or if we could select are we born by sexual are we
born gender nebulous it's sexual orientation lists what does this mean
how can someone say this conversion therapy does wrong and I probably agree
with you it could just ruin somebody by making them be straight when they're gay
or I guess somebody could go in and have the opposite I wonder I wonder if
California would mind if somebody said no I want to be gay they might say no
that's not the same whatever but do you see the following problems with us
number one we're told that there is no such thing as gender we're told that
there's no such thing as sexual orientation and also what do you mean
that a type of psychological treatment is a fraud what do you mean there's no
basis for it you've been telling kids they have ADD and ADHD which they may or
may not have and other people have said I don't think so you have absolutely
narcotized generations based upon things in the DSM and DSM five that you've
made up on the spot now why can't I call that a fraud and furthermore if there is
somebody whose faith is such that they believe that you can through prayer or
divination or whatever the heck you want that you can change sexual orientation
through prayer and the like which might fall under the rubric of this conversion
therapy then why pray tell why is that wrong isn't that their first amendment
right to believe in this this is one of the danger but the most dangerous laws
that people are applauding but they haven't thought about it they can give
your kids vaccines they can give your kids psychotropic medication to change
their ability to think and process through ADD HD they can do so be because
somebody has said this is a fraud are they gonna do astrology next no wait a
minute here in New York on every corner there's either a bank on nail salon or
an astrologer there's astrology all over the place get your palm red and tarot
cards are we gonna pass a law that says that's a fraudulent course not I'm not
saying it is I don't particularly believe in it I'm not much of a believer
despite what the monkeys may have intoned but is that not for me to decide
how is it that in this particular case the government of California decides
we are going to impart our wisdom on a particular modality on a particular
type of therapy on a particular way of thinking regarding a particular situation
that they believe these conversion folks that they can change behavior when by
the same token every other story tells you not only can you change on your own
that gender and sexual orientation is fluid but that you were born with the
blank slate the tabula rasa look at laws carefully look at the news carefully
and peel back the layers of the onion and look and see for yourself does this
make any sense to you you can't have it both ways now I want to talk about some
other aspects of it I want to talk about lawsuits this DNC insanity against
Russia we're gonna be talking also but no gas in Syria and how apparently a lot
of people in this administration have looked the other way our number for
those of you so inclined is 877-789-2539 that's 877-789 Alex we have more coming
up I know with you glad to be here I want to hear from you
they don't hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand
your horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique slingshots and
sling bows on the market at slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and
models start from just 1798 they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing
in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition
of slingbow a new frontier and archery and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com water is the single most
important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you
and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on
Berkey purified water the Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration
systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to goberkey.com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 goberkey.com
you know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we
have it in Fuller's life it take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price
it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the
mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for
months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural hormones
your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you
can upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal
silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's
a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high
quality silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for
remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you
that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the
second American Revolution. Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting
announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to
fight the globalist and living a free society several years ago I set out with
top formulators in the US to create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that
this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
infowarslife.com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give
yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total
absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info
warslife.com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your
brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the USA get
your alpha power today at infowarslife.com everybody needs to try alpha
power today nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with
prebiotic fiber by info warslife help the good bacteria thrive and support
overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a
mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good
bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your
immune system info warslife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the
highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic
fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info warslife.com or
call 1-888-253-3139
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
Defending the Republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's Alex
Jones
of the hour I want to do one more thing that'll take your calls I mentioned
this this Harry Potter story which I just find so interesting because I'm
thinking of myself this is the occult well no it's not the occult in case you
just tuned in last night Harry Potter opened on Broadway and they're going
nuts with it because most Broadway shows are a bomb nobody makes any money
they fall there but this is gonna be this is gonna go up for 10 years this is
big if anybody know what this is now recently I don't know if you have been
if you're like me I know that your Alex has followed the great Zach and and I'm
a Q and on addict and I I don't know why I'm just losing my mind I'm getting
these coded messages they just drop we got no news here I'm like I'm looking at
this and I'm being delused with this notion of evil and what's interesting as
well as that we've been having here in New York more talks about sex rings sex
slaves human trafficking left and right and I'm thinking to myself you know why
this is they're habituating you to the idea of this so that when this breaks
especially when somebody big breaks when somebody is involved in this because
you've been getting little little little breadcrumbs as they say a little
little little hints here and there you mentioned Epstein in the island and the
legal express and this one's in on traveling on the plane and this one and
then we have this this actress Allison Mack and she's arrested and pretty soon
you're becoming more and more acclimated habituated where stimuli that are not
novel you you get used to like when you put on a watch for the first time it's
kind of clunky and heavy but then you become used to do it it doesn't seem
clunky anymore you're habituated to it well that's what you're being hit with
because when you find out one day when this thing blows and you're gonna see a
variable who's who of who's been involved in this but I want to bring in that
Harry Potter you know there's a group of people out there in the world that is so
evil so medieval so horrible you got to ask yourself what is evil I don't want
to get too philosophical right now but I've been in the business of the legal
biz for a long time and I've seen some bad people and for the most part the
people that I've seen in the criminal justice system I would not call them
evil I call them opportunistic stupid desperate dumb momentary lapses of any
kind of conscious you know control but not evil because what is evil evil is
this systematic targeted sense the victimization of human beings for the
sake of the horror and Philip Zimbardo who did go back to the Stanford
Prison experiment what that was about in 1970 Stanley Milgram in the Milgram
experiment remember the shock test in the 1960 how is it that people become
a part of this how is it that seemingly rational people grow up and find
themselves in these sick covens that we're looking at and most people are
doing everything in their power to look the other way to say this this is
exaggerated this is some tin foil hat and by the way it's not tin foil it's
alone I'm we haven't worn ten in years like the great Gorba Dallas I'm not a
conspiracy theorist I'm a conspiracy analyst but right now I'm looking at
this notion of evil we're seeing more Luciferian satanist satanist rather
William Friedkin is talking about exorcism he's talking about the
Catholic Church and actually filming exorcisms in the devil remember Lucifer
from the Latin Luke's Lucis light giver of light the morning star from Venus all
of this stuff right now is reminding us that what we have lived with for
generations for epics for eons the notion of evil and the occult Harry Potter
mysticism warlocks and wizards and it's real this stuff is not there are people
who is as this particular shows there are people who are now espousing
connectivity to this and let me also throw in a couple of things to really
make this even more frightening number one number one there is a a psychology
that is involved here this is one of the things that fascinates me mob
psychology Gustav Le Bon I did about mob mobocracies and mob in psychology
throngs groups parcels riots people who coalesce together sometimes to do good
when when complete strangers run out of offices to pick up a car that's flipped
over on some innocent person sometimes we see human beings coalescing in this
beautiful this this this synergy of good we're not talking about that but
eclocracies mob rule craze rule cults how is it that seemingly normal people
would say brand to me how is it that they can be involved in something where
all of their natural indications all of the alarm systems which they would
normally employ employ that would be on red alert whenever there would be
indications or indicia of this involving sex and children and but how
horrible is this this world and I know it's a minority of case I'm not saying
that the whole world is contaminated and fetid but look at what we're looking
at right now and what opened last night Harry Potter we have this love affair
this this this kind of a drive-by conversions with who these people are
let me tell you something you are capable of evil anybody is capable of evil
your children your family if not watched if not supervised if the right
situational dynamics happen you could find yourself unfortunately in that
situation and I know it's horrible to say but in any event let's go to the
phones shall we at eight what's the number be nice if I had it eight seven
seven seventy nine two five five nine let's go to let's go to there's so many
great ones how about pastor Sam in Oklahoma you're on the Alex Jones show
with Lionel hi Lionel thank you for taking my call there's a legal case I'm
following very closely it is in the federal court of Brownsville Texas and
in fact the governor Tomas Yarrington is on the stand right now as we speak on
this very day in Brownsville Texas this is a case that's received almost zero
good investigative reporting but it's important because Tomas Yarrington was
very good friends with Rick Perry and what is the case about Pastor Sam what
is the case about exactly very very quickly succinctly we don't know as
much as you do obviously yes sir the case is about the accusation that Tomas
Yarrington was supporting the drug cartels and that he was taking money and
laundering money for them things that we know that Bill Clinton did and things
that we know the senior CIA did all over the world but this man as a very
viable presidential candidate in the last election but as this candidacy was
rising this accusation came and it came out of the United States out of the
San Antonio federal district court in the DEA so after five years of hiding
he has been arrested in Italy been in custody for a year and it just was
extradited to the USA on Friday last after close of business and today he's
in federal court in Brownsville Texas. Pastor Sam I want to thank you for your
call we are certainly going to be looking at that one because I find it you
know one of the things which I always caution folks with be very very careful
when you put people on the stand when you find yourself in the position of
wanting to charge somebody with something because oftentimes they can take the
stand and say you know what I'll testify but to a lot more than you had in
mind I always wanted to see what would happen if when Manuel Noriega remember
Cara de Pia pineapple face remember that I always wanted to say what would he
possibly testify to and alike we'll go on more and more when we talk about this
DNC ridiculous lawsuit that's coming up I remember 877 8 say yes that's it just
877 no 877-789-2539 Lionel with you sitting on Info Wars thanks to Alex
Jones we have more coming up so stay tuned and pay attention
Info Wars Life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it
it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated
fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be
the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it
synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well
as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the guy so
this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber
product and these other products you get them separately or together and make
really really big savings and get high-quality products at the same time
and I'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out at a
month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with it's sold
out for another month and a half we sold it at 50% off till it's sold out and I
think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today in Full Wars
Life.com you know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products
we have it in Full Wars Life it take hours Michael's the X plus and now as a
lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics and knocks out
the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been
sold out for months it's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all
the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that
goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot
more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering in Full
Wars Store.com and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but
it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word and
again thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution let's go
to Devin and Florida Devin and Florida you're on the air. Great hey thank you so
much listen I have bought your product and I gotta say they're amazing. Anyone who's on
the fence buy it because I've I've got caveman, superman vitality, secret
oil, vitamin, mineral fusion, I've got the body armor. Wow thank you. You're the top of
the list that makes it all possible. Which dude for surgical does you like best?
I really like the vitamin mineral fusion to be honest. That's amazing. I drank it
in the morning and I swear to you I felt incredible like I haven't felt sweet. My
morning was fantastic and I love the guys I love the info was true and I
just want to yeah I want to I want to take this opportunity to tell anybody
out there who's on the fence just buy it you will love it I'm telling you I've
never bought a bad product. What you find in our news is the same thing you find
in our products at infowarslife.com. It's a win-win infowarslife.com. Choose to
take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true
selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential
mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain
fog. Survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Well I won't back down no I won't back down you can stand me up at the gates
of hell but I won't back down gonna stand my ground
won't be turned I want to thank Alex Jones for allowing me the opportunity to
be with you I want to finish up with a couple of ideas a couple of thoughts
before we forget this whole thing first as you know this this insane lawsuit
last week which makes absolutely no sense whatsoever and why they did it I
have I have not the foggiest idea where the DNC is filing lawsuits against Russia
the GRU the the FSB Jared Kushner the Trump campaign everybody except
everybody except Donald Trump now this is the best part when you do this can you
imagine the counterclaims the the cross claims the third-party actions the
intervening the interveners at all of this complex litigation where somebody
then involves themselves in discovery hey DNC I'm one of the defendants I want
to see them their servers that Hillary bleach dried or bleach whatever they
call them stone washer I want to do that one I want to talk about the Seth
Rich thing what I want to talk about Seth Rich why because I believe in my
defense that the reason for this is that it's actually you didn't lose because of
any kind of contamination or collusion which by the way is not a law there is
no law there is nothing in a title 18 or anything called collusion I don't know
where this comes from people just I guess they just use it it's like sometimes
people will say and it was found guilty beyond the shadow of a doubt this like
what any who if somebody were to say I want to pursue this particular theory
that it was not Trump per se but maybe Seth Rich might have been the source of
this particular thumb drive to Julian Assange and I want information on that
and I also want in the course of this I want to subpoena and depose Anthony
Weiner and I want to find out who has that laptop and you might say wait a
minute where are you going with this to defend my case you've opened the door
you've opened it all you have to give me the opportunity to to a to exhaust as
you explore every conceivable defense that I have and if I file a counterclaim
then I can also seek discovery this is going to go on forever what motivated
these people I have no idea by the way do you believe in numerology here's one
for you the number 531 what is 531 today is the 531st day I believe since the
election of 2016 and in that time the Democratic Party has come up with not a
platform a vision an idea anything nothing the beginning in the end the
alpha the Omega of their particular idea is that they don't like Trump they
don't want Trump they are not a part of Trump they are they are not a big Trump
fan I got it and that's wonderful good for them what does that mean imagine
you're going to a restaurant welcome to not McDonald's what do you have I don't
know but we're not McDonald's I'd like to order something it doesn't matter just
anything yes I understand that but what do you have anything that make it makes
no sense now let me bring you up to speed on this one Mike Flynn Mike Flynn is
being asked to stump in Montana to erase Mike Flynn if he does not have his if
he does not withdraw a plea I'll explain this in a moment if he does not withdraw
his plea I don't know when one should right now if you think about this Mr.
Mueller who I have heard from friends of mine in the business friends of mine
people who have been in the government in the DOJ those who have really know
what they're talking about have held him to the highest of esteem and he must
think to himself how did I how did this happen this is my legacy this is it
he's no Comey put Comey over here by the by America has the attention span of a
net remember Michael Michael wolf wolf remember that one the book The Fire in
the Fury in this anybody remember that one it was on every show every day on
MSDNC on CNN and everything Michael Wolf Michael Wolf this is going to end the
Trump administration as you know it now it's in the bargain bin nobody cares then
Stormy Daniels what was that about who knows gone once they use you once they
desecrate you once they they they suck out of you any any relevance or
importance that they will use as a foil against Trump they discard you so now
we have Comey Comey goes out and he decides that he is going to literally
bore the hell out of humanity with this horrible rendition of something which
theoretically employs I guess something called entertainment this is a guy who
was worse than anything you can imagine I have a personal theory that James Comey
could reduce the teen pregnancy levels by explaining the sex act in detail
after five minutes of him explaining how intermission takes place nobody would
want to do it he couldn't lure me out of a burning building this disaster this
horrible disaster of a human being so that's that so anyway Mueller who was
from what people tell me a good guy a stand-up fellow has indicted let's see
first it was Manafort and Gates in activities that predate and to date this
presidency number one then there were the 13 Russian bots people we don't know
who they were it was on that Friday right at the time when people were
screaming and yelling at the FBI for not having done something to respond to the
Parkland shooter before he became the Parkland shooter then of course there's
Papadopoulos and Flynn now why are their cases important they pled guilty to lying
lying to the federal government 18 USC 1001 the basic you lie to somebody
remember Martha Stewart was never prosecuted for insider trading she
basically lied to the FBI and why her lawyer let her speak with anyone I'll
never know but that's for another show so your two main witnesses your two
government witnesses have pled guilty to lying to the government remember this is
different than Sammy the bull Sammy the bull Vinnie Teresa Joe velachi you're a
killer yes you pled guilty to killing yes you killed on behalf of this mafia
Don yes that's one thing why because only the killer would know this only the
killer who's involved in contract killings would understand this level of
organization that he does instead we have this state your name for their
record general Mike Flynn you were fired for what was that again oh yes lying
you lied to vice president Penn yes I did and you were like guilty to what was
that again oh yes lying you lied to the federal government and you admitted
under oath to lying so you lie to vice president Pence you lie to the federal
government but you're not lying now right and how do we know you're not lying
do you give us a kind of a signal now I'm not trying to make him out to be a
bad guy I am saying that when your chief witness your main guy your Joe
velachi your Sammy the bull you got him online and Papadopoulos who even knows
what he's about so Mueller right now is thinking what do I do what do I do and
then when he heard Friday the DNC did what they're doing this now because
imagine the cross claims and the discovery in this look it comes now to
simply this there is a move on this on the part of you can call the deep
state shadow government intel state police say whatever these people are to
get to subvert to to reverse basically the franchise this is a palace coup in
action you were seeing this unraveling you were seeing also and I want to leave
you with this and I want to say if there is one thing that I want to see I want to
see Hollywood in petta wood destroyed as a great Frank Zappa said and I will
paraphrase Hollywood is the entertainment arm of the Pentagon if you can bring
down Hollywood if you can bring these folks down in addition to the afore
mentioned if you can go remember this is the feeder system for funding for
contributions for spreading the meme and that also includes the Ted Baxter sock
puppet media as well when you see this crumble and be destroyed which I hope you
will see soon you will see one of the greatest gifts that this administration
will give this proud republic the ruination the end the finale the
valedictory of this rancid deep state cabal thanks you so so very much I
believe this is it it is a pleasure to be with you Alex Jones thank you for all
you do why not with you proud to be here comment it's been sold out for months
and now it's back it's micro zx plus lower price more ingredients because we
scaled up signed to your contract with a even bigger organic manufacturer and
producer scalability but now we're able to go at 50% off to $27 instead of $39
50% off because there's a lot of product and a lot of ingredients micro zx
now it's the other side of the equation everybody thinks about probiotics and
how great they are for your gut because of toxins the environment pesticides
herbicides but more importantly than bad bacteria the probiotics help this
place yeast mold creates slime walls and once the candida and the yeast and the
mold and all that get in there it causes all sorts of syrups issues well
this has got a bunch of concentrated herbs in it and compounds known to
destroy that slime wall don't wait to start detoxifying your body until it's
too late pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus now from the
info wars store
after being sold out for months our best-selling super blue fluoride
toothpaste is now back in stock infowarstore.com the first shipment of
super blue sold out in one week I thought it would be a six month supply for
listeners and since then people are beating down our doors wanting to be
able to resupply their super blue research across the board is clear in
fact it's certified when bacteria infect your gums it can enter your blood
stream and if you contribute to blood clots and heart attacks that's why the
last surgeon general's report on oral health warns that your oral health can
have a serious impact on your entire body super blue fluoride free toothpaste is
a groundbreaking new formula it's loaded with good halogen iodide so the bad
halogen fluoride super blue contains natural oils and ingredients used
biblical times to help wipe out bad bacteria and eliminate bad breath just
some of the ingredients in super blue chosen by our dental experts include
silo tall peppermint oil iodide nano silver and more learn more about info
wars life super blue toothpaste at info wars life dot com and support the info
war while you support healthy gums and teeth
you're listening to the alex jones show
