Well, one of the last big pieces in getting this radio and TV network really up and going
out. It's not just to have backup stuff on the radio servers and satellite, but for the
TV dish and the three studios we have and the hundred computers or so and all the cameras
and everything. That's about a hundred thousand dollar piece of equipment. The bids were out,
was going in next month. This is the time when the big spring storms hit and usually
once a year or so the power goes out even though we're in an industrial area and has
pretty good power. Austin's been hit by mega storms and so hopefully they'll get the power
back on. They were saying maybe four o'clock in many areas of the city. It's knocked down
the hundreds of trees. When I was driving into work it took me four to five minutes
instead of fifteen minutes. There were just trees down all over the place. Power lines
whipping around in the air. So tornado season here kicking in in Texas and the engineers
did a good job. We were always on the radio satellites. That never went down and we're
sending audio out on the TV satellite side. Apologize to our TV affiliates and cable affiliates
like Phonoscope and Houston and now hundreds of other stations and cable systems. By the
end of this month we are going to have the hundred thousand dollar total building system
and that's just for the system and then it costs a lot more to do some other things because
you got to have everything hooked into it. It's got to be live time that when the power
goes off it instantly seamlessly goes over. We have a lot of redundant backup power that
could have kept more of it up but just it kicking off some of the systems didn't work
right to not turn the computers off even though they only lost power for half a second and
so they all had to be rebooted and so there's we've got whole rooms of servers. It looks
like a Star Trek episode in here. We ought to give people a tour sometime. Knowing the
stuff we've got and I don't know I'm not exaggerating there's probably five six seven million dollars
of investment just in equipment in here that's currently being used. I can't imagine CNN or
Fox with those billion dollar studios where they've got just floor after floor after floor
of crap and even you'll see them have technical difficulties but they'll say New York we're
going to Atlanta or Atlanta we're going to Los Angeles we're going to our and then we
may have a problem they'll just switch over because you know any redundant systems imagine
being an astronaut up in space and you got like maybe one backup. So let me know when
we get Roger Stone on because he's obviously the big story today. Mueller looking at Roger
Stone and wanting to know about Roger Stone and the Russians. We have Roger we're gonna
go to break in about two minutes and I'll come back give him the floor. I have to go
take care of some family business today in the last couple of hours of the show so it's
good that Rogers here I guess via phone he's going to be hosting here and we'll come up
in a second and third hour but the power may be back on by then again we have a lot of
backup power generators and things but when they kicked off they didn't seamlessly click
over that's why these systems are computerized and very expensive that are whole building
for something this complex. So that's coming up but we are on backup on YouTube Facebook
and Twitter obviously they cap us all part of the censorship so anyone else who wants
to restrain our feeds it's free to air. Just like on satellite TV we have so many stations
picking us up because we're free to air you don't even have to carry the commercials
on our TV side. I love GCN been with them you know 20 years now as a satellite provider
I own my show I have my own network but they have to make a living I understand so they
get the ads and I'd rather just give them all the local radio stations so that's my
one sticking point with GCN is why should I not double this aggressive model of no ads
all the ads go to the stations and then I do a mandatory plug here live on air it'll
totally dominate I mean I just did this with TV 300 plus TV stations and cable stations
the last couple months I mean it's explosive and you see them coming after us I mean they
just we're overturning the whole game and it's little things like $100,000 hole building
power backup and I've read talking to engineers like military bases or big TV networks things
like that will have two or three redundant hole buildings and they still don't turn
on you know sometimes so Roger Stone the exclusive on Mueller and the police state and the accelerating
attempted coup from the Info Wars bunker in Austin Texas Imperial troops have not entered
the base stay with us fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the
Info Wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is
a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic
strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see
how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and
support recovery try the Info Wars life daily digestive pack today
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live on the front line of the
Info War there is a storm on the loose a huge
Tornadic storm has knocked out power in most of Austin Texas we have backup generators
that partially failed when they were kicking on and off so that fried a bunch of stuff
but the power with our backups is starting to come back to the rest of the critical stuff
here so I apologize to our 300 plus TV affiliates and more than 70 cable affiliates that just
turned us on the last three or four months but we've got coming in at the end of the
month a whole building system so I apologize to our wonderful affiliates out there but
on radio everything stayed up we had a backup backup so that is a good thing that the generators
going on the roof everything else got all the big backup battery systems so everything
is getting better we have huge breaking news now folks are getting hysterical like they
should you have Alan Dershowitz top respected Harvard lawyer very respected obviously you've
got other liberal lawyers like himself Jonathan Turley you name it saying that we now are
seeing a police state with Mueller and you've got also folks all over that are saying that
as well like Tucker Carlson and others because a police state isn't the cops themselves being
bad that's just third world banana republic stuff that's corruption a police state is
where the people running the federal police take over that happened with Julius Caesar
it happened then dozens of times before Rome finally fell in 410 it happens to every other
nation you know Hitler and his federal police they were called the Gestapo so when you have
rogue elements in the FBI who criminally are targeting an elected president in a giant
illegal dragnet on record and saying we never surveilled Roger Stone or Trump or his lawyer
or Trump tower that's an Alex Jones conspiracy theory you can type into YouTube or Google
or or Bing Alex Jones made up that Trump and his lawyer were wiretapped and you will get
hundreds of articles CNN clips the whole studio was up a plan for you right now just showing
you how on target we're going to Roger Stone exclusively and then now they go yeah we were
also Mueller was listening to Trump's lawyer and what did he get a payoff which was totally
legal to a woman so she wouldn't talk about their affair so they're in his dirty laundry
you know they're talking about how many warts he's got you know on his rear end or something
and Mueller of course tipped them off he said to it well he was he was spying on his lawyer
that's against the law in so many ways and it's all over Russia Russia Russia Russia
Russia so remember they lied to you they lied to you they lied to you they said that's
preposterous because Obama ordered it and he did it before they even had warrants so
they had to parallel construct go back and get the warrants in January it's incredible
I mean Obama was in the news well we've got the intelligence to show how bad he is and
we've been spying on him we go that's illegal oh we never did that and we say here's the
cover the New York Times saying they did and they went Jones is crazy he made that up that's
a fake headline Jones is fake news shut him down get him off air sue him sue him and so
now Alan Dershowitz and others the stories are all up on info wars dot com servers aren't
here where our power is partially out they're all over the place so you can go see the videos
on info wars dot com news wars dot com Europe wars dot com you can go to those sites and
you can see everyone saying this is a police state when a rogue group put in by the Clintons
and Obama over the years and neocon bush are all working together to bring down the president
and bring down an election doing whatever they want so if ever have them punch up the computer
clock over there so I know the clock how much time I have thanks I can't see the other
clocks over there in the dark thank you so let's bring Roger Stone up I cannot express
the magnitude of the insanity the danger of all of this and remember when I go to him
I'm going to turn the speakers on here each time I go to him so the people online can
watch us again I'm communicating here we kind of jury rigged this whole situation so going
to Roger Stone via phone right now who is the main target now on the new witch on to
smoke screen all the illegal spying the fact that there is no Russia gate Roger Stone thank
you for joining us Alex I've got to tell you in 40 years in American politics serving
three Republican presidents being present in the 1974 coup d'etat that took down Richard
Nixon because after all he had ended the war in Vietnam reached a strategic arms limitation
agreement with the Soviets opened the door to China I've still never seen anything like
this this is an unconstitutional illegal rogue operation that is simply designed to undo
the results of the last election this is sore losers using the courts in an illegitimate
way to try to avoid the decision by the American people oh you had an election we don't care
we don't care we're just making up this whole Russian collusion farce it's a joke and Mueller
is running rough shot over the civil liberties of anybody tangentially involved threatening
people you testify against Manafort or we'll send you to jail for life you testify against
stone or we'll destroy you I just have never experienced anything like it and Roger they're
going for broke they have university professors and people all over the news saying shut info
wars off banned their videos from Amazon Prime and Netflix they're totally panicking in game
that's about the Nazis and about eugenics and about IBM and the Holocaust they say it's
an evil film it must be banned they say quote this is just a backdrop I'm going to read
this right now to folks this is out of Allen level which a professor James Madison University
this is just the background he says that censorship is not enough he says but their approach these
to go beyond censorship of Jones and faxed that's a liberal movie that that he was exposing
vaccine damage I mean these people are admittedly going for authoritarianism everywhere Roger
they've totally panicked that America woke up to him and now this is their counter coup
against us this is their attempt they are going for broke the president now is fired
as legal team which you advise him to do when they said oh it'll be over by Christmas it'll
be over by April oh they're not looking at obstruction in you and now of course they
are the Trump has been lied to by his soft cowardly legal team and I don't know what
the hell Giuliani's doing now you know you want to send level with copy the first amendment
tell him to shove it up his dairy air this is extraordinary but you're absolutely right
about one thing info wars strikes fear in the heart of the neocons of the globalists
of the two-party duopoly that's brought the country and the people to their knees they
have to shut us down because we're the tip of the spear and because you Alex are fearless
you're not afraid of them you won't be cowed by them you won't be bullied by them you won't
be sued into silence by them and they hate that more than anything else when you stand
up to them when you show that you're a man and you're not a cock and you're ready to
fight and you'll go to the streets if that's what it takes and you continue every single
day to broadcast the truth and expose their unconstitutional plot it drives them completely
insane they have to get info wars off the air they have to get info wars off the internet
they have to get info wars off you two because we're exposing them and I want to be clear
as we go to break here in 30 seconds and I'm not trying to scare people because when they
get I say a bit they're coming for everybody they're demonizing me and lying about me and
in doing this in preparation for an assassination let's just be honest about that that's the
next move and hey as long as everybody understands that narrative I'm not worried about that I
knew what I got into doing this like John Paul Jones said I've only begun to fight I just
hope America understands we're dealing with the purest tyranny this planet has ever seen
it is scientific it is insanely arrogant it is crazy and I mean what everything Mueller
is doing is completely illegal they've lied to everybody they lied to Congress Comey said
that no one ever wire tapped the president or anybody else when he was running or when
he was elected or when he was president all of it premeditated criminalized by the Clinton
Cabal they'll be back with Roger Stone hosting via his cell phone some powers coming back
on here with our backup generators and again we'll be right back on TV and radio sorry
it's only audio for the cable and TV viewers but probably makes a little bit more fun doesn't
it attention business owners and independent contractors this is a money saving message
from tax mediation services if your business owes $20,000 or more in taxes we can help
you today right now listen dealing with the IRS is no picnic it's an intimidating and
extremely stressful process and you don't want to go it alone our attorneys know every
law every tax break and every possible opportunity to help you resolve and reduce your tax debt
and if you owe more than $20,000 you may be at the top of their hit list so don't take
your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own the IRS can seize your bank
account your home and even shut down your business call our tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818
and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business that's 1-800-261-9818 again
800-261-9818 healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance
plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the
healthcare system has become a challenge control your own health care costs and choices with
liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self
pay patients who unite with like minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
that's a no brainer a big burky water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name and gravity water filtration big burky and now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN call or click 1-877-99 burky or big
burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99 B-E-R-K-E-Y
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet for
more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico
where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans we have now managed
to secure these sought after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of
the patriot blend 100% organic coffee at info wars life dot com this coffee gives you a long
smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give
me personally hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or two and I
don't think you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune support
infusion blend you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great
tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at info wars life dot com Mike in Arizona
you're on the air worldwide go ahead oh Alex you can rent any day of the week thank you
sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging
us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time info wars
listener I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would
like to say thanks for the anthroplex thank you I use the bio true selenium the super
blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome
and thank you so much Alex for the info wars life products they are quality I can't wait
to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely
we because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves we can take our country back you're listening to the Alex
Jones show
we are faced by a organized public criminal conspiracy with rogue elements of the FBI
appointed during four different administrations of globalist Herbert Walker Bush Bill Clinton
and Hillary Clinton W Obama and they are pissed that Trump and patriots in our intelligence
agencies and the American voters and our friends in Britain took them down because the plan
was to totally end the U.K. the U.S. everything Europe's already fallen it's not that these
elites that we've got in charge right now are trying to be in charge are perfect they're
just not out to get us and they're not anti-capitalism God we're in trouble folks there are hundreds
of articles a day saying ban Alex Jones off of the air period and then they list a film
Robert De Niro promoted vaxxed that is a liberal movie and just shows medical science
and people getting hurt from vaccines that the inserts say you make a movie just reading
the inserts and it's everywhere it's these professors let's pull up this limowitz guy
he says look it's censorship we'll admit it take them off the air and he said it's not
enough then we have to train children Alex Jones is evil and then I saw an awesome record
statesman article in a Star Tribune article without even looking last night with the same
thing with writers going I went to my granddaughter school this week or I went to my daughter's
school this week was all daughters that's the script they put out and then they go and
they go oh Alex Jones is attacking Hillary and both articles were the same the same day
and it was like the young girls saw him in eighth grade and they all got sick and you're
like my God is this Venice way longer something there's state run media everywhere where they
are already in the school saying here's Alex Jones he hates women and the girls get sick
and they go he hurt the Sandy Hook children and they go oh and and and then it's just
all this branding this setup I was told by high level CIA that Sandy Hook didn't happen
and then I've always gone back and forth and I'm not attacking the people or the folks
and I can't sit there and look at those parents and have their kids die so I've said fine
I'm not going to argue that I'm sorry I apologize but they don't care the media always picks
it up and rebranded and says Jones is attacking children again Jones is saying goes to their
houses and tells us it didn't happen and for years I'm saying no it happened I apologize
I see the whole media setup in this and they just go back to it and it's tactics and they
go teach school children about me and tell them I'm doing it currently and then exaggerate
what I did and then sue me for it do you see the methodology do you see the plan saying
Trump's a loser Trump's a criminal Trump's incontinent Trump's a liar Cavuto turning
on him and saying you know you're the swamp you stink you said you signed more bills any
other president their first year you said you didn't know about your lawyer yes he had
the lawyer do it exactly doesn't matter it's his own personal life he's delivered 95% of
what he said he do and he's gotten a bigger tax cut and and more done if you look at what
he's done with executive orders and actions and bills and now there's peace deal with
North Korea coming up he's is one of the most successful presidents in our lifetimes in
the last century if he beats these globalists he'll be up there with George Washington but
the war is now and there is a coup against the president there is a public coup by rogue
group set up by Rosenstein and the Clintons and these whole cabal have been caught with
their fake dossier that they're still paying money their own families that work there to
make up this fiction and they follow lawsuits on Trump on myself on Roger we're the big
trifecta targets folks because they know we're not scared we're Americana and so I'm proud
to stand with Trump I get mad and sometimes we go sideways damn right because you really
get mad at those you care about your family this is it this is the war for America this
is the whole future this is the whole thing the powers coming back up our generators
are properly kicked in we have a whole building system basically but it didn't kick over right
I'm having a more expensive big one put in go back to Roger he'll be hosting all three
hours they have got to go take care of emergency operations here about 30 minutes that's come
up next segment our great intel source is bombshell info Pentagon confirms Chinese fired lasers
at US pilots but right now go back to Roger Roger I cannot express the rogue criminal coup
taking place they've committed all these crimes the illegal wiretapping of his lawyer they
said they didn't tap Trump tower got caught lying about that this is insane Roger extraordinary
so it's reported I think correctly but that the FBI was wiretapping was surveilling the
phone conversations of Donald Trump's personal attorney Michael Cohn today they said oh no
that's not true we were only monitoring his conversations far as I know monitoring means
listening in on let me explain I explained this I explained this back in 2017 when the
media was trying to confuse it they go Jones is lying there was no wiretap well they called
it wiretaps that's an old parlance in legalese and federal code monitoring is the whole NSA
term exactly so it's digital through their hub because they didn't add a little tap with
a recorder on at the phone company go ahead no it's outdated technology the point is of
course Cohn was under surveillance the president's personal attorney was under a surveillance if
Cohn paid stormy Daniels a porn star who's changed her positions in this whole thing
more times than she changes them in her videos that would not be an illegal act and even
if the president reimbursed Cohn that is not an illegal act he didn't use campaign funds
there's no illogicality here but just suppose that would say Bill Clinton a man who violently
raped and bit numerous women where was the mainstream media and that's the next huge
issue they've committed all these crimes illegal servers uranium one missing kids in Haiti
pedophile airplanes just endless corruption the death list you know just DNC staffers
shot in the back just total insanity investigators investigating that shot in the back in DC run
over with cars this is like pelican brief times a million it's just bonkers insane rogue
runaway train over the edge of the cliff rogue government rogue special counsel got almighty
and there's Giuliani saying to the attorney general you got to do something damn right
he does all these people can be indicted like that comey lied to congress and said no one
ever surveilled period or watched or listened to trump they all went in congress and lied
their asses off well you have uh john brennan a psychopath the former CIA director a wahabi
convert threatening the president of the united states saying that that Mueller's got the
good brennan you're not in government how would you go and he did that two weeks ago
he said he said we got the good you better watch your ass a presence coming from Mueller
and he's the same guy that gets up there and says you better watch your mouth to the president
elect that's how arrogant these rogue people are they think they're the dictators well
guess what you're not and if you ever even try to take us all down know this you're gonna
go down with us and they know that they all know this is an absolute to the end battle
that but the listeners need to get it and everybody else does this in the game that's
why that candy ass cavuto pissed his pants and rolled over and I'll say this is Sean
Hannity and I'll say this to Tucker Carlson and and and Dershowitz and people they got
courage by who the men are around here ladies and gentlemen that little weasel Shapiro and
all of them they want to throw up we'll be back with roger stone and we'll kind of let
him talk in zag I'm just really pissed but I'm leaving here soon but Zach's on lunch
he's got big intel ties into all this as well again our power went out earlier we're getting
back on sorry the tv affiliates but it's all coming back on we had a whole system a whole
new system going to stop this next time water is the single most important thing your body
needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands
have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration
systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to go burky
dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com you have been lied to my
name is Kevin ship I'm a former decorated CIA officer finally someone has come out and
written what I think is the best ex Mose on the shadow government ever we're in a constitutional
crisis and our government is now being run ruled by a shadow government we got to get
this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other people are this is
critical to get to read a good library to give you the courage to get them right now
at killing uncle sandbook dot com killing uncle sandbook dot com info wars life and info wars
life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary
type of vitamin D3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every
batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens
simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result
of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3 the research and development took over
two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3
product in the world read the facts and info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin
D3 not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function something the globalist are targeting visit info wars dot com today or
call 888-253-3139 we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together
with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us to mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing the shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds
from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports
the info war it is a classical 360 when this is the formula that I personally have been
taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it
comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want yourself you want your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy
and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can
be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's
time to change our bodies with z-field info wars life dot com frank in north carolina
thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah I just have to say something man it seems
like every time I turn on your broadcast your bracket it just gets old man I'm gonna shut
you down right now okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you understand they're
having congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand I'm ringing the
alarm if that was happening to anybody else I'd be freaked out I mean what's it gonna
take us being shut down is that what you want Frank you know what now I put him on pause
again hey Frank do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear
we're under attack we need your help as much begging as I do we can barely pay the bills
and grow in the face of this I'm not gonna just stop growth and let them start pushing
us backwards you understand I need your help Frank I need your help Frank go to info wars
store dot com right now and help fund the info war do you understand I need your help
Frank free press needs your help Frank you're listening to the Alex Jones show
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the Alex Jones show
thanks to soul to the good you know when they told Robert Plant that songs about devil worship
he got really pissed cause it's the opposite of that song against the devil I know Jimi
Page said the occult bought Elsa Crowley's Castle he said intriguing you know Robert
Plant having a son die shortly after that I think decided black magic wasn't too cool
and I've heard that let's just say directly from very close sources cause you see there's
wind on down the road. Our shadows taller than our souls. There's a lady we all know who shines
white light and wants to chose. We are broadcasting worldwide. I am Alex Jones, your host, going
into the enemy attack. I'm actually excited about it. I'm enjoying it, but I'm horrified
for the general public. Now, we've got Zach. We're going to right now. Roger's going to be
hosting for hours today here. He was already set up. We've got our backup power on, but we're
unable to connect to AT&T and a bunch of other telecoms we're on. So we'll be able to get video
back up on the satellites and streams up maybe the next hour or so. It's not just us. It's other
major hubs in Austin or down. We are up. So that was actually part of why we were down. A lot of
our power did kick back on, but we're getting consultants in and more is going in next month.
Roger Stone, unprecedented historic, attempted coup d'etat against the sitting
president and overthrow of an election. Unprecedented. What do we need to do? What is the
next action? You are the top story in the country. Shane Roger Stone is the main focus.
And this is unbelievable.
And Alex, it's terrifying. It really is to realize the way these federal prosecutors
in violation of the law in the Constitution, you just come in and turn your life completely upside
down, destroy people because they're in the way of the coup d'etat. My comrade and arms,
my colleague, Michael Caputo, who's appeared here on info wars numerous times,
as well as giving sage commentary for Fox. And occasionally even on CNN,
called before the Senate committee, his finances destroyed. He loses all of his clients.
Multiple death threats has to put in a new security system at his home.
We got guys on the roof with rifles. I mean, that's what you know what I've had to do.
You know who we go around with.
It's extraordinary. This guy has to dip into his children's college savings fund
to try to stay alive. Yesterday, a day before yesterday, pulled in by Robert Mueller.
We don't have the details of that, but Caputo's press standups, I think,
were very effective. He called it exactly.
Diane Feinstein can illegally leak testimony, no consequences.
An aide to Diane Feinstein can be actively involved in the creation of the phony dossier
accusing the president of having women urinate in his hotel room pays no penalty.
John Brennan buys on a U.S. Senate committee that's looking into torture by the CIA,
no consequences whatsoever. Also purges themselves about it when asked under
all circumstances. And they purges themselves, and you're going to be hosting continually.
Just to be clear here, and we're going to go to Zach here briefly, but ladies and gentlemen,
this is all cut and dry. They're making their move. They're not going to stop.
They're not going to back down. They're not going to quit. You advise the president,
of course they want to know about your private conversations there. They recorded the whole
damn thing. They're never about rushing it. But I know, don't trust them. They're never
going to back down. They're never going to stop. They're criminals. You must prosecute them.
They've got my phone calls, recorded the president. And I'm telling him every time,
sir, you don't have to call up and wish me and my wife that we're getting married.
Please. All I want to tell you is, you need to know they're never going to stop.
They're never going to quit because you're removing their coup. I know you know that,
but they hate your guts because you actually are self-made and came to power as a maverick.
They are the disgusting, arrogant mental patients and they hate you and they're going to tell you
that, you know, that this thing's going to be all over. It's lies. It's lies. Your lawyers are
lying to you. They are lying to you. Okay. Okay, Alex. Yes. Yes. I get it. Yeah. McCain. He's
not too good of a guy. Is he? Uh, but you know, and he just, he just, and now he understands
though, doesn't he, Roger? I really think he is, he is seeing the light. I think he's gotten his
sea legs as president. You got rid of HR McMaster. The national security advisor who was direct
by blind to George Soros came from a foundation financed by Soros. And by the way, I'm not bragging
the reason we got dead marks on our head. Roger and I, we blew that operation. We got that to
Trump. We exposed the whole thing. We blew McMaster out. No question. Once we went public with the
fact that he drunkenly at a public dinner that the president was a moron that he had the intelligence
of a, of a, of a child and that he McMaster, his job was to stop Donald Trump from blowing up the
earth. Hey, McMaster, Donald Trump just engineered peace in North Korea. Something Bill Clinton
told people was literally impossible, could not be done. Now the president's gotten rid of the
other globalist lightweight Rex Tillerson who, uh, who thought the our end deal was just peachy
keen. And now we're going to come back to you on that. Why they hate Trump because they're the
agents of chaos. They know they could fix things if they wanted to. They've been continuing this.
Roger, stay there. We'll put you on hold coming back. Zach, thanks for holding for 30 minutes.
We've had major technical difficulties, obviously with huge tornado storms, blasting everything
out. Our backup systems failing. We got engineers in here. Thanks to all the TV and radio
folks are staying with us. We're getting better systems in. We need listeners support, obviously,
to be able to do that. You've got big breaking news, but just on the ongoing coup against the
American people. This is a coup against America. That's what they should be. Clinton, Euler,
coup against America, deep state coup against America. What do you make of the current intel
and what's your information? And then we're going to get into the laser attacks on our aircraft and
more. Absolutely, Alex. Great to be back on with you. I mean, just an amazing time to be alive.
We are in the fight as we speak. We have volcanoes erupting, massive storms
moving across the U.S. Firefights going on inside of Arabia where the U.S. is protecting
their investments there. Listen, not to mention a coup d'etat on the White House. All while you
have that intellectual snake in the grass, pinch of pyro, slithering out there in the ether,
trying to stop free thinkers from perpetuating what's going to happen inevitably. There's
a real problem with the pinch of pyro thing, but there's so much news on the forefront that I got
to get into the intel. And I got to get back to pinch of pyro because that's a real problem. We
have a mutual POC there, a mutual point of contact with Joe Rogan. I'm calling out pinch of pyro right
now and I want him to hear this. It needs to be this right now. It needs to be Jones versus
Shapiro, a full debate in Joe Rogan as a moderator. Joe Rogan knows Ben very well. He respects Ben
and he is friends with you. That has to happen. It has to happen. That little intellectual snake
in the grass and I'll stop right there and we'll get into the intel. I just had to say that I'm
sorry. Go ahead. Okay. So what we have all while this coup d'etal and all hell is breaking loose
in the White House and around the world, we have the Pentagon confirming that Chinese have
fired lasers at US pilots and digit booty. Okay. This is the official line coming out of the White
House. You said that on air a couple of months ago. You said they were firing lasers at our
satellites and at our aircraft. So Dana White, the press secretary for the Pentagon releases
the information that the number of incidents is more than two, but less than 10 of the laser
fires that took place in recent weeks. How the hell is that possible? So we strike Syria over
false flags, but China's shooting down our airmen with lasers and nothing happens. Meanwhile,
sessions in the FBI is compromised in our country. What the hell is going on? Okay. The time for
actions now, it's all over. This is it. You have Tim Kardashian working with Jared Kushner now
with the full spectrum drama. This is, this is September 10th. This is Donald Rumpel explaining
that $2.3 million are, you know, just literally missing the exactly 2.3 trillion, excuse me,
2.3 trillion dollars are missing the day before 9 11 happened. Folks, this weekend is going to be
as active as they can be. And this is not all happening in the vacuum. This is coordinated.
This is a problem. This is a flanking maneuver. And we are under big attack here. This is unprecedented.
There's so much going on. What do you think? I think, I think I know there's been discussions
reportedly by the president if they try to against him to, and we know the military is already in
DC. I mean, I'm not looking for this. They're the ones that have a police state. Well, they want
to overthrow our elected government. I mean, I think like George Washington, Trump needs to
Trump needs to take the gloves off now against these coup plotters.
I don't think it for when I think it's happening. I think we're in it right now. I don't think it
we're so close. We're so close to the elephant. We don't know what we're looking at here. Oh, what's
going on right now? We're we're in it 100%. It's happening right now. And we're hinting at it.
We're getting out of this. They hinted that Tillerson has been removed. Of course, he's been
removed. But what about Sessions? What about Mueller? He is the chief executive. Period. Go in there and
fire them. This is our time of history. It has to be done. We'll be back with Zach Roger Stone
exclusively here with the big giant news here in the info wars bunker info wars.com news wars.com
fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today. You know if I tried
to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an info wars life. They take hours.
Michael's DX plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been
sold out for months. It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your
body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you,
we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering info wars store.com and remembering that it's not
just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so essential to
spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the second American revolution.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt
crisis, natural disasters or even simple power outages. Having a supply of storeable meals is
crucial. With info wars life selects storeable food. You can make sure you and your family are
ready for any emergency with drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full
year. There's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals including meals such as
traveler stew, home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
Info wars life selects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even
work great for camping. Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport
food for you and your loved ones trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure
you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars
life selects storeable foods. There's only one week left to get 50% off on super male vitality.
We only do this special once a year and it's now 50% off until May 7th. This is your chance to try
super male vitality that has thousands and thousands of five star reviews at powerreviews.com.
The reason super male and super female are so popular is because they work. We take known
documented herbs that superpower energy libido stamina and then we cold press them so they
don't lose their essence. Ladies and gentlemen, super male vitality and super female vitality is
now 50% off for a limited time and in fullwarstore.com. The real red pill that goes great with it is
also 50% off and when you get them together, it's free shipping as well. That's super male
vitality at 50% off at infowarslife.com or by calling toll three triple eight two five three
three one three nine super male vitality at 50% off until May 7th 2018.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
Hard to turn that off.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide.
Massive storm, pranatic forces, head Austin powers off in half the city for four o'clock.
We've got our backup power on, but we don't have connections out. It looks like AT&T and
Dwight's telecom and Google and I don't want to list all the chairs we've got. We got a lot of,
we got five systems, satellites, transceivers and a lot of other stuff.
I don't want to give everything away. We had two weeks to go across town to another studio.
Oh yeah, we know we're in a war, folks, but whatever, the town is down. So we don't have
all the connections right here that we do have the satellite on the roof. So we're on TV, but
it's just audio, but that'll be up soon. Roger Stone's here with us. If I see on the excited,
it's like the excitement of adrenaline and horror. Ever see something really horrible
happen? You're not happy about it, but you're, you have adrenaline pumping, you know, like your arms
giantly sliced open and blood spraying all over the walls. It's like you're kind of feel
interested, kind of feels cool. Not the pain, but wow, you're really alive. That's kind of what
this is like, because if America and the world, the whole world ought to be freaked out right now,
doesn't get upset about the rogue deep state completely out of control, illegally spying on
Trump, lying about everything, lying to Congress, doing everything they claimed Trump did in
triplicate, openly saying they want to get rid of free speech, have new elections, suspend everybody
that got elected last time, bring in federal control of elections. That's what Obama did.
And in this Republic, as we know it, going the way of Venezuela,
where they have, you know, multi-thousand percent inflation every week, that's what's
going to happen. So Roger Stone and Zach, both of you guys, Roger, if we don't respond now,
call Congress, call everywhere and get really, really upset and call talk radio and call C-span
and not be these Kavuto types that kind of heads their bets and go, oh, the Trump's kind of the
swamp. He didn't technically sign the most bills in the first year, but he got the biggest changes
and the biggest major bills and the most money change. So I would say Trump's done the most
in the last 100 years. But here it is, Fox News, federal judge accuses Mueller team of lying.
Oh, really? Mueller's famous for that. Trying to target Trump. He's a famous crook who goes out
and orders people to lie or they'll go to prison. He's been caught. A federal judge on Friday,
harshly rebuked special counsel Robert Mueller's team during a hearing for ex-Trump campaign
chairman Paul Manafort, suggesting they lied about the scope of the investigation
are seeking unfettered power. Federal judge, you want unfettered power. Another branch of
government. These are quotes. What do I say? Rogue, runaway. That means unfettered, untethered.
Rogue, out of control, their own power and are more interested in bringing down the president.
You don't really care about Mr. Manafort. U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis, the third,
he'll probably die on a plane crash or something, told Mueller's team, you really care about what
information Mr. Manafort can give you to lead you, Mr. Trump, an impeachment or whatever.
And the Democrats have said that and he goes into them lying to him. So people are getting it,
Roger. And I think that's what Zach was getting it without getting any classified stuff that
Trump's going to hit back now. He now knows that he was lied to or bamboozled by his
limp-rested, gilded counsel. And he now gets it. What do you say, Stone?
First of all, I think Zach's right on the money. The coup d'etat is afoot right now. It's going
down, even as we speak. If you look at this historically, what's different between this
coup d'etat and the one they staged in 1963 when they took down John Kennedy or the one they staged
in 1974 when they took down Richard Dixon? The difference, in all honesty, Alex, is info wars.
The difference is the internet. The difference is they no longer have the monopoly on communication
in the country that they enjoyed in 1963 and 1974. You couldn't find a newspaper or a television
report that would tell the truth about what was going on. Now, they've figured out that that's
the difference. So they want to dial it back, want to put the toothpaste back in the tube.
We've got to shut info wars down. We've got to get them off the internet. We've got to get all
conservatives, daily caller, Breitbart, Town Hall, Gateway Pundit. We've got to close them down.
They're dangerous. They're dangerous because speak the truth. And by the way, we need daily caller
and Gateway Pundit and WorldNet Daily and Breitbart. They've done it some. Every day,
come to info wars defense. They've got all their whisper campaigns out about don't support us,
we're bad line about what we say, all this other crap, you know, threatening people, threatening
Project Veritas to not be associated with us, political, all this. And then they've got a
talking point out. Jones must be censored. He's criminal. He's like video games causing mass
shootings. That's what they're saying. He's got to be taken off the air. They have professors
all over the news. I mean, it's in my local paper everywhere. It's all the same talking point
that we must be taken off the air because Jones can mind control people. It actually says it in
the Slate article. It says Jones is able to take control of their minds with archetypal manipulation.
And we need a bipartisan effort to quote, shut down free speech. An approach needs to go beyond
censorship and snopes fact checking saying they're the arbitrar, but completely shutting us down.
And so many of these professors are antifa. I don't know if this guy is, but he sure fits the
bill. It's purportedly his picture. This professor, Alan Linovitz, assistant professor of James
Madison University and the author of The Gluten Lie. Again, it's all about how they control
reality. And now they're saying a heartbeat isn't live. Planned Parenthood said so. And there
is no mother and father. And we got a professor lady at UT saying masculinity doesn't exist.
Men don't exist. This is a total gaslighting mind control with them saying we're going to shut your
speech down if you don't agree with us. And they picked info wars as the scarlet letter book to
burn first. I am honored, Roger. I know you are. Let's get Zach's take on this. Zach, you say the
coup's afoot. We know it's afoot against Trump. They admitted it's in all the documents, the fake
dossier, they're accelerating and all. But how about countering them? They're trying to destroy
our elected president. They're trying to say that he can be indicted and removed for that by Mueller
himself outside of impeachment. You've seen Brennan and all up on TV six months ago saying he'll be
gone by December. He's not gone. He's hanging on and getting stronger. And the economy's coming
back. We're getting major peace deals. And you're so pissed that you had your foot on the country
for decades, sucking us dry to build your world government. You were all hired by foreign megabags
because you're a bunch of America hating pseudo intellectual trash. And now you're getting your
asses politically kicked and you're crapping your doors all over the place because we're awake in
the sleeping giant and you don't like it. Well, guess what? You're going to lose any way you slice
at your dumb bastards. Go ahead, Zach. Absolutely. And you're on fire. Roger's on fire. What just
happened was the cornerstone of the entire war here. You see what they're operating under is a
collage of chaos tactic. So many, so many stories that happen multiple times a day over the weeks,
over the years that you cannot focus or keep up with any information apocalypse, information
apocalypse. What Roger just did and what we do on info wars all the time is tied together in a
perpetual timeline. It's all tied together because, you know, you could focus on what they want to
keep you in the moment confused. I mean, that's what Gruber said. It's all about confusing us
fog of war, but we've got the enemy battle map. We're not even looking at what they're projecting.
We've got their battle map. And that's what they hate. Exactly. This is so we could we could say
like, this is not about Mark, excuse me. This is not about Iran. This is about Mars, meaning
this is about attacking Elon, attacking the human evolution, attacking where we're going,
playing this other game. This is already an AI system that made the decision to have a post human
world. And Trump has jumped in with others and are saying, no, we're not doing it at the elite level.
Oh, you know, none of this happens in a vacuum. None of this happens in singular movements.
This is all connected. We've already forgotten about Vegas. They roll parkland out. So what
happened to Vegas? That's just that just is unsolved. No big deal. We know what happened to
do with the bodies. Now they're having firefights there inside Arabia. And it's going to get us
into war with Iran. And they don't want us to question the next full flag. That's what they're
really pissed about. It's why they said, I said, Parkland didn't happen. Well, I didn't say that.
And this is all tied together. This is Donald Trump's life work and the coup d'etat is there.
And this is the only chance that we have a second American revolution because if not,
globalism will be I think Americans should all go to their capitals. Don't wait live
stream at one person than two than 10. Everyone today should just go to their state capitals.
You know, in fact, I'm going to go to the state capital this afternoon. I'm going to go out there,
uh, at like four or five o'clock. I'll let people know. And just whether it's a 50 of us at first
of that 100 next, you're not taking our president. You're not putting Nancy from the street. You're
not shutting our speech down. Everybody should call in to see span call talk radio and say this
is a slow motion to going into high gear. Roger Stone, what else do we need to do to just get
really aggressive? The president has the power. That's what freaks them out. People need to realize
that if it's info wars today, if it's Alex Jones today, that they silent Sean Hannity, Tucker
Carlson, Laura Ingram, right? And only Matt Drudge has come to info wars main defense. He gets it.
Why don't these people get it? I'm not trying to be bigger than any of them. I want to defeat the
globalist. Sean Hannity just needs to recognize you don't have to agree with Alex Jones on everything.
But if they get Alex today, Sean, they're coming for you tomorrow. Wake up. Wake up. I like Sean
Hannity. I think he's fearless. I think I like Sean Hannity, too. I like them all. I'm saying is
they're coming for everybody. But they see, they think this is just a fight against us.
They think, well, info wars, you know, they're dispensable. No, we aren't. We're just the first
one on their tick list. They're going to shut down Fox. They're going to take down Tucker. They're
going to take down Sean Hannity. They're going to take down. And by the way, you're the guy that
told Trump this was always going to happen and the obstruction crap. And now you're the main target
of Mueller. The main target of Mueller is on with us now. But they don't want him to have a voice.
We'll be right back to finish up with Zach and then Roger takes over. You deserve a deep restful
sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural
ingredients such as valerian root extract, l tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness. But with the rapid speed of
life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known
ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the
day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other
leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of
knockout. Head on over to info wars life.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's info wars life.com.
I was just about to walk out of the studio to pick my children up and I got some bad news. For the
second time in the five and a half year history of survival shield x2, our flagship product,
we are having supply chain problems and this may be the last batch of this. We have deep earth
crystal source that's so pure that it actually turns into purple gas in the atmosphere. And so in
our own search to get the purest form, we discovered that oil companies and gas drilling
companies had a byproduct that they were selling to pharmaceutical companies and also drug makers
that they used to make drugs. And once they figure out there's a market, they start jacking up the
price. But we're offering it still 25% off until it sells out. Hopefully just like the last time
this happened a few years ago, it's not an issue and we do get more. But right now we are not able
to secure the crystals that produce the purest iodine in the world. But what it does is for
stamina, libido, focus, energy is really amazing. Survival Shield x2 at m4works.com and 4slife.com.
It's Alex Jones.
Changing history.
Clutch bringing us in. Roger Stone is on phone. He was set to already host today. I had a bunch of
corporate and family things to take care of. But when this all happened, I came into the show
because he can't be via his nice HD studio in Florida. He's on the phone, but we're going to
dial it in. Let's get Owen Troyer in here to take over. So we got HD. Our storms hit Texas. We're
getting booted back up. Thanks to all the TV and radio affiliates. We're getting even more redundant
systems put in. Oh, look, the skype's up. They're starting to get it set up right now. So he'll be
ready soon. But I guess that's not going out yet. So it's not ready. Pardon me. Owen is in Dallas
the IRA event. Good God. Well, we can have him. We'll have him pop in then too. Okay, Zach, finish
up as Roger's taking over in the next segment. We really appreciate you. I don't want to seem happy
about everything that's going on. I'm really upset, but I understand that the war is here.
It's now anything else you'd like to add, Zach? Absolutely. I mean, that's that's the tactic,
the collage of chaos and the reason you're being attacked, the reason Roger Stone specifically
is being attacked in the Truth and Liberty movement is because they're operating under a
collage of chaos and we have the timeline. We could place everything on a timeline,
tie it all together, prove it to the public and show them what's going on because with the
instant gratification, the attention span of the society, this is what they're hoping for. So we
keep on reminding and red-pulling individuals. So this is why you all... Is it an attention span?
An attention span is like consciousness. Without an attention span, there's no timeline,
and those of us that have an attention span are the enemy. 100%. I mean, with this whole thing
in North Korea, peace on the Korean peninsula, it's the most sensational story in world history
for 50 years, 50 to 100 years. But we have to remember this. Donald Trump, this is his life's
work. Donald Trump, before he was president of the United States, was running a reality show in a
business empire. During that reality show, he was running the Celebrity Apprentice and in 2009,
who do you have on as a guest? Dennis Rodman. People need to understand this. Dennis Rodman
was influential and important in this North Korea deal. As stupid as that sound, as crazy as it
sounds, it actually happened. Okay. And why would he bring Dennis Rodman on the Celebrity Apprentice?
He had this in the works. He knew he was going to run. Dennis Rodman was North Korea, what Kanye
West is to black America. This is his life's work. It's very strategic. It doesn't happen in a vacuum.
And he is under attack. This is our only chance. And for all the hate, for all the criticism,
for all that's going on, we need to double down and support Donald Trump because we will never
have a shot like we do right now. We have got, got, got to go for broke right now. Period.
They are going for broke. And again, I was, I didn't understand them, the Rodman thing that
separate groups were using him, that he actually did a good job. I thought he was just there liking
the dictator. We're all exponentially learning. And now we know that Trump has been plotting this
for decades, hoping somebody else would turn the country around. And now this has happened. I've
confirmed it with the people that were involved that got Trump to run. And you know, it's like
he said, you come highly recommended and I will not let you down. He was like to our audience
reporting for duty like a soldier, absolutely committing to this, but he has been hamstrung
by his lawyers and the lack of capability to find good personnel that have his metal.
He has been hamstrung by the entire timeline, the momentum of all of the events of the deep
state since John F Kennedy. Okay. Since that moment, he is dealing with all of the force of that.
So we need to double down. We need to realize that it's not just, it's not just individual attacks.
This is all interconnected. And the reason what they're doing and what they're trying to stifle
is us going to the stars. It's no, it's no coincidence that while you're under attack,
while Trump's under attack, while Roger Stone, they're attacked, Elon Musk is even under attack
by the mainstream. They're driving down his stocks right now because they want to break away
civilization in their own admission. Elon Musk says they want a world government,
where they merge the machines and kill everybody. That's the plan. That's why this professor
and all these other papers say, we want in-game removed from the web.
Why do they want in-game blueprint for global enslavement removed?
That's their kryptonite. This is it. I mean, it's the timeline. They're operating under
ecological chaos, which is very effective. And by the way, you notice the film is a timeline.
That's why they got so pissed. I later learned they wanted me to come to Oxford because of in-game.
That was privately why they said, we have some people want to talk to you, but I later learned
from a Hollywood person who those people were, they were going to try to co-op me
because they were asking, how do you know the timeline? I could see the timeline.
Exactly. And it happens just in perfect timing. When you speak about the 5G,
when we know what technology is doing, this is all planned. They need us to disengage
in what InfoWars does and the truth elicits.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion, visit InfoWarsLife.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for years
with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable, great-tasting
multivitamin formula available. Vitamin Mineral Fusion Drink Mix at InfoWarsLife.com is loaded
with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely
needs. In the history of InfoWarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, Super Metal Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum
standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in
Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means
it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's InfoWarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
I don't want to be in your prison plan at hell.
It ain't no mystery. Why I've been misery.
Yeah, they call us.
Unholy living dead.
Put us in the pretty pinch.
British hell.
Yep, global dungeon. I don't want to be in your new world order hell.
All right, finishing up with Zach and then Roger Stone's taking over. We almost got our connections.
The Skype hooked up with the whole network. We're on TV. We're on radio. We've got it all. We had most
of our backup find out how it was big forms. We have even more redundant backups, system-wide
systems that are all computerized so that just when the generators kick on, it still cuts all the
systems off and then a bunch of other systems got cut off. So I apologize for everybody on that here,
but we have mega massive news breaking. We started the new hour just Zach real fast.
And then we'll go to Roger. Zach, just recapping. How would you quantify what we're currently under?
We're under the Clinton globalist deep state Mueller coup against America.
Is that an accurate statement?
That's 100% it. And it goes even deeper than that with dug in a generational chain of commands there.
And what Donald Trump is doing right now is attempting to launch the Second American Revolution,
but it's not easy. All the personal stuff stateside is going on. Meanwhile, we have Chinese military shooting down
U.S. airmen in Djibouti. I mean, we have peace on the Korean Peninsula. We have everything going on in the Middle East.
This is a collage of chaos. And that's what they're operating under. They must keep us distracted.
And the reason you're being attacked and the reason we're being attacked is because we're connecting the timeline.
If we understand the timeline, we could realize the future. That's it. Period. That's what's going on.
And we are in the fight. It is as serious as it's ever been in human history. Everything has reached the moment right now.
And when we think about timeline, we are able to influence the timeline by coming histories actors
and by actually being motivated individuals is in all the Pentagon documents.
And the Pentagon has been ordered to target those individuals. It's like Clapper said that time in Brennan.
Oh, we're not. No, it was Hayden. They had it in us at the time. He said, oh, we're not interested in terrorists.
We're interested in interesting people. And so they don't want us influencing the future. It's the war for the future.
The book CNN doesn't want me to publish. So, I mean, they're openly saying, don't publish his book.
Don't listen to him. They said it's not enough to ban Alex Jones. His memory is too dangerous.
I guess that's the signal they're getting ready to kill me. And that's all over newspapers.
We must tell the children, no, Alex Jones. I mean, this is such a quantum insanity, which it means they're going for Complete Broke, Zach.
Absolutely. And what did the Tesla roaster that was launching the orbit stay on the screen there? Don't panic. We are in it.
We must we must breathe deep and focus right now. We are in it. This is destiny. It had to happen.
I would prefer a different life right now, but we can't do that.
The globalist, I agree. Don't the globalist realize, though, that even if they're able to take us out, that they're done?
You've been saying it for years. Ideas are bulletproof. And the fact that we're doing what we're doing is incredible.
I'm honored to be here. But we have to, we have got to compile the timeline in real time. We have got to give it to the people.
We have to continue to double down and support our president and really get through them because he's in our major attack right now.
The timeline is critical because they're operating under the collage of chaos. That's what it is. That's a complete tactic.
Every single day, something happens. While real-world things are happening, you can never focus on one thing. You have to keep this late-spinning.
That's what they're hoping for. That is what they're hoping for. But this is the only chance we got. We have got to double down and support Donald Trump here.
Thank you. God bless you, Zach. I don't know if we have a Skype ready to pop through. We're not streaming video yet up to the TV stations, are we?
Nobody. He's ready.
He's ready via Skype or he's ready via phone?
Skype.
All right, let's bring Roger in. But Roger, you're going to be all over the news today on the show. Are you going to really wear a 20-gallon cowboy hat today?
Well, today was supposed to be my day off, Alex. I was going to take my godson to the beach. But when I got the call this morning that you needed me, here I am.
I'm wearing my Trigger the Lib Tards t-shirt, which, as you know, is available at the infowars.com store. This is about my favorite of all the t-shirts. But yeah, I'm going to wear my cowboy hat because I'm not ashamed.
I may be in Florida, but my heart's in Texas.
Hey, we love you. I'm teasing you. I knew that you were going to take your grandson to the beach. What a cutie he is. And hang out with a wife and family.
And I know you're ignoring a lot of the mainstream media, but I mean, you're the top story right now in the country, in this whole coup.
I mean, this is unbelievable, Roger. Let's stand in the cameras. Thanks. This is unbelievable. I mean, they are saying you're the main target now of all this crap.
Federal judges for those who just joined us are coming out saying Mueller, quote, lied that they're involved in a runaway operation of, quote, unfettered power in a coup.
They kept judges saying they're launching coups. That's Fox News. So this is damn serious, man. These people are crazy. The crimes they've committed, everything's going on.
So thank you for giving us the exclusive. You're about to host for hours here because I've got an emergency situation I've got to take care of.
You're about to take over here, compadre, but just go ahead and just break down the magnitude of what we're facing.
You know, Alex, it's really heartening that every once in a while there's a federal judge who actually is committed to his duty and the U.S. Constitution, who has some integrity.
The judge in the District of Columbia, who is sitting on the Manafort case there, is a stooge for the government.
He will do anything the federal prosecutors ask him to. He will turn a blind eye to their willful violation of the U.S. Constitution and the civil liberties that are guaranteed there.
Now, in the Commonwealth of Virginia, you have a courageous federal judge who's prepared to speak out and slap down Mueller.
So when will they suicide him? When will he mysteriously die in a car crash or an airplane accident? I give enormous credit to the judge.
I must say, you're absolutely right. There's nothing like the experience of waking up and finding out that you're the top story on the Drudge Report.
I have huge respect and affection for Matt Drudge, but he did kind of screw up my breakfast.
The irony of this is the story cited says that the focus of Mueller's, they say he's sharply focused on my relationship with former Manafort aide Rick Gates,
a man I virtually had no meaningful substantive interaction with through all of 2016.
That probably means they've got him to roll, though, and he's going to make up that, you know, you had flying monkeys coming out your rear end.
Well, you know, I did have to think about it. Since the article says that they are focusing on dinners with an S between Gates and I,
I had to stop and think, have I ever had dinner with this guy? No, actually, I did. I attended a dinner with several others.
Mike Caputo, John Haggerty, guys who triumphed in the New York primary, swept the New York primary for Donald Trump.
It was supposed to be a meeting with Paul Manafort, who canceled at the last minute because he had to do something else and send his deputy.
The topic on the table wasn't Russian collusion. The topic was the makeup of the New York delegation to the Republican National Convention.
There's no collusion here. Is dinner with this guy a crime? Then they want to know about my meetings with Matt with Gates at Trump Tower in 2016.
Guess what, Alex? There were no meetings. None whatsoever. Nada. Zero. So this is an extension of the witch hunt.
It's an effort to smear me. It's an effort to drive me into bankruptcy. I don't like coming on infowars and having to beg.
I don't love having to send out hundreds of thousands of emails and post on my personal Facebook page that I'm facing a financial crisis.
But Mueller and his leaked investigation have ruined my livelihood. They've destroyed my ability to make a living.
Let's be clear, though, we're making history, and the Founding Fathers lost everything they had, but I know you're happy to go through the fight.
People should buy your new book that's coming out. They should go donate at StoneColdTruth.com.
Now, you've only got three or four lawsuits. I've got like nine, and I absolutely agree, and you work for infowars while we're all being targeted here.
And I haven't even plugged in an hour and 15 minutes on air, so you're right. When we come back, let's plug StoneColdTruth.com with cell phones so they can support you, and then let's talk about infowarsstore.com, T-shirts, books, films, incredible supplements, giant deals.
I mean, we don't have George Soros. We have you folks. We don't have billionaires funding, which isn't a bad thing, but that's what, you know, folks like Glenn Beck and other people, Shapiro, have.
We're funded by you. And it just pisses me off with Shapiro trying to, you know, get in our business and make sure we don't have guests and stuff.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the Outleft Sanctuary State until one day I chose to lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden, and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking ogres.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our BlackRifleRealEstate team is here to help.
We're BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
To order, call 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. HBXTrack.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
There's only one week left to get 50% off on supermail vitality. We only do this special once a year and it's now 50% off until May 7th.
This is your chance to try supermail vitality that has thousands and thousands of 5-star reviews at powerreviews.com.
The reason supermail and superfemale are so popular is because they work.
We take known documented herbs that superpower energy, libido, stamina, and then we cold press them so they don't lose their essence.
Ladies and gentlemen, supermail vitality and superfemale vitality is now 50% off for a limited time and in fullwarstore.com.
The real red pill that goes great with it is also 50% off and when you get them together, it's free shipping as well.
That's supermail vitality at 50% off at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free, triple 82533139.
Supermail vitality at 50% off until May 7th, 2018.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine Flora Life Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Better turn me loose! You better set me free!
Ladies and gentlemen, I admire Kanye West for his courage standing with Trump and the reboot of America.
I admire Roger Stone. I admire all of you. I admire the Sproog. I admire my family for standing strong with us.
And I've done an hour and 20 minutes of transmission and now it's time to plug.
We need everybody to give us the support.
If you support America, if you're standing against Mueller and the whole Clinton crime syndicate coup,
InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLife.com are the main sites. InfoWarsStore.com is the main site.
InfoWarsLife.com takes you right to the award-winning supplements where we go out and say,
What is the best in the industry, the most award-winning? Let's either private label that and then lower prices.
20-30% is our formula. And then, sometimes even more.
And then, how can we take the best-selling formulas and make them even stronger?
Like, we're coming out soon with alpha products that are going to be unbelievable.
So, just get ready, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to have Brainforce that's in a single serving package that's at next level that is going to be
three times the serving of the leading competitor, but the competitor has the best stuff.
And it's going to be the same price.
So, that's what we do. Alpha powers are the newest stamina, energy, libido product.
It's powdered. It's organic. But it's not cold pressed like supermil. Supermil's excellent.
There's not as much of the compounds per capita, but it's stronger because it's cold pressed and has whatever that natural function is with the other oils it's with.
Like anybody will tell you, marijuana, the bud, is different than an extract of it.
So, that's not what I'm saying. It's marijuana, but you know what I'm saying.
So, it's the real essence of cold press, truly cold press.
It takes like five times more of the herbs to make it.
So, it's stronger in its concentrate and live, like wine, but it's not as strong.
Alpha powers, just, I said, I want whatever's the known, strongest, best, seen as safe, but blow you away.
And we went to four different major groups and it all came together. They said, this is it.
Other people sell it for like a hundred dollars. When we sell it for 50 bucks, it's a great deal.
It's half off right now, like what, 25 bucks or something when you get it with supermil vitality.
But be careful with this stuff.
X2 is selling out. It's available at infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple-A 253-3139.
But people ask, how am I so excited?
My wife gets it and she's like, man, they're on TV saying that you need to be shut off the air.
They're on air saying you're a criminal.
George Soros group's suing you, Hillary suing you, all this. Why do you get so energized by it?
Because these are the bad guys.
So like if I was a World War II soldier and I was flying bombing missions over Germany,
and they picked me to be like Captain America on the German side and called me, you know, GI dumbass or something.
I wouldn't think I was a dumbass. I wouldn't feel bad about myself.
If I was chosen to be the Nazi kicking boy, I'd feel pretty damn good because they're the Nazis.
So I don't care what they say. I don't care what they do. I committed to life for this and I'm not going to stop.
And quite frankly, I'm alive, baby.
It's not about being macho. It's not about being, oh, I'm so tough. I'll do daredevil stuff.
I don't jump out of airplanes for fun.
You know, when I was younger, I've done things like that.
I don't do the thrill seeking. I don't drive my car 170 miles an hour anymore, not saying I ever do.
Because I don't take those undue risks for nothing. I take them for my children and the future and everything.
And they go, well, they could come after your kids. They're coming after everybody with the 5G, the GMO.
The only way out of this is standing up and speaking out.
And they want to take an example of us and say, look how we destroy Alex Jones.
But they're out of bullets. They've said all that same crap about Trump and people are breaking their conditioning there.
It's happening with us, but it's not about a popularity contest at the end of the day for me.
It's about victory. And these globalists are so bad, it's got to be done.
There's a full scale coup going on.
So thank you for your financial support. Take advantage of those big sales over the weekend.
Infowarsstore.com, Infowarslife.com.
DNA Force is now back in stock. It's almost six months being sold out.
It's DNA Force Plus stronger, way stronger.
Well, there's like 30% more of the PQQ, the CoQ10, all of it.
And we did a year long contract.
I'm betting that if I sell it for less, we'll sell a lot more.
So I did a year contract, bought a lot more, lower in the price.
And people are buying the same amount as when it was $150.
Okay, whatever, fine. I thought you'd want something better at a lower price, but whatever.
It's the same thing I never did.
It's stronger, it works great, and it's less price.
Roger, you take over and do a few minutes of plugging for yourself here and then come back.
We've got our crew at the NRA show in Dallas.
They're going to be piping in your co-host, Owen Schroyer, for the War Room.
You've got so much to break down and run over here.
You're going to take over, my friend, infowars.com, newswars.com, prisonplanet.com.
We are back up on the live streams right now, my friend.
So thanks to all the TV and radio affiliates.
Roger Stone, the number one target of the Mueller and the globalist deep state coup against America.
You are now the number one target even eclipsing Trump.
And so I'm a little bit jealous. Go ahead.
You're John Hancock's now bigger than mine.
I don't think that's the case.
Alex, I do want to say something that you alluded to.
The best thing about the infowars products is when you stack them.
I find, for example, combining the red pill with Brain Force Plus, a body-mind combination,
really gives you peak performance, peak energy, peak acuity, peak mental energy and clarity.
And I've compared these products with the competitors whose names we don't want to mention.
Whole Foods.
Our supplements are better.
The quality of the ingredients are higher.
The volume is more.
The prices are lower.
The Mind Body Challenge Pack is my all-time favorite so far.
Now, I also, though, I have tried the Alpha Power stacked with Super Male Vitality.
Known around the office as the Michael Zimmerman combination.
This one is extraordinary.
I hate this word, but the synergy between these products is extraordinary
because they have two completely different essentially delivery systems.
You cannot find supplements of this quality at this price
where you're also supporting the fight for a free press.
And you're financing the defense in the multiple lawsuits that infowars is facing,
which are baseless, bogus, meritless, frivolous, if you will, designed to smear us,
designed to shut us down, designed to give the globalists and the tech left
the phony rationale to take us off YouTube, take us off Facebook, silence us.
We scare the crap out of the globalists.
Why? Because when you're not financed by a big corporate sponsor, our information is unfettered.
No one says to Alex Jones, you can't cover that.
You can't say that.
You can't expose that.
We here at Infowars, we go where the facts lead us.
And if you're not in the market for one of our cutting edge nutraceuticals,
you're not interested in a terrific book, for example,
The Iconic Making of the President 2016 by the New York Times bestselling author Roger Stone.
Well, then consider going to the Infowars site and just making a generous contribution.
$25, $50, $100. Anything you give helps fuel the fight for freedom.
Hello, patriots. My name is Todd Savage, founder of Black Rifle Real Estate.com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out-left sanctuary state until one day I chose to lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden, and homeschool our children
without the tyranny of the nanny state looking ogres.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our Black Rifle Real Estate team is here to help.
Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance.
All to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia
to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding
until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom
is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of proof.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
I was just about to walk out of the studio to pick my children up and I got some bad news.
For the second time in the five and a half year history of Survival Shield X2, our flagship product,
we are having supply chain problems and this may be the last batch of this.
We have deep earth crystal source that's so pure that it actually turns into purple gas in the atmosphere.
So in our own search to get the purest form, we discovered that oil companies and gas drilling companies
had a byproduct that they were selling to pharmaceutical companies and also drug makers that they used to make drugs.
And once they figure out there's a market, they start jacking up the price.
But we're offering it still 25% off until it sells out.
Hopefully, just like the last time this happened a few years ago, it's not an issue and we do get more.
But right now, we are not able to secure the crystals that produce the purest iodine in the world.
But what it does is for Stamina, libido, focus, energy is really amazing.
Survival Shield X2 at infowarstore.com and ForgeLife.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top Stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarstore.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself.
And then rest assured, you're fighting the Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarstore.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities,
and it's made in the USA. Get your Alpha Power today at infowarstore.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
The Alex Jones Show.
Because there is a war on for your mind.
I remember when, I remember, I remember when I lost my mind.
Welcome back. You're on The Alex Jones Show here at Info Wars,
and I'm pinch-hitting as your host today, I'm Roger Stone.
An extraordinary day in which a federal judge finally puts down Robert Mueller
and strips bare the real agenda of the special counsel.
He's not interested in the alleged crimes of Paul Manafort.
He's interested in anything he can do to take down Donald Trump through an impeachment or otherwise.
He's interested in undoing the results of the last free election this country may ever have
if the globalists get their way.
See, I don't think people understand that the trilateral commission
and the neocon two-party duopoly that have dominated American politics and government,
essentially for the last 30 years, had everything neatly arranged.
The presidential election was going to be Hillary Clinton versus Jeb Bush.
Two families that I revealed in my books, The Clinton's War on Women
and the Bush crime family work closely together in a criminal syndicate to enrich themselves.
You see, the globalist cabal really has no ideology.
They're not really communists.
They're just interested in control, power, and wealth for themselves and their cronies.
They're just interested in erasing our borders, not just ours, but the borders of every nation in the world.
They want one world government with no constitutional guarantees of civil liberties or free expression
or any modicum of personal freedom.
They want controlled economies.
They want controlled personal behavior.
They want to strip us of our national identity.
They want to strip us of our national sovereignty.
And above all, they want to lower over us a small handful of billionaire bankers stripping away our very freedoms.
And along comes a reality TV star, a real estate developer from New York City.
Well, let's face it, we all know Donald Trump's not really going to run.
This is a publicity stunt, they told us.
It's just Trump addicted to reading his name in the newspaper.
And then when he got in the race, they said, well, he's not going to have any money.
He won't put any of his own money in, but then he put in 10 million.
Well, then they said, this guy can't win.
You've seen all the polls.
Hillary Clinton's got this thing in the bag.
They were so confident that their backup plan, their insurance policy, just in case something went wrong,
was memorialized in government texts and emails on government servers, on government cell phones.
No reason to worry about those ever becoming public.
Hillary will be able to run a cover up just like Obama was unconcerned about his unfettered violation of the Constitution
when he approved the surveillance of the Republican candidate for president.
Stop and think about that for a moment.
Watergate, we were told, was the greatest constitutional crisis in our history.
Six men, partisans for Richard Nixon, broke into the Watergate and attempted to place bugs, which never actually worked,
and they were caught.
They were caught because the CIA learned about the rogue operation and infiltrated it.
We now know that at least three of the Watergate burglars were still actively on the payroll of the CIA
and were reporting to their case officers.
Nixon's crime ended the war in Vietnam.
He opened the door to China.
He reached a strategic arms limitation with the Soviets.
He desegregated the public schools.
My God, the man's a peacemaker.
We've got to get rid of him.
And they did.
As I said in the earlier segment, you can look at the coup d'etat that went down in America in 1963,
when Lyndon Baines Johnson, working with the Central Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon,
the organized crime and big Texas oil to snuff out the life and the presidency of John Fitzgerald Kennedy.
I interviewed a Dallas Times Herald reporter who said that the FBI came to their newsroom,
ripped her copy out of the typewriter, and rewrote it to reflect that Lee Harvey Oswald, allegedly a communist,
acted alone.
Then, of course, in 1974, we had the second American coup, the takedown of President Richard M. Nixon.
The Washington Post, the New York Times led the way.
They didn't tell us that the Pentagon had the President of the United States under surveillance early in his presidency.
They didn't tell us that the Central Intelligence Agency had infiltrated the Watergate burglar team
to ensure that the break-in would be botched and the men would be arrested.
They didn't tell us that the Watergate special prosecutor was having illegal,
expatriate conversations with Federal Judge John Sirica to ensure that the Watergate burglars couldn't get a fair trial
and any possibility of appeal had been cooked in advance.
What's the difference between 1963, 1974, and today?
Here's the single most important thing.
Infowars and the Infowar, the rise of the Internet.
The fact that ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, yes, some on Fox, they've lost their monopoly on political discourse.
In 1963, there was no media outlet in the country who had any opinion other than the fact that Lee Harvey Oswald
was a lone communist who acted alone to kill JFK.
In 1974, there was no newspaper, no media outlet in the country that would report about the CIA's infiltration of the Watergate break-in
and the fact that Judge John Sirica and Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski, like Archibald Cox for him,
should have been disbarred for their illegal gaming of the legal system against Richard Dixon.
Today, however, in the attempted coup to take down Donald Trump and restore the trilateral commission and globalist control of our government,
they are thwarted by a robust, vibrant alternative media.
And yes, Infowars is the flagship. Infowars is the tip of the spear.
That's why it nauseates me when I hear punks like Ben Shapiro, a globalist who thought the Iraq War was peachy keen,
telling others don't appear on Infowars. They're dangerous. Well, we are dangerous.
We're dangerous to the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. We're dangerous to their coup d'etat plan.
I'm Roger Stone. You're on the Alex Jones Show, and I'll be right back.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
I'm so excited. The new product at InfowarsLife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real Red Bull.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at InfowarsStore.com and your purchase, fugs the operation.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfowarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfowarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from InfowarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfowarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Relentlessly attacking the power structure, you're listening to Alex Jones.
Breaking news here on Infowars. In the Miami Congressional District, challenger Soraya Fass has qualified for the Republican primary against leading, never-Trump-er, Country Club Republican,
and certified Trump-hater, Carlos Kerbello. This will be a barn burner face.
Kerbello is a disgrace to the Republican Party. He is a disgrace to government, usually lining his pockets as a lobbyist.
He has made his unfettered hatred of Donald Trump in our reform agenda his calling card.
This cock has to go down. Congratulations to Soraya Fass for qualifying for the primary.
She considered looking at the daunting, overwhelming odds dropping out. She told me she prayed to our Lord Jesus, and he showed her the way.
With Jesus Christ, folks, nothing is impossible. Nothing. Congratulations, Soraya Fass.
Also, some breaking news here. I can reveal for the first time that former New York U.S. attorney, attorney for the Southern District,
Bahara, launched with federal judge Kimba Woods only 10 days ago. Because Bahara is a paid consultant to the Mueller inquiry, this lunch is improper.
There will be bar complaints against both Bahara and Judge Woods, but the appropriate course of action would be for Senator Chuck Grassley to bring Judge Woods into an open hearing
and ask her what she thinks she's doing. Is it coincidental that after Bahara, a man who has been indisputably caught illegally leaking grand jury testimony to the media by a federal judge
cooking a case with Judge Woods? Is it coincidental that Woods would subsequently deny all of Trump lawyer Michael Cohn's motions before her court?
You know Kimba Woods, don't you? She's the one who had a particularly close personal relationship with Bill Clinton. In fact, Bill Clinton tried to appoint her U.S. attorney general until we learned
that she was evading the law by illegally paying a domestic. No Kimba, we've got your number. No matter how this goes down, you will face disciplinary charges before the bar and before I'm finished impeachment
before the U.S. Senate. Zach said it in the first segment. This is a war. The coup d'etat is on now. The coup d'etat is a foot. They want to rumble, but the only thing they must do to succeed
is to shut info wars down, to take away our guns, to strip us of our Second Amendment rights. With no firearms and no voices, only then can they succeed. That's why they are so maniacal about repealing the Second Amendment.
It was funny to watch an undistinguished judge, John Paul Stevens, a stain on the history of the Supreme Court, appointed to the court by the single dumbest president in American history, Gerald Ford,
a man who literally could not chew gum and walk at the same time, a president whose IQ, if it were one point lower, you would have to water and classify him as a plant.
And Stevens said that it was time to repeal the Second Amendment. Judge, I know you're dumb, but try to listen carefully. That requires a majority vote of both houses of Congress and ratification by a majority of the states.
Not happening, libtard. Go back to your ivory tower and the ignominious disgrace that you bear as the single dumbest member of the US Supreme Court in history.
Tonight, I have the privilege of joining my friend Tucker Carlson on his show, on Fox, to discuss this incredible CNBC fake news story by Brian Fake News Schwartz that says that I am now sharply the focus of the Mueller
investigation due to my close relationship with former Manafort aid Rick Gates, a relationship that literally almost doesn't exist. He wants to probe the meetings between Gates and I, except for there weren't any.
He wants to probe our dinners with an S. I attended one dinner with him to discuss the makeup of the New York delegation to the Republican National Convention.
Can you say fake news? This is an extraordinary smear. Now, my friend Matt Drudge put it at the top of his story. Even Anderson Cooper has asked me to come on tonight and that may happen too.
Because I will avail myself of any forum to expose what's going on here. It's a coup, folks, an unconstitutional illegal act to try to reverse the results of the last presidential election.
The globalists, the trilateralists, the neocons took it so hard in the keester. They are so bent out of the shape about this brash upstart billionaire who actually believes in American exceptionalism, who actually believes that we can have a stronger, more vibrant economy.
3% economic growth under Donald Trump. The best Barack Obama could do was an average over eight years of a point and a half. 10% unemployment under Barry, pardon me, Barack Obama, 3% unemployment under President Donald Trump.
Now you see why they are so hysterical in their efforts to undo the will of the American people in the last election and why it is essential that we do not let them remove the single most important obstacle to this coup d'etat.
It's info wars, folks. It's a vibrant, robust alternative media outlet called the Internet. It's the Daily Caller. It's Breitbart. It's Gateway Pundit. It's Town Hall. It's all of them.
I only wish our conservative, liberty oriented brethren would recognize that if it's Alex Jones today, it will be them tomorrow.
I love Sean Hannity and what he does on the air. I love the way he has exposed the deep state. I love the way he has shined the spotlight on the weasel Rod Rosenstein. A man, we will hound, we will pursue, we will bring to justice no matter how this breaks down.
Sean needs to wake up and realize that if they censor Alex Jones and info wars today, it'll be Sean Hannity tomorrow.
Laura Ingram. I love her. She's fearless. Laura needs to understand if they gag Alex Jones today, it'll be Laura Ingram tomorrow. And yes, my good friend Tucker Carlson, who I'm honored to say wrote the introduction of my new book, Stones Rules.
Yes, Tucker, they will silence you too. Why? Because you are so effective in your advocacy of freedom and by your fearless exposure of the globalist plan to overturn the last presidential election.
Yesterday, I had an extraordinary experience in preparing for the launch of my next book, which is Stones Rules. This is essentially, let me try to get it. There we go. This is an operating manual.
People ask me, how do you combat and survive the endless stream of smear and innuendo against you? The answer is the rules in this book. We'll pick it up and talk about it on the other side.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of crepping. Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select Storable Food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select Storable Food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy-to-cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select Storable Foods.
There's only one week left to get 50% off on SuperMailVitality. We only do this special once a year, and it's now 50% off until May 7th. This is your chance to try SuperMailVitality that has thousands and thousands of five-star reviews at PowerReviews.com.
The reason SuperMail and SuperFemale are so popular is because they work. We take known documented herbs that superpower energy, libido, stamina, and then we cold press them so they don't lose their essence.
Ladies and gentlemen, SuperMailVitality and SuperfemaleVitality is now 50% off for a limited time at InfoWarsStore.com. The real red pill that goes great with it is also 50% off. And when you get them together, it's free shipping as well. That's SuperMailVitality at 50% off at InfoWarsLife.com, or by calling toll-free, 888-253-3139.
SuperMailVitality at 50% off until May 7th, 2018.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. Quite obviously I'm not Alex Jones, but I'm honored to be here stepping into his very big shoes to carry the fight for freedom.
In our message, our Paul Revere style alert to the American people that there is a coup afoot in this country. There's an illegal unconstitutional power play to strip the American people of the right to make their own decisions about the country's destination through the country's direction through the constitutional electoral process.
That's what the federal judge in Virginia said. The Manafort investigation has nothing to do with poor Paul Manafort. The government continues to lie in discovery in the Manafort cases, insisting that he was never under government surveillance.
The government claims I was never under government surveillance. But there is no question that the New York Times reported on January 20th, 2017, that the Obama administration obtained FISA warrants to spy on Paul Manafort, Roger Stone, and Carter Page.
What was their probable cause? Simple. We were supporting Donald Trump for president. And Paul Manafort is much, much smarter than Robbie Mooc. Paul Manafort took Robbie Mooc to the cleaners.
Just for the record, Steve Bannon, a veritable vagabond, had virtually nothing to do with the election of Donald Trump. Paul Manafort helped Donald Trump devise a plan for the general election that went on autopilot.
Bannon, who thinks he's smarter than Trump, and actually thought he was going to run for president, when in fact he'll be in prison for secretly representing a foreign power, that's my opinion, before this is all over during his short White House tenure,
in which he helped get Rex Tillerson and HR McMaster and other globalists in place, had virtually nothing to do with the election of Donald Trump.
Now I'm not saying that Manafort elected Trump, or that Stone elected Trump, no folks, Donald Trump elected Donald Trump. He is the master of his own fate. And he didn't run for president because he needed to be somebody, he already was somebody.
He didn't run for president because like Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, and George Bush, he needed to amass an enormous fortune by lining his own pockets, he already had an enormous fortune.
Donald Trump's company has lost money because of his presidency. He is doing this to his own financial detriment. Why? Because he loves America. And he's sick and tired of seeing what's happening to this country.
He's not mad, folks, he's angry, angry at the decline of the greatest country on earth. Fed up with their endless foreign wars where our inherent national interest was never clear.
Fed up with the erosion of our civil liberties. Fed up with a stagnant economy and the lack of jobs and opportunity. Fed up with an immigration system that leaves our streets and neighborhoods unsafe.
Fed up with big multinational trade deals that suck the jobs out of America. I'm Roger Stone, you're on The Alex Jones Show, and I'll be right back with our legal analyst, Tyler Nixon.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome back. You're on the Alex Jones show. Some of you may remember that not many months ago I was charged in a court in New York City with defamation by a candidate for governor who I had helped defeat because he was a nut job.
The lawsuit against me, which should have been dismissed for any lack of evidence, was allowed to go forward by a left-wing Tammany Hall judge and ultimately went to an all-democratic jury of Manhattanites who are, of course, some of the most critical individuals in the country when it comes to president Trump.
The jury found for me in an extraordinary legal victory. Now, when I was charged with defamation, it was, of course, on the front pages of the New York newspapers. When I was cleared, well, you could go to page 47 and there was a small box on the bottom right that reported the news.
I'm happy to say, though, that one of the legal architects, and I had an extraordinary legal team, but one of the legal architects of this victory was my friend and personal attorney, Tyler Nixon. He is, of course, of the Nixon clan of Richard M. Nixon fame, and he joins us now on the Alex Jones show.
Tyler, I'm glad you were able to join us.
It's always good to be with you, Roger.
I'm glad to see your personal motto there across the splash page of your Facebook feed.
I really want to focus today on your analysis of the lawsuits that have been filed against yours truly, the Project for Democracy lawsuit, the Phony DNC lawsuit, and their connection to the nine meritless, frivolous lawsuits that have been filed against Alex Jones and Infowars,
because this is something that you have termed lawfare, the new tactic by the left.
Yes, indeed. I mean, these are, this is the weaponization of the judiciary, the weaponization of our legal process by people who have no concern, no care, no interest in serving,
particularly on the attorney level, in serving the system in a just judicial or ethical way.
These are partisans who will use any tactics they can available, and this is one of them.
And, you know, I've read through this lawsuit in particular, the more recent DNC lawsuit, and it is a disgrace, absolute disgrace, because there is just absolutely no stated, not even a shred of actual evidence.
I mean, they have taken a miasma of news reports that are, in many cases, just, you know, news reports upon news reports, lies upon lies.
They've thrown it all together into this witch's brew of allegations and, you know, purported charges and speculation and conjecture, and whipped it up and thought, well, you know what, if we throw 66 pages together, that'll be enough to get it in accord, get our headlines.
And, of course, the worst tactic of all, I think, is this is a tactic you use, they would use mafia figures and people like that, where they would basically put you into a lawsuit with CE figures, in other words.
So you're a co-defendants with the Russian intelligence services to create the impression of guilt by association, where, oh, wow, look, Roger Stone's a co-defendant with Vladimir Putin kind of thing.
You know, it's just, I mean, it is very sinister, it's diabolical, it's underhanded, it's disgraceful, it's exactly how they operate.
And don't kid yourself, folks, Robert Miller is operating exactly the same way in a parallel track with his witch hunt goose chase, whatever you want to call it, that's a complete and utter travesty to the law and to justice in this country.
I don't want to get sidetracked on that, but, you know, the same goes for the lawsuit against Alex Jones, you know, I've taken a look at a couple of them.
The lawsuits are just literal law fair, as we would say.
I mean, this is the Democrats, the leftists are essentially, again, abusing our justice system, abusing due process, abusing the ability to put a lawsuit into action in a court and knowing, as was the case with your lawsuit against you, Roger,
you're able to use the process itself to punish someone, to punish a political opponent, to drag them through the process because you can just make it past certain points each time.
You can just state enough to get past the motion for summary judgment or motion to dismiss.
And, you know, you turn the actual need to fight a lawsuit into a weapon itself, whether you prevail or not at the end.
Well, Tyler, our courts are not supposed to be treated like some free ferry service for legal fishing expeditions cooked up by disgruntled election losers who are out for revenge.
If they were, our entire system would be broken.
But then maybe that's what the leftist Democrats want.
Every little dispute, hashed out by lawyers in black robes who, in turn, were appointed by politicians of the same stripe to make sure even when they lose, they win.
I think Owen Shroyer, who is stationed right there at the NRA convention in Dallas, is able to join us.
And I'd like to bring him into this conversation, if we could, because the lawsuits that info wars are facing are every bit as insidious, every bit as dangerous, every bit as abusive as the lawsuits that I am facing.
And as I said in the first segment, I don't like having to come on info wars and beg.
I don't like having to go on my own personal Facebook page and beg.
But I am facing hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees, ultimately perhaps projected to be as much as a million dollars.
Because I have a witch hunt investigation by the House Intelligence Committee.
I still have open investigations by the Senate Intelligence Committee, the Senate Judiciary Committee.
I have the Obama Front Project for Democracy using a frivolous lawsuit against me for fundraising purposes.
I've now been sued along with Vladimir Putin, the Russian state, the Trump campaign, Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, Julian Assange, WikiLeaks, in a frivolous DNC lawsuit,
a lawsuit that legal know-nothing Jeff Tubin of CNN says is a good idea.
That's a new one on me.
A lawsuit with no evidence or proof, but it's a good idea because maybe something will pop up in discovery.
Are we sure that Tubin passed the bar someplace?
Did he actually graduate from a law school?
Because no real attorney could share that opinion.
These lawsuits, Tyler, they threaten to bankruptcy of me and my family.
They threaten to rob my grandchildren of a college education which I'm trying to provide for.
So I ask people to go to StoneDefenseFund.com, StoneDefenseFund.com, and send a generous contribution because I cannot beat these lawsuits back alone.
On the phone with us now, Tyler Nixon, he's going to stick with us.
We're still trying to connect with Owen Schreuer at the NRA Convention.
You're on the Alex Jones show where we tell you the Stone Cold Truth.
I'll be right back.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
It's an o-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon. Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
You have been lied to. My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer. Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are. This is critical to get, to read, to give them the library, to give them the courage to get them right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com.
KillingUncleSanBook.com.
I was just about to walk out of the studio to pick my children up, and I got some bad news. For the second time in the five and a half year history of Survival Shield X2, our flagship product, we are having supply chain problems.
And this may be the last batch of this. We have deep earth crystal source that's so pure that it actually turns into purple gas in the atmosphere.
And so in our own search to get the purest form, we discovered that oil companies and gas drilling companies had a byproduct that they were selling to pharmaceutical companies and also drug makers that they used to make drugs.
And once they figure out there's a market, they start jacking up the price. But we're offering it still 25% off until it sells out, hopefully just like the last time this happened a few years ago.
It's not an issue and we do get more, but right now we are not able to secure the crystals that produce the purest iodine in the world.
But what it does is for Stamina, libido, focus, energy is really amazing. Survival Shield X2 at InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLife.com.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory functions.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Before America can be great again, she must be free again. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back. You're on the Alex Jones Show, and I'm your pinch-hitting host, Roger Stone.
Joining us is our legal analyst and libertarian activist, Tyler Nixon. Tyler, you recently brought my attention to an extraordinary performance by Clinton campaign manager Robbie Mook on CNN when he was interviewed by the snowflake Jake Tapper.
Give us your analysis. Tell the listeners and viewers what Mr. Mook had to say.
Well, you know, this guy, they keep dredging him back up. He's a loser. He lost the campaign. I mean, look, he got his pants beat off by Manafort and the brilliant leaders over at the Trump campaign. So, you know, he's basically embittered.
He reflects the Hillary Clinton sort of milieu of just nastiness. They are going to go out and try to destroy Donald Trump. They are sore losers. The sores of losers we've ever seen and Mook is one of them.
You know, he came on this show and, of course, they give him, Tapper gave him just free reign to say whatever he wanted. He called you out by name.
You know, this is what they've done. This is how the leftist media operates. Now, you recall there is this secret cabal of journalists called the Journalist run by Ezra Klein.
Now, these people were coordinating their message secretly in this private email list behind the scenes as to what the message would be, how they would help Barack Obama.
I mean, a literal cabal of journalists, you know, but of course, we're the conspiracy theorists, right?
So this is exactly the kind of thing done in the case, and I've noticed in the case of you, what they do, Roger, is they take the story of, you know, whatever the initial baseless allegations are.
Roger Stone was behind the hacking of the DNC. So, you know, assumption number one, there was a hacking of the DNC that wasn't leaked.
And then he handed it, you know, this was perpetrated by the Russians. So, you know, assumption number two was the Russians hacked the DNC.
And then, you know, assumption number three, WikiLeaks, is an arm of the Russian state.
You know, assumption number four, Roger Stone arranged, you know, was in touch with WikiLeaks and therefore in touch with the Russians.
And on and on and on it goes. And what they do is, I've noticed, they'll take that story or that essential nugget of misstatement or, you know,
untruth and they'll pass it down the line of different journalists.
So for example, you'll have, you know, recently you had Jonathan Shate writing his sort of reductio out absurdum version of it, where each time, and you know, this Atlantic reporter,
Natasha, whatever her name is, who wrote a similar story, you know, casting you as this villain and so forth, in which they embellish a little piece of it each time.
They'll alter a little fact. And I've noticed that, you know, obviously very tight on the facts, they'll add something or they'll change the altered.
So each time it's like that, you know, game that used to play as kids, phone call, I guess, where you go around the circle and, you know, you're supposed to repeat a certain phrase.
And by the time it gets all the way around, you're laughing your heads off because it's ridiculous. It sounds nothing like the original story.
Well, that's exactly what these people are doing on a national level to you and to others.
You in particular, Roger, I mean, it's really disgrace. I mean, it makes me sick to my stomach, frankly, just as a person who's fair and ethical minded to see this happen to someone.
Because, you know, I know you well enough that I know how close that this is such a crock of a crock of shit, frankly, is what it is.
And it's just, you know, they, they, I'm almost speechless here because it just disgusts me to no end what they've done.
And, you know, you see another one come out like, my God, you've just beaten back the last raft of bullshit they've floated at you.
And, you know, here comes another one with a new, with a new twist to it.
What they don't understand is that I thrive on combat.
Now, Adam Schiff, Eric, the dumb surfer boy, Swalwell, Diane, octogenarian, criminal, brain dead senator, they enjoy congressional immunity.
They can smear you. They can utilize innuendo. They can state falsehoods. There are no consequences.
Mooc, on the other hand, is another question.
Now, he publicly accused me of treason and criminal activity. And he is subject to the courts.
Now, I have enough defensive actions. I've got to beat back the phony lawsuits against me.
But I'm thinking seriously about suing Mr. Mooc, running up his legal bills, bringing, calling him to account for his lies.
I want to confront him. Mooc, I hope you're listening.
Show us the proof that the Russians hacked the DNC.
Show us the proof that the DNC was hacked at all. You wouldn't let the FBI see their servers.
Show us the proof that I received anything for the Russians.
Show us the evidence that I passed anything on to WikiLeaks.
Because if you cannot, I want a judgment against you.
I'm coming for you, Mooc. And I've got a mean-ass lawyer named Tyler Nixon who's going to take your miserable ass to the cleaners.
Well, I think being Robbie Mooc is punishment, you know, in itself enough.
But that being said, he was careful, I must unfortunately say, too.
And, you know, it's funny because he would have gone on with repeating this definition, Roger.
But guess who interrupted him and corrected him and made sure that he walked it back right on the air right there?
Jake Tapper. Jake Tapper was smart. You know, this is how they look out for the Clinton-esque or the Clintonites and the Obamaites.
You know, to make sure that we want to protect our people.
We wouldn't want them to get sued like they're waging a lawfare campaign against you and others.
And, you know, the bottom line is this, Robbie Mooc, for example, has overseen illegal payments or, you know,
or let's just say unreported contributions, excuse me, campaign money that was shuttled to Fusion GPS by this law firm Perkins Cuy.
And there is an FEC complaint currently against the Clinton campaign because Hillary for America pending,
which of course has been held up, they've had to sue the FEC just to get action on it,
in which they basically disguised these payments as legal fees and consulting or, excuse me, compliance fees.
Now, Robbie Mooc oversaw that. So he was paying, he was overseeing the payment of Fusion GPS to create the fake dirty dossier,
disguising it behind the mask of a law firm in order to deceive the American people about what they were really,
you know, who they were paying, who they were buying.
And then, of course, this entire Fusion GPS dossier launched the entire Mueller campaign, the Mueller effort against the president,
which is, I mean, boy, don't get me started on that, or if you want to get me started, I'm glad to go into it.
Well, we've got about just a minute left here.
I want to thank Tyler Nixon, who always is on the money with his acute legal analysis for both the Alex Jones show and the war room.
Here's the thing, when you win a successful presidential campaign as the campaign manager, you can dine out on it forever.
You are assured a future of wealth and prominence.
Take Ed Rollins, for example, a stone cold loser who dined out on Ronald Reagan's great victory for years.
Robbie Mukul down in history and will die a penniless loser.
Thanks for joining us on the Alex Jones show.
Thank you for Tyler Nixon joining us.
We'll be right back with our inshroyer from the NRA Convention in Dallas, Texas.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out-left sanctuary state until one day I chose to leave my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden, and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our BlackRifle Real Estate team is here to help.
Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
For a modern twist on this primitive survival tool, feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select's storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select's storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select's storable foods.
InfoWarsLife and InfoWarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfoWarsLife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit InfoWars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
There's only one week left to get 50% off on super male vitality.
We only do this special once a year, and it's now 50% off until May 7th.
This is your chance to try super male vitality that has thousands and thousands of five-star reviews at PowerReviews.com.
The reason super male and super female are so popular is because they work.
We take known documented herbs that superpower energy, libido, stamina, and then we cold press them so they don't lose their essence.
Ladies and gentlemen, super male vitality and super female vitality is now 50% off for a limited time at InfoWarsStore.com.
The real red pill that goes great with it is also 50% off, and when you get them together, it's free shipping as well.
That's super male vitality at 50% off at InfoWarsLife.com, or by calling toll free, 888-253-3139.
Super male vitality at 50% off until May 7th, 2018.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show.
It's been a topsy-turvy day because I led the top of the judge report this morning in a bogus CNBC report that says that I am now in special counselor Robert Mueller's crosshairs.
Because of my close relationship, which is in fact virtually non-existent with former Trump campaign staffer Rick Gates, they're probing the dinners we had.
Except for we didn't have any but one, with many other people present, to discuss the delegation to the Republican National Convention from New York State.
They're investigating the meetings I had with Gates at Trump Tower, except for I didn't have any, not a one.
They are focused on the work that Gates and I did together in the 80s, according to CNBC, except for we didn't do any because I didn't know Gates in the 80s.
This fellow, Brian, fake news, Schwartz with CNBC, has been buffalowed by somebody.
Brian, your source is full of shift.
Joining us now from Dallas, Texas, and the NRA convention is Owen Schroiske, the Russian agent.
Welcome to the Alex Jones show.
Owen, I'm delighted that you can join us.
Good to be with you, Comrade Stonsky.
Well, I am here at the NRA convention in Dallas.
It is very poppin', very lively.
I will go ahead and make a prediction now that the amount of funds raised for the NRA at this convention will be record for the NRA.
And you can thank the students of Parkland, like David Hogg, for helping grow the NRA to numbers and monies that they've never seen before.
Roger, I've been going around here today, not just broadcasting live, showing people all the sights and scenes and the guns and everything, but I've been asking people one specific question.
What do they think about the Robert Mueller investigation?
There is not one person that I have found here, and you can say, well, you might expect that from an NRA crowd, but there's thousands and thousands of people here, and their opinion matters too.
Nobody here believes it, Roger. Nobody here believes that Trump's colluded with Russia. Nobody here thinks that the Mueller investigation is actually looking for Russian collusion.
Everybody understands that it's just to try to remove Trump or to undermine his presidency, and it's amazing how they keep doubling down, tripling down, quadrupling down, repeating the same news cycles, telling the same fake news,
and then expanding the range of the probe into anyone Donald Trump has ever communicated with. Or maybe, you know, maybe you use the same toilet that Donald Trump used in the same bathroom at the same hotel 20 years ago.
Now you might be in Mueller's crosshairs because you use the same toilet as Donald Trump. This is how absurd it's gotten, but nobody buys it, Roger. That's the amazing thing.
We have this investigation going on totally fake, totally fraudulent, wasting taxpayer dollars, really tearing this country apart, and nobody buys it.
This is so unprecedented that I don't even think we understand the truly historical context of this. This is Stalin-esque. This is Kafka-esque.
This is 1984 in the flesh that we're seeing right now, Roger, and we are in the middle of it. We are in the forefront of it. A fake investigation to bring down a duly elected president. You cannot make this stuff up.
Well, I completely agree with you, Owen. My concern, my fear, is that Mueller is inviting a spasm of violence in this country that will lead to a virtual armed civil war. This is not 1963.
This is not 1974. We will not go gladly into that good night. They are not going to strip our constitutional freedoms. They are not going to strip us of our civil liberties.
They are not going to erase our borders. They are not going to take down Donald Trump in some illegitimate coup. Adam Schiff, Eric Swalwell, Ted Light in the Lofors, Lou, Senator Mark Werner.
No, you will be held responsible. You will be hunted down and hounded for your illegal activities. This is a powder keg we are sitting on. This is why their agenda is clear. Get their guns.
We have to get their guns. We have to also strip them of their megaphone. Take Alex Jones off of the Internet. Take info wars off of YouTube. Silence them. Shut them down.
Gag them. File these phony lawsuits. Then we can use the headlines generated to rationalize our attempts to censor them. It's a slippery slope, but American patriots, the ones attending that convention, the ones who are well armed,
they are not going to stand by idly and see their freedoms stripped away. They are not going to stand for an unconstitutional coup. Do you read it that way as I do?
Well, I think you've hit the nail on the head, Roger. That's the threat to these people. As soon as the public becomes awakened and unified, they're done.
Everything that they've done to this country, all the lies, all the wars, all the corruption, and now this trying to remove President Trump, it's all going to be exposed.
And I think you hit it right on the head. Their biggest threat politically is Donald Trump, but their biggest threat to their overall agenda worldwide government is the American people that are armed, the American people that are educated,
and yes, the American people that listen to info wars and get news and education from us to understand exactly what's going on. So yeah, you hit it right on the head, Roger. What are they going to do right now?
If you think about the Hillary Clinton's, the James Comey's and the like, what are they thinking? What are they going to do? Well, they're peeing their pants. They are shipping their shorts because they know that justice awaits them.
So like you said, what would you do? We have to get the guns. We have to shut down the news outlets that are reporting on our crimes. We have to shut them down. This cannot stand.
So that's what it is in their last desperate moment of panic to try to maintain the facade that they've been robbing this country just bone dry for the last decade.
They try to maintain this facade that, oh, we have America's best interest in mind. You don't need a border. You don't need guns. You don't need free speech. We're trying to protect you. Bull.
You're trying to destroy this country and we know it. So that's why they want to shut us down. That's why they want to take the guns, Roger, because we call them out.
And just like you said, they're afraid of justice. And if you are a worldwide criminal and your name is known and you know that there's armed people that might want to take these into their own hands, because of your great crimes, what are you going to do?
Take the guns. That's what it all comes down to, Roger.
Well, let's be very clear because we know that the snowflakes like David Brock are listening. No, we are not the ones advocating violence. You are the ones through Antifa who are utilizing violence.
So we are not advocating strong armed tactics. You are the ones utilizing strong armed tactics, breaking into Paul Manafort's home at five o'clock in the morning, busting into Michael Cohn's locker in his home in his hotel room where his legal records are kept.
You are the ones running roughshod on our civil liberties and our constitutions. You are leading with your chin. You are begging for a violent eruption for the peaceable people in this country who aren't going to let you hijack the nation.
I fear for America. I fear for our constitutional system. Comey, Brennan, Mueller, McCabe, Rosenstein, the weasel. You will be brought to justice. You will be punished in a court of law.
Barry Obama himself. You sold guns to ISIS. You're going down. You will rot in a prison cell. The justice of the Trump Revolution, the justice of the American people that they voted for in the last election.
Justice will find every one of you criminals. I suggest we start with the psychopath criminal, Wahhabist, John Brennan. Stop threatening the president. We're coming for you, Brennan. We're coming for you.
I'm on InfoWars. It's the Alex Jones Show and we'll be right back.
We're on Arizona. You're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars live products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long. Go ahead.
I just have to say something, man. It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging. It just gets old, man. I'm going to shut you down right now, okay?
We're taking calls about your nomination. Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down? Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out. I mean, what's it going to take us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what? I'll put him on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear? We're under attack. We need your help.
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this. I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
You understand? I need your help, Frank. I need your help, Frank.
Go to infowarstore.com right now and help fund the info war.
Do you understand? I need your help, Frank. Free press needs your help, Frank.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have in info wars life, it'd take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering info wars store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake.
But it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
Welcome back.
These are great, great days to be alive. We're on the Alex Jones show and I'm Roger Stone pinch hitting for the great Alex Jones who had a few personal matters to take care of today.
And then, of course, we were hit at our Austin bunker with a power outage throughout the entire region. But we soldiered on using the techniques of radio because the circle cannot be broken.
The chain of information cannot be stopped. We are here to present the truth.
365 days a year. It's a challenge because Soros, the globalists, the Obamas, the Clintons, the Bush crime family, they want to shut us down, folks, and they have a strategy.
Let's tangle Alex Jones and his entire info wars crew up with a series of expensive but frivolous lawsuits. Then those lawsuits will generate terrible headlines.
Then we take the headline and we go to YouTube and you see Alex Jones is a pervert. Alex Jones is a racist. Alex Jones is a misogynist.
The people at info wars are Nazis. They're white supremacists. Let's take them off the Internet.
It's a scam, folks, but unfortunately it's an expensive scam.
You see, we just don't have a deep pockets billionaire like Soros hiding in the wings writing giant checks.
We have to depend on the rank and file freedom loving listeners and viewers right here at the info wars.
You are the ones fueling the revolution. You are the ones who elected Donald Trump.
You are the ones who depend on our exposure of the corruption of the deep state and the globalist agenda to enslave us every day.
So if you like what we do here at info wars, if you're digging the real news with David Knight every morning, if you like the iconic Alex Jones show,
one of the most influential programs in America, folks, a program that literally moves millions to civic action and helped elect this reformist president.
If you like what Owen Shroyer and I are doing on the war room every day, well then we need your support. We need your help.
We've got two things going on. Alex Jones is trying to expand info wars, new studios, new technology, new correspondence, new people.
But unfortunately, we still have to fight this rear guard action against these frivolous lawsuits.
So please go to the info wars store now and look at some of these extraordinary specials.
I myself like the mind and body challenge. This is where you stack the real red pill.
One of the very best vitamin and supplement vitamin and mineral supplements that I have found with brain force plus this stuff folks really works.
Now I put in long hard hours in the fight for freedom.
Today I'll not only be here on the Alex Jones show, but tonight I'm joining Tucker Carlson on Fox and I believe Anderson Cooper on CNN to respond to the smear that I am now the focus of the Mueller probe.
I wouldn't be able to do it without brain force plus this terrific product gives you mental energy and clarity just when you need it.
Just at that four o'clock point when I get my dip, but you're not jacked. You're not wired.
You're able to sleep and get a restful night's sleep brain force plus a terrific product and when you stack it with the real red pill.
Well, that's the mind body challenge we speak of.
Or you might want to try alpha power when stacked with the super male vitality, what we call the Michael Zimmerman package.
It gives you a rise in your libido arise in your energy arise in your manhood.
These terrific products are all natural. They're the very best ingredients.
You won't find any fillers like you do at Whole Foods. You won't find exorbitant prices where they make 300% profit.
You won't find any half empty bottles because almost in every case you're getting 20% more in volume by going to the info war store.
Please stop by. If you don't like our nutraceuticals, look at the t-shirts, look at the books, look at the donation page.
If you're not in the market for any product, but you want to support the fight for a free press and the First Amendment,
consider a generous donation to info wars. 25 bucks, 50 bucks, 100 bucks. Yes, some people even sold that sent us as much as $500.
We've had a few info warriors just send in a thousand because they like what Alex Jones is doing.
They like his fearlessness and they know Soros and his satanic pedophile army seeks to close us down.
Let me tell you how insidious the tech left efforts to close down the voices of conservatism and freedom are.
As I mentioned, my new book, Stones Rules, will hit bookstores on May 8th.
Very shortly it will be available at the infowars.com store.
Yesterday I posted on Facebook a series of ads in which I took the Amazon website link where you buy the book and I used the Google shortening technology to shorten the link and then put up the post.
The book jumped from 48th among political books to 24th according to the Amazon count within hours and then I got the bad news.
Google shut down my shortened link saying it was spam.
When I looked at the description on Amazon of my new book, there's nothing in there that violates their standards. There's no curse words or hate speech.
It's about politics, business and style.
It shows you how insidious the deep state and their tech left allies are in their efforts to block any message but their own.
So until we have it on infowars, you can find it at Amazon or Barnes & Noble.
But if you want to get the best price, you'll find it shortly at the infowars store.
I'm very proud of this book.
People say to me, how do you combat the constant war of smear and innuendo and allegation that is aimed at you by the fake news and their puppet masters in the left wing Democratic Party?
The answer is I adhere tightly to the rules in this book, Stone's Rules.
These are my rules of engagement.
This is my battle plan.
This is the only book you need besides the Bible to succeed in business, politics or style.
I hope you'll get a copy.
You're on the Alex Jones show.
We're in the forefront to expose the illegal unconstitutional coup d'tat and to take down our duly elected president.
We're calling out the globalists.
We're calling out the libtards.
We're kicking arse and taking names in the style of Alex Jones.
I'm proud to be with you.
And I asked you one more time, stop by the infowars store.
We need your support.
We are challenged and threatened as never before, but we will never retreat.
We will never quit.
We will never stop fighting, but we need your help to persevere and to succeed.
We need your support for victory.
Victory is in sight.
Mueller, Comey and the cops are on the run.
We'll be right back at infowars.
Music
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier
as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield and infowarslife.com.
I was just about to walk out of the studio to pick my children up
and I got some bad news.
For the second time in the five and a half year history of Survival Shield X2,
our flagship product, we are having supply chain problems.
And this may be the last batch of this.
We have deep earth crystal source that's so pure that it actually turns into purple gas in the atmosphere.
And so in our own search to get the purest form, we discovered that oil companies
and gas drilling companies had a byproduct that they were selling to pharmaceutical companies
and also drug makers that they used to make drugs.
And once they figure out there's a market, they start jacking up the price.
But we're offering it still 25% off until it sells out.
Hopefully, just like the last time this happened a few years ago, it's not an issue and we do get more.
But right now, we are not able to secure the crystals that produce the purest iodine in the world.
But what it does is for stamina, libido, focus, energy is really amazing.
Survival Shield X2 at InfowarsTour.com, InfowarsLife.com.
And now your host, Roger Stone.
Welcome back.
I'm your pinch-hitting host, Roger Stone, and you're at Freedom Command Central.
Yes, it's the Alex Jones show.
We've had a terrific show today despite the power outages in the Austin, Texas area
where we broadcast from a bunker in an undisclosed location.
But using the techniques of old-time radio, the chain was unbroken.
And we were continuing to broadcast to bring you the cutting edge news
about a federal judge slapping down Robert Mueller for his naked attempts to manipulate the system
in the Get Donald Trump Squad that is the Office of Special Prosecutor.
The appointment of Rod Rosenstein, in my opinion, is the single most egregious mistake by President Donald Trump.
Rod Rosenstein was recommended for the job by former Republican National Chairman Wright's Previs.
Frankly, I've had it up to here with Previs, a political and mental midget who probably didn't even vote for Donald Trump
but who virtually destroyed the early days of the Trump presidency by staffing the government with Trump-hating Bushites.
Now, we have an incredible fake news story by CNBC that says Mueller is probing my close relationship
with former Trump campaign aide Rick Gates on a relationship that virtually doesn't exist.
Any contact I had with Gates in 2016 was both minimal and innocuous.
Nothing there to see, folks. It's fake news. More and more fake news.
I believe we have a video coming up from the great Paul Joseph Watson.
But in the meantime, I'm going to ask you one more time to recognize that everything we're doing here costs money.
And that we have no subsidy, no George Soros of the right, bailing us out and paying our way.
What Alex Jones has built here at Infowars is truly extraordinary.
We become the tip of the spear. We are the ones they fear.
This is why you've seen an unalloyed campaign to shut us down and silence us.
I really hope that conservative thought leaders like Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson and so many others
will recognize that if they gag Alex Jones, they are next.
This is about the fight for freedom. This is about the First Amendment.
They are still reeling from the fact that they've lost control of their monopoly on political discourse.
In the old days, ABC, NBC, CBS, The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post,
they called the shots. There was no dissent. There was no alternative opinion.
Things went down the way they said they did. Today, it's a new day.
Infowars is at the cutting edge of a robust and vibrant alternative media that brings the people the truth.
And the people responded with the historic election of an outsider uncontrolled by the trilateral commission,
Donald J. Trump. Now they want to illegally undo the results of the last election.
But to do so, they must shut us down and take our guns.
Don't let it happen, folks. Stay with us. You're at Infowars.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Don't know if you've heard, but Kanye West has been in the news quite a bit, bashed from pillar to post,
by every legacy media outlet under the sun for the crime of promoting free thought, love, and understanding.
Which as we all know are racist ideas.
He's saying these sorts of ridiculous things that are usually promoted by white nationalists, by friend groups,
by friend individuals, mostly on the internet, that promote racist ideas.
So let me get this straight. CNN's Brian Stelter, a podgy white guy who works for a multi-billionaire global corporation,
is telling a black dude that he's racist for encouraging African Americans not to listen to a global corporation and think for themselves.
Yeah, a little less white-splaining, please, Brian, and a bit more shushy-shush.
But Kanye said being a slave 400 years ago was a choice.
Saying slavery was a choice is absolutely a racist idea, so stop.
Of any of you been paying attention for like five minutes, Kanye was talking about mindset.
The victimhood of slavery mindset that black people living today are told to wallow in.
He wasn't talking about slaves having a choice 400 years ago.
Anyone who's been following his tweets and interviews knows this.
Why do you think Kanye resonated with Candice Owens?
What's Candice Owens' message? That black people shouldn't remain mired in the victimhood mentality of slavery.
I don't know why people like being oppressed.
The weirdest thing I've ever heard. I love oppression.
We're oppressed. 400 years of slavery. Jim Crow, which by the way, none of you guys lived through.
Again, Kanye is talking about African Americans living now, not slaves living hundreds of years ago.
I mean, what kind of stupidity can we expect to encounter next?
Kanye is a Russian agent.
Oh, look at this idiot.
While you are making music and being an artist and living the life that you've earned by being a genius,
the rest of us in society have to deal with these threats to our lives.
So whiny Mr. TMZ staffer says Donald Trump is a threat to his life.
Give me a break.
You're living a life infinitely more privileged than the vast majority of people, especially black people on the planet.
You want to know the biggest threat to black people's lives? Yeah, it's black on black violence.
Oh, but you're way more outraged over a frigging MAGA hat and a few tweets.
Conservatives, Trump supporters and free thinkers, please do not attach yourselves to Kanye West. It will backfire.
Mark my words. It will backfire.
Yeah, conservatives embracing Kanye has backfired so badly that support for Trump amongst black males has doubled in a single week.
Mark my words. It will backfire.
Mark my words.
Yeah, I marked your words and they were disproven within a matter of hours.
Listen, Tommy, I don't know if your staffers forgot to heat up your butt-warming pad, and that's the reason why you're so...but hurt.
But jealousy's never a good look.
Then we have little Ben Shapiro.
The Never-Trumper who tried to sabotage Trump's campaign by white-niting for Michelle Fields' made-up story about being assaulted by Corey Lewandowski
with his incessantly annoying boundary policing, ordering other conservatives around as to whose show they can and can't appear on.
Boundary policing used to be called having some standards.
Really, Ben?
Tommy, get this straight. According to your logic, appearing on a network means you must simultaneously endorse the every viewpoint of the host.
Well, what do we have here?
It just demonstrates the right's desperation to be taken seriously in the sphere of pop culture.
So if all this is just a pointless joke, why are you so butt-hurt about Ken disappearing on info wars?
Who elected you, leader of the Thought Police?
I'm Ben Shapiro and I'm very smart.
Why is the guy who constantly whines about being no-platformed by the left trying to no-platform other conservatives through peer pressure?
Here's another question.
Why do establishment conservatives like Shapiro always try to s*** over every fantastic opportunity, a chance to help millions of African-Americans get off the plantation of government dependency to escape the internalized depression of identity politics?
I mean, is it some kind of cuckoldry thing?
Do they like to lose?
So we have a global celebrity with a reach of millions.
Exposing those millions to thoughts and ideas they would never otherwise hear, a method that's already proving successful in the polls.
And people like Shapiro are pissing their pants in fear of what might happen.
I mean, God forbid we want to actually win a battle in the culture war.
If that happens, Shapiro might not get invited back on CNN.
All these establishment never Trump conservatives care about is ring fencing ideas and maintaining their stupid little cliques.
They're quite happy to lose to the left over and over again, so long as they can keep their crappy national review columns.
No bitches, your time's up.
You're the past, we're the future.
But let's move past the squabbling and get real here.
This isn't even a left or right issue.
The Kanye has also endorsed gun control activists and leftist darling Emma Gonzalez.
It's not a left or right issue, it's an authenticity issue.
This is about the high priests of pop culture panicking about one of their own going off the reservation and expressing independent thoughts.
This is about Kanye becoming the embodiment of the threat of a good example.
This is about them freaking out over Kanye encouraging other celebrities to express free thoughts
and to reject the same tired old cliches and insipid platitudes.
Reject the very thing that has made celebrities and pop culture relentlessly boring and predictable for the past two decades.
The legacy media and establishment commentators on both left and right are also panicking
because their entire business model of partisan bickering is directly threatened by Kanye's message of unity and understanding.
Their entire narrative of demonizing anyone who fails to fall into their viciously controlled political paradigm is at risk.
The message is about freedom of thought.
It's about liberating oneself from the fear of how the mob will react and being truly outspoken.
And yet of course Kanye's involvement is partly motivated by free publicity and album sales.
So he's amplifying the message like no one else could.
Kanye West might not be the most eloquent or the most intelligent vehicle for the message,
but the message is what frightens them nonetheless.
Kanye West has been a brilliant entertainer,
but right now he's acting like a gift to racists because he is saying comments,
he is saying these sorts of ridiculous things that are usually promoted by white nationalists,
by fringe groups, by fringe individuals, mostly on the internet, that promote racist ideas.
See, did you hear that? Kanye, an African American male, is a gift to racists for saying that he likes the ideas of a black woman, Candace Owens.
Now Kanye has been catching all sorts of heat for expressing his support for President Trump.
Of course the thought of an influential black man breaking through the conditioning is the left's worst nightmare.
Why?
Because when you let others know it's okay to get off that thought plantation
and break through the pre-programmed conditioning of mental enslavement, others realize that they too are free.
Perfect example, before Kanye's support for Trump became one of the biggest news stories of the year,
Trump's approval ratings started at just 11% amongst African American males.
But according to Reuters, on April 29th, a week into the Kanye controversy, that figure shot up to 22%.
Double the number of African American males now have a positive view of Trump thanks to Kanye,
proving once again that politics is downstream from culture.
Leigh Ann McAdoo, Infowars.com.
Only one of the security guys seemed to be in charge at Whole Foods was a jerk.
He was already standing on the corner of the property, off the property.
He came over and said, get out of here, I'm calling the police, and I said,
well, I can go in your parking garage and get my car, and he wouldn't answer that and made me think I was going to get arrested
when I went down there to get my car and follow me to my car.
So I'm coming back, I'm already planning to come back, but now, coming back a lot.
Because people were polite to me, they were nice to me.
Most of the folks in Whole Foods were listeners in big blue state Austin, blue state cancer Austin.
But you try to stop me and bully me, I'm coming back.
The state go-go zone, elected to program the program around the grocery market.
They're programmed mainly by Jeff Beesons.
He's the biggest funder of the critical party.
He made $12 billion in one day last week.
He's a registrar in the world, he gets $1.50 on every package he ships.
All the rest of his money was based on the state of government monopolies,
his tax exempt, he basically pays those taxes.
He's the biggest seller in the world, but his own Washington Post,
writes hard to say I'm a snooble seller.
Selling at least a dozen products or more that I try to label that are probably labeled by Whole Foods.
So he's a big monopoly, got to be $12 million last week in one day.
He worked $120 billion, he controls hundreds of billions more.
He has a whole plan for his workers to live in 200 square foot apartments.
He's a really bad dude.
He killed the publishing industry, now he's killing Main Street.
So let's go ahead and stop him an aisle first, here we go.
So here we are.
You've got to put my eyes all the same thing to yourself, all the time.
But you would have Jeff Bezos believe these great products are here.
My name is Kevin Schipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSanBuck.com.
KillingUncleSanBuck.com.
Ready to eat bacon.com.
KillingUncleSanBuck.com.
Enjoy us and peaceful holiday season.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select's storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select's storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select's storable foods.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
InfoWars.com is tomorrow's news. Today, you're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Well, it's the policy of truth in that the reason they attack the Second Amendment is because they cannot have an armed population and a tyrannical government at the same time.
Where I suggested, hey, why don't we consider instead of bringing all of these refugees here, why don't we maybe try to organize them and reform their countries?
Oh, they can't reform their countries because the government has all the guns.
Now you see why the Second Amendment is so important.
Now, we've got big news, Mueller and everything. It looks like it's finally coming apart.
Charlie Rose gets sued. Unemployment numbers are even better than we expected.
Donald Trump is live at the NRA right now speaking, getting them fired up here in Dallas.
So let's go to President Trump at the NRA convention.
We put our hands on our hearts for the pledge of allegiance and we all proudly stand for the national anthem. We proudly stand.
Powerful stuff here. As President Trump says, we stand for the national anthem.
Of course, a direct shot at the professional athletes in this country who decide to take a knee.
I think that trend is going to die out this year.
Pop that up. Give me that loud.
What people, what great people.
And this is your record crowd. You know, all-time record crowd. You do know that.
Just remember, nice to set records.
And like I said earlier, I bet you that they have a record fundraising at this NRA convention as well.
As them, the same love and loyalty in return.
For the last 15 months, that is exactly what we have been doing.
We are all finally putting America first.
Unless, of course, you're Robert Mueller, then you put the deep state first in the globalists.
And we are seeing the incredible results. As a result of our massive tax cuts and everybody is benefiting and everybody is happy.
And the Democrats are very concerned. You watch how well we do in 18. You watch. You watch. Get out and vote.
Don't be complacent. Don't be complacent.
History says that when you win the presidency, you get complacent. We all know the feeling. You know the feeling, not too many.
Like 90% of the time, you win the presidency and for whatever reason, you lose the midterm. We can't let that happen.
And the word is complacent. I kept thinking to myself, why is that? I wonder why.
Think about it. You win. You have this great win. Now you take a breath. You relax.
All of a sudden, two years is up. They're fighting like hell and you're complacent. We cannot get complacent. We have to win the midterm.
Yeah, it's key. And I don't think this blue wave is happening. I think it's totally bonk.
We created 3.2 million jobs, unthought of. If we would have said that three years ago during the campaign, people would have said, what a horrible exaggeration.
That's so terrible. They wouldn't have believed it. 3.2 million. The unemployment rate, you saw that just today, just fell beneath 4% for the first time since the beginning of this century.
And all it took was a president who wanted to make America first, a president who had America's interest at heart. That's all it took.
Obama said it took a magic wand. Well, the magic wand was caring about America. The magic wand was not selling America down the drain. That was the magic wand.
You know, I heard it was about 19 years. I said, wait a minute. The beginning of the century sounds better. So I say, the beginning of the century. More beautiful.
African-American unemployment has reached another all-time in history record low in history.
Uh-oh. And now Kanye West is saying that black people don't have to be Democrat. All the Democrats are in panic, folks.
Kanye West must have some power because you probably saw, I doubled my African-American poll numbers. We went from 11 to 22 in one week. Thank you, Kanye. Thank you.
All the Democrats are so screwed. They're so screwed. And Nancy Pelosi thinks she's going to maintain her speaker of the House position.
Ha! Even the pollsters thought there must be a mistake. Now we've come a long way. You remember I'd come into big rooms, big audiences, and I'd say, what do you have to lose?
Because the Democrats have always had their vote. I say, what do you have to lose? Horrible and crime. Horrible in education. Horrible on everything. I say, what do you have to lose?
And they voted for me and we won. But now the numbers are much higher than they ever were with African-American. And we're happy.
So now, because they're losing that vote, they're panicking and they're trying to get Mueller to start subpoenaing people.
At the lowest level in history, unemployment, lowest level in history, and women, unemployment, women, many women, is at the lowest level in almost 20 years.
Think of that. So we have the best employment numbers we've virtually ever had. And yet, all we hear about is this phony Russia witch hunt. That's all we hear about.
Just when I'm walking on the stage, a highly respected judge in Virginia made statements. It says, Wall Street Journal, it says, judge questions Mueller's authority to prosecute manifold.
Now Paul Mann has shut it down. But you know, he worked for me for a very short period of time, literally for like, what, a couple of months? Little period of time. Then what happens?
He worked for Ronald Reagan. He worked for Bob Doe. They worked, I think, as a firm for John McCain. They worked for others. Does anybody say that? No.
But he's out there fighting on fake news CNN. I think every fake news and worse. No, but on CNN, they have a headline, judge in Manafort case says Mueller's aim is to hurt Trump.
You believe that? This is what we're up to. Yeah. All right. So we're about to go to break here. And if you watched my live broadcast from the floor of the NRA convention, I was walking around.
I was asking people, what do you think about the Mueller investigation? What do you think about the Russia Trump collusion nonsense? Nobody believes it. They all think it's unconstitutional.
And I think it's time for us to actually go a step further. We shouldn't be saying, hey, let's shut down the Mueller investigation. No, let's shut it down.
And then let's investigate him. Let's tap his phone. Let's investigate his bank account. Let's see his records from his attorneys. What do you think we would find on Robert Mueller?
It's time to investigate Robert Mueller. That's what it's time for. And I think that's coming next, folks. All right, we'll be right back. This is the Alex Jones show.
It's an O-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Healthcare reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
We're in more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
In the history of M4's life, we brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMell Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslives.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society. Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com, because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and the rest assured, you're finding the info war, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A. Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy, does it stimulate, because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae, and I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at infowarslife.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. Owen Schreuer here, hosting in the fourth hour live in Dallas, Texas. We were at the NRA convention earlier today.
Myself, Jake Lloyd, Michael Zimmerman, filing reports, doing live streams. We came back to the hotel to host the fourth hour of the Jones show, and then host the first hour of the war room before we have a surprise special guest host taking over after the first hour.
We're going to go back to President Trump in a minute. I want to open up the phone lines. 877-789-ALAX, 877-789-2539. Specifically, I only want to take calls on the Robert Mueller investigation. What do you think needs to be done about it?
And what do you think is truly behind it? Now, I know that we've already talked about this at Nauseam, and we already have the answers, but we have to just push this nonstop.
We have to call out Robert Mueller 24-7365 until he's done, until justice befells those who are trying to remove and undermine a duly elected president.
Because this is beyond, I mean, you're talking about one individual, lawless, above the country, above the Constitution, above the separation of powers, above the executive branch.
One man answers to no one, unelected, totally illegal. Investigate anybody you want, try to find anything you want. The only goal is to try to bring Trump down.
Destroy people's lives, whatever you got to do. Destroy the country, anything you got to do, get Trump.
And I guess it really shows you, I mean, I guess how clean Donald Trump actually is, if the only thing they can find is some payment to a hooker or something.
I mean, it's ridiculous. So I'm going to take your calls on that. They're going to start gathering phone calls.
But ladies and gentlemen, this is all possible with your support at infowarstore.com. We're able to have crews on the road. We've got Millie on the road.
We've got myself, Jake Lloyd, Michael Zimmerman on the road, big specials, the brand new DNA Force Plus at infowarstore.com, 50% off right now.
You know, I was down at the NRA convention. So many people come up to me and they plug our products. They love our products. They thank us for our products, folks.
If you haven't tried the products yet, what are you waiting for? Give it a go. They're attacking us. They want to shut us down.
We need your support now more than ever. They're going to come after us even harder now.
This Mueller campaign is about to actually ramp up and we're going to need even more funds to fight these legal battles probably.
But you have our word. We're going to expand. That's what your support at infowarstore.com does.
So let's go back to President Trump for just a minute or two, guys, and then let me know when you got some calls aggregated.
Here's President Trump at the NRA convention in Dallas.
Can you imagine if we ever called for a rally in Washington, D.C., there wouldn't be enough room. There wouldn't be enough room.
We have a lot of love going on. You know, people don't realize we have great love going on in this country. Great love.
It's right here. We have. And by the way, you just saw the recent poll. It came out the Rasmussen 51 or 52. It's the highest level I've ever been at.
How does that happen when you only get bad publicity? How does that happen?
Because everybody hates the fake news. That's what that is.
That's because people realize that a lot of what you read and a lot of what you see on television is fake. They realize it's the people who say it's fake.
That is devastating right there from the mouth of the president. That is devastating to call out the establishment, fake news.
To keep your rights and we're going to keep those rights, you're going to be so happy.
You have to say it. You weren't sure that Trump was going to win, but you all went out there. You all went out there and you voted. You voted.
And there were times that put up that Trump passed, Trump passed. There were times you're saying, a week before they were saying, I remember they came out with a lot of phony polls.
You know what that's called? Suppression. They convince you that you're wasting your time. Why should you vote? Go to a movie instead. Come home. Watch the results.
Very few of the people in this room and in this country did that. And we really had a big night.
Remember they said, there's no way election will come.
All right. All right. Pull Trump down as he's about to conclude this speech. This is actually can. He already did conclude his speech and very powerful.
The NRA all fired up huge crowd at the NRA record crowd. They're going to have record funds raised as well. I'm predicting that that'll be reported probably in the news Monday.
But he just hit an important point about voter suppression that they're trying to do again in the midterms.
So they're doing the same thing. Oh, it's the blue wave. Oh, the Democrats have all the momentum bull. What momentum do the Democrats have other than the fake news?
I did the analytics on the Senate races coming up and I expect Republicans to probably get 54, maybe 56 seats in the Senate if it's that good.
But I think 54, 53 is probably where it's going to end up favoring the Republicans.
Of course, they'll tell you, you know, the Democrats will have 52 or something like that because they've got to run their fake news voter suppression agenda.
But I want to go to your phone calls, guys. Do we have anybody on the line yet? Just just pipe into my ear. It's okay.
It's just pipe into my ear. Let me know what's going on with the phone lines because I was asking people today.
I was asking people today, what do you think about the Mueller probe? What do you think needs to be done?
People are sick of this, man. And in fact, you know, I've got a guy that I met last night, a big liberal attorney here in Dallas, a huge liberal attorney,
has a lot of strings that he pulls to get liberal judgment into office. We have totally different politics, but we got along.
But even he is saying like, look, this Russia thing is absurd. Trump's the president. Trump won. You know, okay, why is Mueller trying to destroy the country?
So I just want to go to the college and get your opinions on this, your angles on this. What do you think needs to be happening with the Mueller investigation?
Where do you think it goes from here? Did you say Ken in Dallas, guys?
Kevin? All right, Kevin, go ahead.
Can you hear me?
Kevin, what do you think needs to be done to this Robert Mueller investigation?
Okay, with this, I mean, this is just out of control. I mean, the fact that the whole investigation is based off of a phony dossier is just, it's insane.
And then that they keep, they're not reporting, the special counsel doesn't report to anyone when they're supposed to be reporting back,
what is it, every six months to their higher ups to make sure, you know, that they're not above the law, that they're not God, basically.
And you have Mueller on this witch hunt for two years, spending millions of dollars, I mean, taxpayers' money.
You got Jeff Sessions completely compromised, you know, and Rosenstein as well.
I mean, it's unbelievable what we have going on right now. All the corruption, it's just insane what needs to happen.
I mean, I understand what I think is I understand that people and their families are probably being threatened.
And I understand that, you know, they, I mean, they really, right now, anybody in the White House is being threatened.
And they're ruining people's lives too. I mean, look at what's happening, you know, Michael Caputo, Paul Amford, Michael Flynn, I mean, you know, Roger Stone, I mean, even Alex Jones, I mean, they're ruining people's lives.
And I say every day with my co-workers and colleagues, and I try to get in their heads that we are in a civil war with business suits and ties right now.
And, you know, anybody who's going up against these neocons or the globalist puppets that have been in office for 30 years or more, you know, all these life or politicians.
These are the same people who led us into Iraq. These are the same people who, you know, who, I mean, they're just unbelievably corrupt.
They've been lying to us for years. And now everybody just wants to, you know, get behind them since they're trying to take down Donald Trump, who's completely anti-establishment, you know.
I mean, I debate every single day to them, you know, with these, my coworkers are very, you know, leftist, but I deal with it every day.
And I get it through their heads, like, you know, the facts are there. These are the same people. These people are absolutely corrupt.
No, see, that's the craziest part about it, though, is that there's people that actually believe it.
I mean, that's the craziest thing to me is that you have people that are so dumbed down, they'll come up to me and they'll say, oh, you're going down for colluding with Russia.
It's like, really, dude? Like, you're that stupid?
But they actually believe this. And the longer this Mueller thing goes on, the longer their belief is going to maintain that there's something there when there is nothing there.
They have found nothing. If they did find anything, they would have leaked it. All they have is some payment to a damn hooker who gets more television time than a veteran that can't even get surgery,
because a VA hospital in Los Angeles can't even get itself cleaned up enough to perform a surgery.
Oh, but let's let in another thousand illegal immigrants and let's focus on torpedoes. Forget the veterans.
All right, more of your calls on the other side. Fourth Hour Alex Jones show. Don't go anywhere.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
I was just about to walk out of the studio to pick my children up and I got some bad news.
For the second time in the five and a half year history of Survival Shield X2, our flagship product,
we are having supply chain problems and this may be the last batch of this.
We have deep earth crystal source that's so pure that it actually turns into purple gas in the atmosphere.
And so in our own search to get the purest form, we discovered that oil companies and gas drilling companies had a byproduct
that they were selling to pharmaceutical companies and also drug makers that they used to make drugs.
And once they figure out there's a market, they start jacking up the price.
But we're offering it still 25% off until it sells out.
Hopefully, just like the last time that's happened a few years ago, it's not an issue and we do get more.
But right now, we are not able to secure the crystals that produce the purest iodine in the world.
But what it does is for stamina, libido, focus, energy is really amazing.
Survival Shield X2 at InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLife.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfowarsLife selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, home style potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfowarsLife selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfowarsLife selects storable foods.
There's only one week left to get 50% off on super male vitality.
We only do this special once a year and it's now 50% off until May 7th.
This is your chance to try super male vitality that has thousands and thousands of 5 star reviews at PowerReviews.com.
The reason super male and super female are so popular is because they work.
We take known documented herbs that super power, energy, libido, stamina, and then we cold press them so they don't lose their essence.
Ladies and gentlemen, super male vitality and super female vitality is now 50% off for a limited time and in FullWarStore.com.
The real red pill that goes great with it is also 50% off and when you get them together, it's free shipping as well.
That's super male vitality at 50% off at InfowarsLife.com or by calling toll free, 888-253-3139.
Super male vitality at 50% off until May 7th, 2018.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Well Donald Trump just knocked it out of the park at the NRA convention in Dallas.
He invoked obviously the Second Amendment, free speech, the nonsense of the Russian collusion probe, a total phony narrative to undermine the president and this country.
Then he compares gun-free London to a war zone and Matt Drudge picks that up and runs with the headline front page.
Red-linked Drudge, Judge, Question, Mueller's Power, and Manafort case basically saying they're lying.
They're only trying to get rid of the president. There's nothing to this Russian thing.
So it's really all coming down. It really is all coming down.
Meanwhile, you've got all of the... I'm not just trying to play partisan politics here.
I'm just saying it how it is. All of these liberal show hosts like Charlie Rose...
I forget there were some, but there's like five of them now that have dozens of women accusing them of sexual assault.
They're getting sued now. These are the same people that were reporting on Trump being a misogynist on Trump abusing women.
No, they're abusing women. They're colluding with Russia. That's them. They are the phonies. They are the liars.
Yeah, Tom Brokaw. There's been like five of them now. So it's really all coming down.
So the question then becomes, and I'm not addressing this to the audience.
It's like, what do the globalists, what does the deep state do next in their final moments of panic?
Do they launch a false flag? Do they release a bio weapon? Who knows what they're going to do?
They are in their last legs right now. This is it. And I've been saying this for a week now.
By the end of June, it's going down. Something big is going down by the end of June. I would predict that.
Now, let's go back out to the phone lines. We've got James calling in from New York.
My question today for the audience, what do you think is the...
What do we do with the Mueller investigation? And how do we not just shut it down, but then even investigate them?
James, what do you think we need to do with the Mueller investigation?
Hi, this is Owen, right?
Yes, go ahead.
Great. Okay. Yes, I'm in New York City. I'm a great fan. I'm a huge fan of you guys.
I live in the Matrix. I mean, I'm riding the bow of the beast.
When I work on Wall Street, I'm riding software. You know, I'm riding the middle of where the Rockefeller stand is.
So with Mueller, everyone in New York, like the news shows in New York, right shows for New York only.
They don't write shows for America. These people are locked in the Matrix.
And when it comes to Mueller, Trump has to go out and continually go to these rallies and identify with the people.
He has to force CBS, NBC, CNN to cover these guys.
He needs to come out and he needs to say, you know what the Mueller investigation is, whatever it's going to be, how it's going to fall?
Your vote didn't matter. These guys are thugs. Your vote doesn't matter.
He needs to say this to the American people and say, this investigation is a fraud.
Well, he already has more or less, James, but I think that you're kind of on to something else here that I've actually heard people call into Rush Limbaugh and suggest.
I'm not sure if I don't know if we've ever suggested something like this.
Trump, though, did mention it. He said, you know, what if we had a march in DC? What if we had a rally in DC?
They shut down the whole city. No, no, no, no. Here's the thing. We don't organize. We don't do this crap.
We don't protest. We got better things to do. We have lives, all right?
And we're not a bunch of wine bags that complain when things don't go our way.
Okay, we go on with our lives. So protesting and marching isn't really something we do.
We have the pro-life march that gets millions of people. But imagine, and Trump could actually do this.
Now, I don't expect this Mueller thing to last past June.
I really think everything in June is about to just blow up and we're going to really see what's going on here.
But if it continues to go on, imagine if Donald Trump says, okay, we're going to set a date and we're going to march in DC.
All of my supporters, we're going to march in DC against Mueller, against the deep state, against the attacks on free speech,
against the attacks on the Second Amendment, all together, just all the conservatives, all the Trump supporters,
coming together one time just to say, you know what, you have your phony women marches,
your phony student marches propped up by George Soros and all these leftist organizations funding millions of dollars to bust you guys in.
We can do that too and we can be bigger and we can be louder and we also get political change through.
So I don't know if that's something that's going to happen. It might be too late now because like I said, I think it's all coming down by the end of June.
Thank you for the call, James. Let's jump to Branson, Missouri, where Eugene is calling in.
Eugene, what do you think we need to do about this Mueller investigation?
Hey, Owen, this is Eugene Roundtree, High Voltage News, and I love the work you guys are doing.
Trey Gowdy and others have said this, it's all up to the executive branch, the DOJ.
The Congress can only do so much. They can only investigate and do things like that.
Yeah, there's no prosecute, there's no prosecute, I can't even say the word, they can't prosecute in Congress.
Yeah, exactly. And so I think all of us have been quite patient for what says his study that he's doing.
It will come out soon. And I think June, like you said, is going to be a good landstone.
But it's all up to them. They needed a little bit of time. They came into a government that's been decades corrupt.
They need to figure out who the bad actors were. Okay, we've given them enough time for that.
But if they wait too much longer via politics or waiting for the perfect timing, I don't know how it's going to pan out.
At this point, they need to pull the trigger on getting out the corruptness that's in the government.
And I know it's a huge spider web. You know it's true as well.
Oh yeah, and we're at the apex right now. If you want to start to kind of throw things around, if this is a cold civil war that we're in right now,
which I mean it essentially is, it's time to do something now.
And that's why I think it's going to happen soon. But this cannot go on any longer.
They are destroying this country. They're dividing this nation. The news has gone so, so whacked out 1984.
Now they're saying that Alex Jones' documentary shouldn't even be on the internet. That's like, you know, Brooke Burning is essentially.
So it's out of hand. I mean something, if we don't stop this, it's only going to get worse.
And that's what my biggest fear is, is what does that mean? What is worse than an unelected investigation,
totally lawless, totally above the country, above the republic, above the constitution.
And then you have the fake news that props it up and then they get all their minions funded by George Soros in the streets.
I mean, what's next? I mean, these people will go to the next level to maintain their corrupt establishment.
I think that they've made that clear. So if Trump or we the people don't pull the trigger on these criminals soon, it's just going to get worse.
Thank you for the call. Eugene, let's jump out to Oklahoma. Go ahead, Bob. What do you think we need to do about this Mueller investigation?
Hi, Owen. How are you today? You seem to be on fire.
Am I smoking right now?
Yeah, you're smoking, man.
Somebody put me on.
Huh?
Go ahead.
What?
I'm sorry.
Anyway, first, I just wanted to say that I'm really proud of you for being a fighter for Liberty and Alex.
I've been a listener for 20 years.
I'm 61 years old.
My name is Liberty Smith on gab. If you want to check me out that being said, I agree with Mr. Corsi, Dr. Corsi.
Trump needs to fire Rosenstein, Mueller, and Sessions right now.
Take the hit right now because they're not going to stop. We already know this.
It's really frustrating to us to hear out in flyover country. I work week to week. I'm an independent contractor.
I see and I listen to all this crud and nothing ever gets done.
So now that's what Mr. Trump can do. That's what our president can do.
No, see, that's it exactly. We felt that Trump was our last hope to actually have a real country that's not run by a bunch of corrupt globalists.
And there isn't a deep state establishment that has their own agenda outside of the agenda of the United States of America and her people.
But that's it.
I don't know if firing Sessions is the answer. I don't know if firing Rosenstein is the answer.
I would actually say I'd lock someone up. That's what I do. I would straight up throw someone's ass in jail.
And I'd say, you know what, we've got you. We know you broke the law. You're getting locked up.
But you know what, I tell you what, if you want to sing about why they said that they need to have an insurance plan for President Trump,
if you want to sing about why Hillary Clinton was colluding with the media to get questions, if you want to sing about all the other corruption that was uncovered in the WikiLeaks,
who knows, maybe you attended a spirit cooking or two, if you want to sing about maybe we can maybe we can make a deal and you don't have to spend the rest of your life in jail.
Otherwise, you know, you're going to rot away in this prison cell and all the people that you colluded with to try to bring this country down.
Well, they're not going to help you because they don't give a damn about you.
So I think that you're onto something there, Bob. Thank you so much for the kind words and your support.
I want to get a quick word from Dr. Kelly in California. You got 40 seconds. Dr. Kelly, make it quick.
Awesome. Thank you. Everyone needs to go and apply at your state capitol for a position on your federal grand jury complain to or get on to your county grand juries.
And let's have a grand jury reawakening.
There is a profile for Robert Swan Muller at the California bar website.
They are foreign agents, not registered with Farah.gov. And they do need to be.
Well, you know what? That's actually interesting because California bar registration and laws are different than the rest of the country.
So I wonder if that has something to do with that.
Robert Muller should not just be disbarred. The guy should be behind bars.
That does it for the Alex Jones show. I'm Owen Troyer. I pick up the war room next. Don't go anywhere.
They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler.
They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.
And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance, all to make them march, make them protest, make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia,
to smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
It is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well. InfoWarsLife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
