Live from Austin, Texas, in the heart of the Resistance, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio
Network. All right folks, we have Joel Scalzen joining us to talk geopolitics at the bottom
of the hour. He is a former Marine Corps officer, naval aviator, best-selling author, patriot,
you know, head of one of the only major conservative groups that ever tried to take the country back.
He's a big fish, but Cleon Scalzen, his uncle, was a high-level FBI section chief, and the guy
that was advising Joe McCarthy and everything, and he was dead on target, but it just was bigger
than he even thought. He's going to join us today, and I meant to cover this Friday, and I didn't
even click that I was getting Joel on today, the 45 goals of communism that got read out in Congress
in 1963. Maybe we should spend some time on that, at least mentioning it, and then get Joel back up
for a full show. Because again, communism is just the ideology of globalist control. Who is behind
it? Why do the Jeff Bezos' and why do the Barack Obama's of the world and the Virgin Atlantic owner,
why do they support it? Well, it's a video we've got coming up that I played twice on Friday,
not for lack of content. I'm going to play it again today.
A woman in a sailor outfit at South by Southwest a month ago was some lady interning as a reporter
for us, and the media is holding this up like she is God, and they say that we were destroyed by
this video, that we removed it because it destroyed us. No, it was uploaded on multiple channels,
and I said, stop duplicating and stop flooding the channels. I said, I looked at like 30, 40
videos, and I said, knock those out. They went, really, they're already going viral, sir. And I
went, I told you, just put them on sub channels, please. That's the exact conversation. But then
they went, oh, Jones is scared of this. No, I'm going to probably air this a few thousand times.
I'm definitely not scared of it in the way you think. I'm scared of it in
that it all crystallized when I watched this video. So that's coming up. And then Roger Stone,
I called Roger on Friday. And I said, Roger, they're saying they've got a mole inside the
Trump administration for Russia. He said, hold on. And I went, no, no, no, no, not
that. Just seeing I'm an idiot, you're going to say, hold on. That's like saying they sued 13
Russians. And then when Mueller shows up at the court case, the Russians show up and he drops the
case or tries to delay it. I get it's like saying, I'm suing Casper, the friendly ghost.
And he goes, well, no, exactly. It's exactly. It's just like they're saying they're suing
all these Russians are suing us or suing me or suing him. And when you have to show up,
they crap their pants because there's nothing there. It's just, it's just, it's hot air.
And he said, no, that's exactly what it is. But he goes, Alex, I told you a year ago
who the mole is. And he told me and I went and I looked it up. And again, by the mole,
this is the guy involved with past Republican administrations that contacted a bunch of junior
campaign staffers that would say, Hey, come to London. I'm going to have you write a paper
for three grand, pay your first class, bring your wife, nice hotel.
And then that individual would then try to say that they said there were Russian contacts.
So we're going to expose the fake mole of Mueller coming up in the last couple of segments of the
second hour. So you got that coming up exclusively. Just like I told you, North Korea wants electricity
nationwide. I told you back on March 8th, and they would already agree to give up their nukes.
They had a certain number and the deal was made because they're being cut out from China
to actually have economic development and they're being checkmated. They can see what
South Korea has done and China's flipping out. Cutting away North Korea from China is a stroke
of genius. Give Pompeo and Trump can do it. And again, I can't believe how blessed I am. Seriously.
That I was given this intel before anyone else, but they said,
we're doing it, Alex, as we know you're under attack. Wow.
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill,
a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate
because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people
$100, $200 for the formulae. And I came up with our own formula, working with some scientists
and developers, non GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen,
you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body
has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available
at m4warsstore.com. And your purchase fugs the operation.
We now take you live to the central Texas command center and the heart of the resistance.
Well, let me tell you right now, I'm very, very excited to be involved in the info war.
I'm very, very excited to be involved in the fight. But I've got a major apology to make
right up here at the front of the broadcast because when I'm wrong, I have to make an apology
right up front because integrity is the only thing I've got. I only make maybe one or two
apologies a year. I make retractions or corrections all the time. We cover thousands of new stories
a week. So maybe once a week there's a retraction. I've been saying for a couple of months, why
is the New York observer attacking Donald Trump saying he's a Russian agent with no evidence?
And then he owns the trust, but he still owns the New York observer. And then one of my crew
walked in and dropped right in my face, an article out of New York from a year ago
that Jared Kushner no longer owns the New York observer.
Boy, did I feel like an idiot. I'm like, man, I read hundreds of articles a day.
I scan hundreds more. I didn't know. I'm like, man, what is Kushner doing? Because it's like
the New York observer is like the worst deceptive rag. He sold it for 15 million. How about they
like negative 15 million? What a piece of crap. So the Hollywood Reporter reported on all that
a year ago. Okay. They reported on again a few months ago. When I'm wrong, I'm going to tell
you I'm wrong because all I've got is my credibility. If I'm saying something, I really believe it.
Now, I started talking about an apology I was going to make and I remember what it was,
but then I remember, I don't remember the gist of what it was going to be. So I have to do it
later in the hour. I'm not doing that as a cliffhanger. I just was, I had all these topics and
that so many times I go live on air and then I have a particular thing I'm going to say,
but then I go, no, I'm going to do this. And then I start talking about the next apology I've got to
make, which are rare. And then I remember what it was about, but I can't do it properly now because
it's not heartfelt. And I had this essence, this essence of what I was going to apologize about.
So I'm sure during a break or something, hopefully I'll remember what it was because I remember the
apology, but I don't remember why it clicked I was wrong. That is so frustrating. That is beyond
frustrating. That is maddening. But that was one I kind of halfway backed off of last week. And then
this one, I remember what the retraction was, but why I decided to make it
and the particulars of it, I'm going to have to sit here and sit back and think for a while.
Those will give you a big headache, won't they? You know, I think I'm going to try
to do this this way right now. Let's talk about who I'm not apologetic to.
I'm not apologetic to Maxine Waters. You know,
Thursday morning, Friday morning, whatever it was, I got up at 6am, went in, drank some coffee,
had an espresso on top of it,
fed the cats, fed the dog.
And then I went in and woke the kids up to cook them breakfast.
And I pulled back. And I was just thinking about how the whole world works and how all
this stuff goes down. And I had an iPad, my wife's iPad, a fancy white case, props up nice,
warm cooking eggs and bacon, packing their lunches. I don't do it every day, but I like
to pack their lunches and cook breakfast at least a couple of times a week because it's fun.
That's the kind of work I like. I like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, you know, stuff like,
it's very relaxing. So I'm in there making little sandwiches and telling my kids to go eat their
food before it gets cold. And I'm sitting back and I see an infoworks.com article at about
seven o'clock go bloop. And it's like Maxine Waters says, I resent, this is in quotes,
I resent make America great again.
And I looked at that headline and it was like Gateway Pundit or something. And I clicked on it.
I thought, I thought surely she didn't say that. Not like I'm looking to get her. I'm like, oh,
I finally got Maxine Waters. Oh, no, I was like, okay, she didn't really say that.
So I watched the four minute clip and I played it on the show that day. But later in the show,
I said, wait a minute, maybe we play like a minute or so with the congressman from Pennsylvania,
said the Republican. I thought maybe he said something bad. So during four different breaks,
because I didn't just believe the crew, they're great people. I went and I watched
the whole remarks on C-span, messing the whole show up. I get obsessed on stuff.
There's all this stuff happening, sir. This person's calling this general's calling.
We have a brain, I'm watching this to see. And the guy's like, we have to come together.
And it's about economics. We all love each other. If you're all working on the floor of a
factory, it doesn't matter what color you are, you're male or female. It's about, you know,
building that car and you're on a team. And we have to transcend that. Because I had this feeling,
I said, there's no way she flipped out so bad. He must have said something horrible. And I played
like a minute of what he said, but I thought, let me be able to really go back. Because I said,
I know she's crazy. She's out of control. She's corrupt. All these 50 something million to her
husband and her bank. And, you know, she's the most corrupt member of Congress and gets away
with it. She's a woman and because she's quote, has black skin or whatever. And so I watched
from the beginning of the guy getting up, took me four breaks.
That's four breaks of a syndicated talk show host watching, going, I hope he said something
bad because I wanted to believe he did something wrong. And what he did was be loving and say,
we should work together. So I later played the whole clip in the third hour of the show. I said,
it's not that she's black. We need to bill black people up or anybody else. It's that she is spewing
all this crap knowingly about you don't know how she's standing up to the white man when she works
for the big multinationals that are screwing everybody over. And I couldn't believe that
there wasn't something that God didn't do anything. I played the clip on Friday. I played the whole
exchange. And she said, I resent make America great again. And that was the thing, man. People
confront me and they go, we're ashamed of you. You know, blah, blah, blah. I used to be this good
guy or whatever. It means nothing to me. I'm actually out for everybody. And I know this
country's got its problems, but the idea is beautiful. And compared to other nations,
it's powerful. And I'm not going to bow down in some virtue signal to her and go along with this.
So, so, so let's play what she said at the end. You can go to see span. You can watch the whole
thing from Thursday that we aired on Friday. But this is someone saying she resents make America
great again. Here it is. However, I don't appreciate that you did not interrupt him when
he was making those outrageous remarks about him knowing more about discrimination than I know
about discrimination. I resent that. And I resent the remark about making America great again.
He's down here making a speech for this dishonorable president of the United States of America,
having said that I reserve the balance of my time. And no, I do not yield not one second to you.
Not one second. Not one second to you. So the act is she stands up to the evil white man.
You know, if I even talk about China, it's not like I'm saying Chinese people are bad.
Communist are bad. They've killed 80 million according to the Communist Party in China.
80 million of their own people. That's Chinese people.
And they're killing millions every year or so. And they got Buddhists and everybody else in forced
labor camps. And it's just her up there like America is the bad guy, like we're doing all
this stuff. And it's this big distraction. And we're all in this bowl just in America
and not talking about anything else that's going on in the world. It's crazy. That's what she paid
to do. Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough. That's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition
to the super blue line. Super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce, three and a half
ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins. With powerful,
yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver sole nano silver for a powerful cleansing
alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable helps
stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available
at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout
by info wars life. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as
valerian root extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful
punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the
pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable
price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars
life.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life.com Alex Jones here to tell you about
how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best
tasting 100 organic coffee on the planet for more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from
the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown
arabica beans we have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend
discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100 organic coffee at info wars life.com this coffee
gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many
other coffees give me personally hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to
secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or
two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune support
infusion blend you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup
of my favorite coffee available at info wars life.com Alex Jones here with an extremely
exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift for the info war to fight
the globalist and live in a free society several years ago I set out with top formulators in the
U.S. to create the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina libido workout brain formula
that is safe I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and
family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at info wars life.com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then
rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha
power exclusively available at info wars life.com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo
it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the USA get your
alpha power today at info wars life.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
you're listening to the alex jones show
i'm alex jones your host this is the sunday live transmission it's 420 central standard time
in 35 seconds we've got joel scowlson who is an amazing researcher one of the smartest guys out
there joining us and by the way i haven't talked to joel in months since he was last on we don't
have pre-interviews beforehand like cnn or fox news does hey what are you going to talk about
what's your view this is what we're looking for i have people that i respect that i know a research
that i know are patriots and i hear their views and that's why they hate us if you ask why maitre
media lies about us why george soros is suing us why hillary clinton is why she calls me the dark
cart because i don't have a dark heart folks i really care about people and they know that and
they're scared now that said ahead of him joining us there's an incredible article
that the daily mail has
it's also in red state it's also from press tv but it's the iranians so we can roll some
in the background maybe well i talk about it but this is coming up with roger stone and you
talk about the craziness and the average person would read this and think well wait a minute give
the i a total is the dictators the religious islamic shia dictatorship it's the first islamic state
in modern times but it's not well hobbyist out of iran they're trying to copy that it's it's shiai
which means again they track it back to muhammad and the whole lineage and the rest of it
they are saying because they have elections but they decide who can run so it's it's like communism
with the current dictator of china the polar bureau the central committee decides he can
run and then he has rules saying they can do it they have come out and i said this a few weeks
ago i said listen because i could see what trump was saying i didn't get this from any sources
well i i did get some of it from sources after but to be technical
trumps like it's a horrible deal it's terrible and then i saw surrogates the president
start pointing out that reportedly payoffs were made well we already knew that back at the time
that's what the iranians do so obama and the arab spring and the muslim brotherhood and all of it
in iran they're just taking money from anybody that's what globalism is to sell your country out to
anybody and so here's the headline iran's foreign minister threatened to expose western diplomats
who took bribes to create the iran nuclear deal wow so see we know they're developing nuclear
weapons we know they've already got nuclear weapons i um well i'll just say it he's retired now but
this is the age of just putting them all out there i had a family member who was in special
operations 35 years in the army and i remember sitting around the deer camp 12 years ago
eating um you know venison we'd shot the day before cook at the big cook deal and he said
alex he said the reason we're not hitting iran is they're persians they got real terror networks
and they got five atomic weapons they don't have a delivery system but if they try to deliver icbms
we're gonna hit them and then and by the way people i've known family they never tell me anything
i mean that cousin might have told me six seven things
in all the years i've known him because he's probably like 10 years old when i was born
and he told me that and he said that's the danger he said he said but if they try to
develop icbms we're gonna hit them and he wouldn't get into it but he'd been part of the planning
of how they're gonna hit tey run and all he was just saying no i've been part of the planning
what's gonna some of the scenarios and he was like we're looking at their sleeper cells in the us
and i said like what you know another cousin dumping chemicals down high rises air conditioning
vents another cousin looked at me and he said and there are people working all the airports
putting bombs on airplanes how about a hundred airplanes done in one day and i just remember
talking to all these people in my family and realizing these were all the defenders of the
republic and they'd already been briefed on what the issue was iran with iran it's not like iraq
where it's some you know backwards fallen destroyed system and you know all this this is real folks
and that's the issue and trump moves against them knowing that people are people are then gonna say
well why then would they threaten obama to get at trump why would they threaten in a statewide tv
show that we just showed of your radio lister you didn't see it in the background we just showed
some we'll play something in a minute why would they threaten obama you think obama you know you
think trump wants to get obama no no no they're telling obama and the deep state you take out
trump that that's the headline iran is saying we're blackmailing obama with how we paid him off
if you and your deep state don't take out trump we're gonna expose it that's the takeaway
and that's how iran thinks and so there they're saying we paid you off we bought you off we made
a deal we will expose those deals if you don't roll over to us how sick is that and i was told 12
years ago and i've said it since i've been told by good sources i ran as five weapons and i went
further with other sources i was told us and said yeah we've got spectrometers and aircraft
that can fly over and scan this stuff even underneath mountains because it leaks out
vents and we know what they've got and we even know the isotope and we know pakistan helped them
and we know russia helped them and it was obama with russia and trump knows that there's your
russia collusion here let's play a little bit of the current puppet dictator of iran installed by
the moolas uh this is uh this is a breakdown that here here's a minute or so of that it's up on
info wars dot com here it is and for all we will neither outsource our security nor will we renegotiate
or add on to a deal we have already implemented in good faith to put it in real estate terms
when you buy a house and move your family in or demolish it to build a skyscraper you cannot
come back two years later and try to renegotiate the price in the coming days the united states
will have to decide whether to finally abide by its obligations iran stands firm in the face
of futile attempts at bullying but if the us continues to violate the agreement
or if it withdraws altogether we will exercise our right to respond in a manner of our choice
let's just stop right there and he goes into all the threats
go ahead and dump chlorine gas in the buildings dude we're going to nuke your whole damn country
but i'm just saying that's the point this has gotten to and this is the point with
obama and the globalists that want an ongoing strategy of tension like north korea trump
saying it's over it's done and the globalists hate it because they want to keep the crisis going
trumps like no it's not going to continue now i don't know what jill scowles is going to say
i'm going to agree with me disagree but we're going to cover it all one of the top experts in
my view one of the smartest guys out there on geopolitics north korea iran former rink or aviator
bestselling author editor of the world's affairs brief straight ahead i'm alan shones with news
wars dot com nim full wars dot com the boy that's 45 minutes and roger stone joins us with the
identity of the mole the fake mole from the fbi inside the trump camp western europe has already
banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down over the uk they're set to
pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays you'll get six months in prison we know
we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn and many others are
calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a professor and others
saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the most hated
news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com
or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free
open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action
and i know you will
vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years
with our chemist and scientist to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin
formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full
month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs
in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x2 super veil vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of
multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral
fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that
means it's pure and rest secured you're funding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info
wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out guaranteeing
your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters
or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars
life select storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better
place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work
great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for
you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're
stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select
storable foods hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage
with harvest rights freeze dryers go to info wars store dot com to learn more and check out this
innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is perfect
for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals
whoo that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation
like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison
harvest right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation
harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting
for check it out right now at info wars store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
you know i'm not a guy that gets dramatic for no reason everybody knows that they know if i
say something that ends up coming out the news a month later one of our sources in cent com
who's hooked up with space command and space x and elon musk and he's getting ready to go public
very very soon uh the fake qanons already leaked a photo of him 10 years ago in army special operations
because i've talked to the general involved and he told me this is the person you talk to
we're talking general general not just your regular general he got attacked by three guys last night
but there was some type of federal police watching and they were ready for it and they stopped it
so i'm not trying to be dramatic here but i want you to understand folks this is a real war
this is not a game there's a reason i don't even go out to dinner i hardly go anywhere anymore i just
go right home and i'm not trying to be dramatic here but you see hillary calling me dark heart
you see georgetown the vatican suing me you see all this stuff going on i've got top dc lawyers
that represented the bushes and they told me uh it's not off record they told me two weeks ago
they said okay we thought you're being a little paranoid saying this is a big conspiracy against
you they said this is the end the first amendment you've been chosen and this is happening and they
said and our firm supports you other firms got scared and got threatened and backed out
this is the maximum attack right now okay and i'm not up here going on mr billy bad but okay
i know how bad the globalist are so i'm committed to do this because i realize that there's no
future if we don't this is not done out of being a tough guy it's not done out of i've got all the
answers it's done out of i'm not a satanist that i mean i'm perfect but i'm not a satanist now somebody
who's also not a satanist is joel scousen one of the top developers of uh secure homes best-selling
author we sell his film and his book uh on uh how to prepare yourself how to get ready and
you know the facts behind but that's a separate issue he's the editor of world affairs brief
dot com you can all get a copy of his free newsletter he's sending out with inside intel editor at
world affairs brief dot com and we've we've not talked in a month or two or since he was last on
whenever it was a month two months three months i don't remember so this is not some script interview
we don't do that as i said earlier but he's a former marine corps aviator a patriot his uncle
at the fbi helped expose the whole globalist plan for macarthur and everybody up front
that's all been proven to be right we we republished this it's been out for years the 1963
congressman um bed in the congressional record the secret 45 goals of communism leaked to congress
that's on info wars dot com you read that that's what's happening now so he's with us for uh four
segments this segment and others yeah four segments and then and then we've got roger stone is going
to expose the mole does it mean there's other moles there may be but this is the mole we've
known this for a year he didn't want to release it until now um the folks at uh the folks at daily
caller figured it out and and and so we're going to go ahead and release who the fbi we see fbi
we mean globalist mole in the trump campaign was and of course it's now stormy daniels it's now
nor virus and at and t deals there's nothing russian it's all complete hokam but again joel
scousen joins us to get i want to have him back later this week with me for a full hour if i'll
do it just on the goals but i wanted to tell you about that info wars dot com because we've not
talked in months out of the gates here sir whatever you want to hit first uh with north korea with
the iran deal i know you were on hold while i was talking about the north korean uh you know situation
also the iranian selected president saying we'll release who we paid off and in the obama
administration people say well good what's the threat there well i i think correct me if i'm wrong
i respect you i mean i really i want listeners to know i respect you there's not a lot of folks
that actually think may no more than i do you're one of them that sounds like a threat you better
get rid of trump you better do something or we're gonna blow your whole operation wide open is that
accurate or what is uh joel scousen have to say i'm not familiar with that quote alex can you read
read me that again please yeah it's a red state article it's in a couple others iranians foreign
minister basically threatens to expose western diplomats who took bribes to create the iran
deal he just said hey we made deals we'll expose those deals if you don't go along with us and to
me there's no leverage over trump the leverage is having telling them we're the jigs up you better
move against trump i mean maybe you see some other angle there what do you what do you see there
yeah i don't i think that's got to be disinformation and the reason i say that is because the us
approached iran on that deal iran didn't bribe its way in or try to get the us to make a deal iran
was shocked when the us came and said hey let's make a deal and we're going to make it easy for you
so this was a one one-way street okay now remember you saying that so what's behind it
well the thing that's behind it is that uh and i outlined this in the briefs that you mentioned
that people can get a free copy of it they email me at editor at worldaffairsgreek.com i i go through
an entire timeline of how the us uh was demanded by israel to take down syria before they attack
iran iran has always been the target the globalists don't want a muslim country that's going to be
self-sufficient in weapons no but i agree with you so let's look you're in a plenty of time here
but let's back this up then why did they help then with the with the hostage stuff in the iran
contra and and and then you got operation praying manus which wasn't for him i mean this kind of
goes back and forth doesn't it well no that that goes way too far back that's not related to this
iran nuclear deal the iran hostage cases and all there's been a lot of different administrations
within iran that made sure so quantify for me then and i'll let you have the floor here but
what is the point of what's currently going on then with iran what do you think trump really wants
here's the point trump he doesn't want anything he just knows what he's told to say uh he's he
has no knowledge about the iran deal he doesn't know it's in the substance of it he's been told
that it's a bad deal and he has to get out of and he's done that but here's the backstory here and
this is very very important by the way i'm going to give you the for the next segment people are
getting mad at me interrupting but i agree with you trump's knowledgeable and free market and america
and all this other stuff but when it comes to your political he does don't have the knowledge
so he's being led around i agree with you so so let's elaborate on that so what happened is is that
uh israel said to the globalist we're not going to attack iran until you take care of syria they got a
thousand scud missiles they got chemical weapons they can obliterate us if iran and its allies retaliate
after we strike this was clear back in 2011 or 12 and so in 2013 the us decided they were going to
attack iran they first of all engineered all of the disruption in egypt and libya through their
um overthrowing of qaddafi and the government of uh of egypt to create a lot of these muslim people
that they could bring in the radicals to bring into syria to be the rebels wow you're saying the
arab spring isn't about flooding europe with islamicist it's mainly about toppling iran
it was both there's two agendas there but the major agenda uh you know has been to create
enough radical is um that they could take down syria and create a habit but there's also that
agenda flooding israel with and that was part of the all of the conflict creation in the middle east
to flood the middle east and destroy western culture there but the main point that we have to
understand is that they were going to use the red line of chemical weapons uh on Assad in order to
justify this attack and so they engineered a chemical weapons attack in gupta the suburb of
demasca but it was done by the rebels and it was blamed on Assad and we've talked about that on your
show before Assad never would be stupid enough to use chemical weapons oh i should add you you said
three four weeks ago it was staged it's now admitted in german news british news even trumps
pulled back white helmet support that that last chemical attack didn't even happen the other three
were staged by the rebels but now that this one didn't even happen exactly it wouldn't have they
just hosed down some people and then cried out chemical attack and brought out the cameras this
was a white helmet you know uh piece of work yeah yeah it was a production but the point is clear
back in 2013 on the gupta attack they blamed it on Assad the usn you'd cross the red line we're
going to attack john carrey gets before a london press conference and a reporter says hey mr carrey
it looks obvious you're going to attack syria is there anything syria can do to stop this and
carrey who was rambling all through this turn the chemicals over yeah he says you know give up the
chemical what they won't do it but give up the chemical weapons that we wouldn't attack and russia
and syria said we accept so he was stuck the globalists were stuck and while they tried to discredit
the the handing over the chemicals the international community certified that they had given up all
the chemical weapons and so that's why the us had to have an excuse now it's going to take years now
to take down syria we're going to have to bring in all these rebels from other countries to overthrow
syria all right stay there i've got where you're going you're on target kill scousins our guests
world affairs brief dot com alex jones news wars dot com we're going to look at this live
when we come back it's complex the truth is complex we're going to break it all down with the top
experts straight ahead stay with us nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive
health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic
acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help
feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout
the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call one eight
eight eight two five three three one three nine i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to
spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com
you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you
purchase the products at info wars store dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got
the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and
you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr
jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple eight
two five three three one three nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands
with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies
and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we
need your support alex jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide
while also enjoying what i have found to be the best tasting 100 organic coffee on the planet for
more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern mexico where
the chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans we have now managed to secure the
sought-after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100
percent organic coffee at info wars life dot com this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for
hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally hands down
this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the chiapas mexican
farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or two and i don't think you're going to be disappointed
available in original or with our immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press
all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at info wars life
dot com they use their media to assassinate real news they use their schools to teach children that
their president is another hitler they use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award
shows to repeat their narrative over and over again and then they use their ex president to endorse
the resistance all to make them march make them protest make them scream racism and sexism and
xenophobia and homophobia to smash windows burn cars shut down interstates and airports bully and
terrorize the law abiding until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop
the madness and when that happens they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage the only way
we stop this the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies
with a clenched fist of truth i'm the national rifle association of america and i'm freedoms
safest place you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny well so does he
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones so a lot of people
will become experts on baseball they become experts on football or they become experts
on the business they're involved in shelling insurance or uh being a dentist working on
people's teeth or maybe being a farmer or a computer programmer i've tried to become an
expert on geopolitical systems cultural systems and how things work and i've found that you've
got a bunch of occultists that want to control humanity and basically act like gods who want
to dump people down well i want the opposite i want to empower people i want to see people
living out their own destiny having free will but to do that we've got to be supported
the reason the global estate info wars is not because i'm that good even though my heart's
in the right place it's because we have guests on dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of them
a month that are smart like jones scowles and we're about to go back to and they don't want
real talks they don't want real discussions remember last year last december we got the
google documents they were spending millions of dollars to delist info wars and ron paul alex
jones ron paul it said look at the fake news they claim that u n and others say no chemical
attack happened and it was staged by the rebels we want them banned google said that's a real document
we're sorry we're not going to do it now they went ahead with the delisting so that's an example
ladies and gentlemen of how they're at war with memory so if you want to support us just like
informationally we're game changing supplements t-shirts books films water filters air filters
storeable foods whatever we promote and sell i go and check out and make sure it's really high quality
info or store.com we have the fluoride free and four to five o'clock little slover and iodine adult
and children's toothpaste made by the top organic manufacturer in the country discounted we have the
immune gargling three sizes we have the we have the mouthwash and we also have bodies 95 percent
curcumin and level curcumin and is the chemical that is in turmeric the anti-inflammatory and so
much more it's 50% off check those out info or store.com and when you purchase the products you
stand against the globalist and their censorship when you use your free will to get products you
need and fund us they're apoplectic they don't know what to do because of our personal relationship
and what we're doing or when you sign up at our free newsletter info wars.com forward slash newsletter
we can directly email you youtube facebook twitter can't stop that or worldaffairsbrief.com
editorworldaffairsbrief.com we'll sign up there get his free newsletter it's incredible intel
so i said i'd give you the floor i was interrupting a lot because i wanted to go right to where i was
thinking to your specific answer this segment the next you got the floor we'll do one more segment
for a free for all on north korea and the and trump in general uh but again joel scowles and
great patriot editor of worldaffairsbrief.com now you've got the floor i want to interrupt the next
seven minutes i ran all of this how's it tied together what's currently happening remember
that iran was in the u.s was in the attack mode against iran ever since 2006 or so three aircraft
carrying groups opera ran threatening to attack waiting for israel to trigger it that got put
on hold with the syria them saying we got syria taken out first once that got them put on hold
with the chemical weapons abandonment treaty the u.s knew it was going to take about three years to
get rid of syria to get back on track against iran and so they had to have a public excuse to stand
down from the attack mode against iran that's why they went to iran and said let's make a deal
and we'll make it easy for you iran was shocked how easy the u.s was saying it but there was a
trap involved there were three legs of the negotiation three different negotiations sessions
on the very first one they said you have to give up just 20 percent of your centrifuges
and a little bit of enrichment give up some of this and iran said hey that's a good deal and
we'll get rid of the sanctions fine we agree then the u.s went on the press tour right after that
and said iran has agreed to give 50 percent of those centrifuges up and 80 percent of their
rich uranium and ran said no we didn't and we've got the transcripts to prove it but because they
wanted those sanctions off so bad they were hurting the country so bad including humanitarian supplies
iran went along with it well the u.s did this two other times to them the second round they went
and falsified what they had agreed to and iran went along with it and they said hey we got a good
thing going there we could push iran further than what we think so in the third round they added the
trap that is they added a ban on conventional missile development into the iran nuclear agreement
what does that got to do with the nuclear weapons well they said we'll tie this because these are
nuclear capable missiles therefore we want you to ban them and iran never did sign off on that
and the u.s and iran never did sign the agreement the u.s took it to the un with their version
including the missile ban and got the un security council to pass that agreement now iran went along
with it even though they haven't signed it because they got their hundred eighty five million dollars
back and the u.s keeps telling me telling the american public that they gave 185 billion dollars to
iran as a reward for signing the deal that is false that was iran's money that the u.s had
confiscated your frozen in accounts that's right now the trap was about nuclear missiles and you'll
notice and a lot of yeah trump obsesses over the icbm's all right that's what he's been told this
is what's dangerous about iran and the u.s has tried to make the case two times in the un that
iran's nuclear or their iran's ballistic missile testing is like north korea these are nuclear
capable and therefore they're a violation of the agreement tried to get the un to go against iran
iran the un refused they said no iran is right the the the these are not nuclear capable they don't
have any connections to nuclear weapons so they do not qualify now so what this meant is the u.s
decided this the trap failed they were going to use this agreement the nuclear agreement not to
give anything to iran they're going to make it easy for iran to comply so that they could
go back to iran when they were ready to by the way just briefly the reason i agree with you is
we've sided with the wahhabis in saudi arabia and this muslim civil war even though on the surface
obama was acting like he's for iran he's been opening the middle east up with the arab spring
he's been backing saudi arabia for their takeover of egypt uh libya syria you name it so that fits
into what you're saying is they were double crossing that's right so once the trap had failed
that's when they put the pressure on trump to say uh this agreement is bad you need to
pull out of the agreement what's the purpose of pulling out they want to induce iran to start
enriching against start their nuclear weapons program again so which iran's saying they're
going to do it so you're saying iran's leading in the trap look iran's saying they're going to do it
but they're not admitting that there's a weapons program they're not going to give the u.s the
smoking out look iran has said we're going to retaliate against israel for attacking our bases
in syria they've said that twice now and they've never done it and i have written in my world
for his brief has said look watch out iran this is a trap they just want you to retaliate by the
way i want to be clear here just so i can understand you're absolutely right the media is like four
days ago iran's going to strike israel then israel hits iranian bases south of damascus show and i'm
not anti-israel either but what's going on in israel why is this happening you got to remember
israel is a globalist puppet i mean netanyahu's a kissinger protege a kissinger paid for his
education in the u.s he's only masquerading as a pro-settler right-wing prime minister
and he's got a lot of corruption problems and he's been able to forego those with this thread of
iran here but you see israel is claiming self-defense we have to defend ourselves but it's israel that
has been attacking syria they've had they've had over 150 attacks against syria and no retaliation
until last week when israel one of the iranian bases launched some short-range and by the way
my sources in the pentagon say they they think that was a false flag they think those those
20 rockets were not iran well they may well be because iran said they didn't do it but the point is
israel retaliated with striking 70 targets in syria over what one little military outposts
in the golan height got hit with no deaths we're about to go to break but but we're gonna come back
you'll have the floor to break this down joe scowles and world fair brief editor what's the
bigger picture then i mean well how does this feed into the larger picture well the bigger picture
is that they've got to get to iran there is that big creating conflict to have flood europe with
refugees but they also want to build the image of the us is the bully of the world and that's what
they've been doing by intervening around the world in the middle east in iraq in now in iran and
they're going to obliterate iran's infrastructure someday pretty soon i'm expecting an attack on
iran to materialize probably within the month but this will not be the trigger to world war three
that's still reserved for north korea which we can talk about all right joel scowles is one of the
smartest guys out there folks so we're gonna talk to him for a few segments next hour this is really
serious i think trump means well he's doing a great job many fronts the globalist hating but
he i mean i get it he's like a he's a real estate magnet he's in there listening to people around him
and he just has done does not have the research i don't say that i can elitist i that's just a
fact and they're playing on that please tell your friends and family tune in next hour starts now
the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the
most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one
of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties
our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric
with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full
body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three
three one three nine staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce
three and a half ounce and 60 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or
wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet
simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the
spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info
wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
he aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side you're listening to alex
jones we'll get into north korea and the bigger geopolitical connections here but i'm during the
last little two minute break i was talking to jones calzen who is a really smart guy
from a rinkor aviator officer smart you know best selling author his uncle exposed the whole
globalist program hopefully i want to get him up the producer set this up for a full hour to talk
about 45 communist goals 1963 all this came true that his uncle got on the congressional record
playing on scousin and listen it's not that i'm a tough guy joe it's that i realized the evil of
the globalist so that's why i have to fight him we were talking to the break about how they're
coming after info wars how they're trying to destroy us we'll cover the other subject but
the four minutes we have left you're making us a point why do you think the listeners understand
they're so after this broadcast you know the biggest weapon that they use alex in suppressing
truth is omission to make sure that you never hear the truth they'll talk around it though
i mean it's just like fox news fox news talks about conservative issues but they will never
touch conspiracy conspiracy is the golden standard of truth now it is the ultimate thing
that people have to know about what really is going to save us it doesn't matter what you do in
terms of sessions or trump or anything else unless you understand how the deep state really works
how deep the conspiracy runs with congress with the courts with law with the legal profession
with the medical profession with all of these things that are tied together it has to be credible
information and that's what they fear most out of info wars you are the largest voice
of conspiratorial truths and that doesn't mean that you get everything perfectly right all of us
are flawed remember this is a secret conspiracy we're trying to ferret out the information from
the edges without plants and disinformation from insiders we always have to combat that and i know
you do too but you know it's amazing how they come out against anyone who speaks about conspiracy
Sean Hannity for example is very very good on fox news about conservative issues and defending
trump etc but if you ever utter the word conspiracy or a hint that you're going in that direction
he'll come out like a lion against you because he's been told that he's a good guy i want to get
an inside baseball you have to write so here i am like a man taken drink before you know the gallows
what you're a smart guy i mean this what should i do to get myself ready for whatever's coming
all the attacks it's it's it's getting really intense and not only makes you want to fight
harder but i don't know what to do against this level of evil well you have to do what all of us
do in this movement you have to watch out for entrapment they are watching us day and night
they're following they're watching every conversation no i agree but i don't i mean i'm
i'm pretty boring i mean that's what i'm saying there's nothing there well you've got to be careful
that there's nothing there i mean you have to really watch it and i know that you're trying
to be careful i try to be very careful but they really do need some big scandal to take you down
and ban you from the internet now i think you're doing the right thing by going towards quality
product sales in order to bypass this censorship for your financial interest on youtube and google
and everything else uh and that's the price of being big and strong is there you're going to be
the number one target you are the number one target but well i agree i don't feel sorry for
myself i'm just wondering i i just feel like i should be doing more i just like being the target
it's like what am i supposed to do i don't feel like i'm this big threat i don't feel big like
what am i supposed to do the only thing i would say was to is to be very very careful about people
who are talking to you who are claiming to be insiders i agree i go i think q non for example
is a disinformation expert uh i think he's telling people what they want he's anybody
who pervades this message anyone claiming to be in the white house or the inside that there's
going to be a coup against the beach state that they're going to take down the beach state that
they've got military hold on this is powerful i want to hear what you have to say about q and
august this is the deal i had white house sources and all hell broke loose at levels i can't even
say personally it was hard you're right no one has these sources or they get attacked we'll talk about
it straight ahead
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better
way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins
and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the
fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and
support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
look from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
show there was a time about a year and a half ago when the president was first in office
that i knew for a fact every night he would ask people for specific downloads of the show to
see what i said and if i said here's a message the president he would watch it and i talked to him
about those things but then they made it a big deal not to talk to me and it's not like i'm trying to
reach out and talk to president like that's some big deal i i talked to god every day and he ever
said love christ you know that so the president's way down the list of that but they they went kind
of crazy and the last few times i talked to president last year towards the end of the year
it was very quick just keep it up i appreciate what you're doing and don't stop what you're doing i
appreciate you and i told the president just like i told him when he called i got remarried
he called and thanked my wife and everything i said sir you don't have to do this i want to be
pat on the head if you got info and he's like well alex you know don't worry about john mccain
we're going to move forward we're going to country grade again he knows he's being recorded so it's
not about me who rejects hollywood and all this stuff trying to be next to power it's that
trump is trying to be good i believe but joel scowles is a really smart guy world the first
brief the editor-in-chief of that and we were talking about the attacks that we've come under
at info wars and the lies they've said and the things they've done i mean if i could tell the
listeners which i can't do this family's asking not to and i'm not whining i'm not complaining
it's just you think you're ready to face evil until you face it and they it's spiritual they
it's like agent smith in uh the matrix where it jumps into people that's basically what it's like
which makes you even love god more and want to be good more but then it's so evil and out of
control you don't even know what to do is from the eight months we have left all scowles and
specifically because i know the president still occasionally sees the show what would you say
the president what would you get into north korea you got cut off by the break uh getting into their
disinformation operations what we should worry about just in the last eight months we have left
your big smart is your smart guy download for folks but what i would tell the president was first of
all you have to understand that the deep state created isis they created al-qaeda and they run
the rebels and they run arms that you already being told about they are creating two bases on
sovereign territory and syrian government which you have never been told about they said this
needs to stop syria isn't your enemy either is iran if you would back off you would find that iran
would start to be more reasonable now i mean but the point is he's my biggest warning of course
would be about north korea i would tell him you're being set up for a psychological operation
by them touting or offering you a Nobel peace prize by them offering to have a final truce
over a full peace treaty on north korea by offering you a denuclearization there is no
way that trump in june 12 at this meeting in singapore is going to get anything concrete
to prove denuclearization i mean the dismantling of the test thing is a falsehood the test
center for nuclear weapons collapsed through earthquakes i mean this is just a throwaway
to say that we're going to dismantle this the earth is dismantled it i didn't think of that you
just said it it was six months ago the earthquake collapsed that they're going to blow up the entrance
of a collapsed space that's exactly right so you see this is a throwaway and trump is being fooled
by these types of everyone is around him is telling me look you're winning this is a success you're
going to be a hero you're going to get a Nobel peace prize they are setting him up psychologically
to look the other way at the fact that he's not going to get anything concrete i don't know
what could you get i have told him in the world affairs brief if he ever reads that thing which
i don't think he does i said what you need to do at that meeting in june 12th it says
you have two weeks to allow international inspectors to come in and take possession
of your nuclear weapon experimental or nuclear experimental well let me stop you you may have
missed it the south korean news reports and i made a phone call to sent com they said no that's true
Pompeo has demanded five nukes to be dismantled in paris so what you just said is what trumps
according to my sources that have never been wrong is happening but still that's not enough
what i'm just saying you need international inspect to take possession and go actually
and occupy the factories it doesn't matter taking a few nuclear weapons out and dismantling sure
what do you make of Pompeo saying we're going to send in private interest to rebuild north korea
because the north scott want to be the south the most productive country in the world i mean
i want to believe in this deal joe you're saying it's a screw job yeah it is there's never been
a communist country that is ever disarmed ever and i include in that the phony fall of the
sub union they never disarmed during that fall of the sub union but this is going to be a trap i
think china is so interested in delaying this attack on north korea because they aren't ready
to follow through with world war three i think they're willing to even if trump pushes them to
take possession of those new pure weapons that's the easy way out because they can bring them right
back when they want sure they can roll them across the border well you've always said towards 2022-25
that was the plan china now says they're they're they're they're they're doc they're doctrine is
to be ready to attack us in 2020 yeah that's probably a little bit early uh remember russia's
got to be ready to they both got to get a much bigger blue water navy to be able to occupy sure
is there and they're launching the new carriers is there any way to get them to stop this this is
insane i mean well you've got to remember the problem is the globalists really want this third
world war they want a nuclear preemptive strike they want new population they want to end it all
well they don't want to end it all they i mean i mean in the current order yeah and the current
order is that the us defends the world they want the us military decapitated so they can get out
of there but no no a new power emerges with all their deep state and a militarized global
government is what we've got to have and who's going to say nay when you've been new then let me
you're one of the smartest guys on strategic relocation and we sell your books in force for
dot com let me then selfishly i see all the globalist moving cook islands kawaii uh new zealand i knew
this 10 years ago from sources that are in hollywood now it's confirmed if i'm going to be a selfish
person and i'm going to tell the audience i'm really doing this selfishly i intend to try to
stay here and fix things if we can but southern hemisphere i don't see that surviving in the
year war joel you're a global expert on relocation where in the world can i take my children and my
wife if i don't want to die a nuclear holocaust well you've got to be in the united states uh
for the long term in the short term any place in south america is going to be freed from a nuclear
holocaust but it's not going to it's not going to survive the cutoff of the economy those countries
are all which is equivalent of a zombie apocalypse that's right those those countries are all social
as they depend on influence you predicted in on air 10 years ago the venezuela collapse
that would be eating people it's now happening and don't go to new zealand in australia australia
so come back on this week why are the elites fleeing there then i mean i was told this by
multi billionaires years ago come to new zealand with us they're all leaving there joel what what
are that what are they told they're not in the know they may be elite but they're not in no i agree
with you so tell me you you are in the oh tell me well i'm telling you that china's going to occupy
australia during this next war they've owned all the mineral rights they're not well they've said
they are so so what i'm asking you is why are the globalists moving to new zealand i mean
it that's because there are there are globalists that are wealthy elite that are being used and
part of the system but they're not in the no i agree they're not on the inside group so
what about kawaii because zuckerberg's there schmitz there a lot of that that's where a lot of the
wheel so none of these people they're they're a yes man to the global new world order but they
don't know the war agenda that's going to be for no i agree with you so i don't know i mean where
should i go the safest place in the united states or when this happens is what i call the inner
mountain west everything from northern arizona up to montana idaho utah wyoming those areas it's not
just geography it's the people it's the people it's low population density it's hundreds of miles from
big population centers i mean that's so tell me right now if i want to relocate just off the top
the back of an envelope where do i go well it's more complex than that because i know but if i
got to go where do i go with my family right now boom i would say idaho
yeah that's what everybody says northern i don't know well no uh i like this i like central and
and southern i hope better than nor the northern is a lot of california is there it's very liberal
for it yeah well they'll all get wiped out in the first month so we're not trying to shoot our
mouths open the weather the weather's better in the in the southern and central part of it
all right till scow's and powerful information we're all the first brief dot com
thank you so much my friend we really appreciate you good to be with you alex it's good to not
be on the team of satan we'll be back info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely
excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun
is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil
from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3
content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely
low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3
the research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories
is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com
about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports
our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today
or call 888-253-3139 western europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship
is descending down over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam
or gays you'll get six months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's
happening in the uk cnn and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web
slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against
info wars psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say
we are the most hated news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to
info wars dot com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact
with you and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free
open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know
you will hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain
its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest
rights freeze dryers go to info wars store dot com to learn more and check out this innovative
and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is perfect for
freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals who that's
what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning
or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison harvest
right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have
a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right
is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out
right now at info wars store dot com info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
introducing pollen block we have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort
and respiratory function in the 1960s researchers in france notice that people who ate certain
quail eggs experience less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses they began studying this
effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research a fast
acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms pollen block is
natural and effective it is not an antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually
acts by blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe head to infowarslife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets
you're listening to the alex jones show
and it is sunday night for the next few segments roger stone joins us to break down some exclusive
information now i don't think it's pearls before swine how much exclusive information we load
out of the public here on this broadcast but this is particularly inside intel that's why
they fear this broadcast it's why the establishment attacks it continuously because we are not control
now we know that there have been giant disinformation campaigns going on against the
white house and we know that there's been these big lawsuits and criminal charges filed by
a Mueller this clinton operative and now people actually showing up in court challenge him he's
trying to drop the cases so it's the same thing here when we say we're going to expose who is the
supposed mole inside the trump campaign it's like being a mole at your sunday church service who saw
the preacher give a sermon or a mole that you know watch your wife cook eggs in the morning
or a mole who saw you you know put your kids books in their book bag and drop them off at school it's
not like oh there's a mole of something illegal but we know who is connected to the establishment
and who was trying to get people early on in the trump campaign to say things that were incriminating
and who was bringing up russia first we know who patient zero is and so exclusively here we're
going to tell you who the smart money's on as the supposed mole and joining us from new york
in his studios there is roger stone former head of the trump campaign worked in five administrations
and of course is the best-selling author roger thanks for joining us how it's great to be here
well start rolling with it you're the expert on this let's let's let's let's announce who we believe
is the so-called mole who were who reported nothing well first of all let's stop and reflect for a
moment on the stunning news that the fbi planted a spy inside the presidential campaign of the
republican candidate for president this is a tip of the iceberg of the larger scandal regarding
the use of the state capacity for surveillance and authority for surveillance and through the use of
fice phony fice awards this next shoe to drop the the fbi plant inside the trump campaign
is stunning news now there's a guessing game going on in official washington as to who the
operative is i've examined all of the evidence and discussed the matter with colleagues and
i believe that is most likely that the deep mole is steve helper now who is steve helper first of
all he is the son-in-law of a legendary bush neocon operative ray clines uh steve helper was the
chief chief foreign policy advisor to presidential candidate george hw bush uh when he ran against
ronald reagan in 1980 uh his wife his father-in-law and he have all extremely uh deep ties to the
deep state to the cia to the national security council uh into that entire uh intelligent i
should add he's the one we know with three different people out of the blue saying let me
fly in here to discuss russia are you russian operative you know anything about russians
now uh i actually have met steve helper because former nra president david keen had a floating
crap game at his home uh and i was a sometimes a tender helper was a very good poker player
he is a duplicitous very smart and deeply deeply committed to the globalist agenda he has an
effacing kind of shrub personality that i think really hides a uh a steel trap mind and a capacity
for exactly this type of activity so clearly this man and miss man is a psychotic well he is very
very bright he's very ambitious he was appointed to high positions in both the bush and reagan
administrations uh he is it was deeply committed uh to the uh to the the new the one world agenda of
the bushes we have a photo him uh here unclothed classified we're releasing now extremely handsome
i should add well uh he's a very self-effacing kind of likable guy we make sarcastic we're
showing the image of a naked mole right now as a joke sorry sorry roger i can't help it that's
okay uh so um but this stunning news alex shows that their whole phony edifice is starting to
crumble look they call me a dirty trickster the russian collusion hoax which is covering up the
biggest uh assault on our civil liberties in american history the largest scandal in american
history and that's the biggest dirty trick of all time and you know they're now getting called on it
uh this is just another major piece of evidence the fbi penetrating donald trump's campaign
that's outrageous isn't that what they sent nixon down for for uh allegedly wiretapping
the opposition in this case it's even worse because they've used the authority and the
capability of the state where nixon's bungled job was a private job by the way it's funny you
bring that up who wasn't i saw on friday made this point that trump wants to expose the iran deal
because it's a bad deal but also because reportedly hundreds of millions got paid to obama and others
and we know they were big into that well now the iranian government it's on info wars dot com if
we're gonna tell the crew pull it up the iranian press tv this is the official channel i don't
just believe it by seeing on cnn of course it wasn't on cnn it was on info wars dot com i saw
the zero hedge article i went to press tv i should have started the whole show with this
and the moola the iotola of rock and roll and jack and cola you know i mean my god keep your
wheels spinning and your beavers grinning this guy says we paid off the obama administration
hundreds of millions and if you don't roll over we'll release who we paid off god is trump
a genius or what please release it please release it now that's the wall street journal fbi hit a
mullin trump campaign it's on info wars dot com's top story for out for you went live i forgot to
tell you guys it's a it's a it's there's a bunch of articles on it but it's all press tv and then
and then it got picked up steve watson wrote about it but also the first people were the amazing
tyler durgan over at the zero hedge ladies and gentlemen drum roll please we'll go to break
a minute come back with this because i forgot to even have that in my stack i'm so punch drunk
with all the news the iranian government on press tv that's their outlet said we will expose you
with with blackmail payments if you don't roll over is that not the most desperate insane behavior
we've ever seen there it is iran threatens to expose us diplomats who took bribes a great nuclear
deal red states got it too good lord roger this is spectacular what do you make of this maybe it
was a rebate my guess is it was a rebate well if i got millions of dollars from the iranians to get
let them have nukes i hope i get hung up by my toenails and beaten to death i mean when
that's why they're trying to call us traders everybody knows we're americans we're capitalists
we are the country we're not the ones taking foreign money roger no in fact the reason that the deep
state is fighting so ferociously is because they know they're the ones who face jail sentences
they're the ones who face disgrace they're the ones who violated the law they are the ones who've
engaged in treason that's why they must accuse us of these very crimes and destroy us because it's us
or them and they realize that and their whole phony facade is crumbling before our very eyes
and it doesn't matter if if halperin is devastatingly handsome as you see on screen that is not going
to get him away with us we'll be back oh my god with roger stone this is ecstasy their whole
criminal operation is imploding huge peace deals with north korea choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made
from a source of 100 organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential
mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall
brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com you know if i tried to sit here and tell you
about the 60 plus products we have it in fullers life it take hours michael zx plus it now is a
lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold
the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone
that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super
blue colloidal silver and iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a
lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store.com and
remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake
and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second
american revolution. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable
meals is crucial with info wars life selects storable food you can make sure you and your family
are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a
full year there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals
such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and
dinner info wars life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even
work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked
up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life selects
storable foods alex jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while
also enjoying what i have found to be the best tasting 100 organic coffee on the planet for
more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern mexico where
the ciapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans we have now managed to secure the
sought after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100
percent organic coffee at info wars life dot com this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for
hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally hands down
this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the ciapas Mexican
farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or two and i don't think you're going to be disappointed
available in original or with our immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press
all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at info wars life
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
and we are back ladies and gentlemen roger has got so much inside critical baseball info that the
final segment because you know wild horses can't shut me up i'm gonna have him host the final
segment coming up before this nine and a half minute segment roger stones here with us so
here's the red state article and then it links to press tv i mean i don't just believe
you know mainstream media here in the us or even red state who are good folks
iran foreign minister threatened to expose western diplomats who took bribe to create
the iran nuclear deal here's the thing the whole establishment's pissed at trump
because he's kicking the lobbyist out because he's making it about america now they all turn
it into michael cohen novartis uh at nt giving him some money to advise them that's totally legal
i'm surprised there's not more lobbying in the trump operation he's lost probably a billion
dollars being sued in attack i know we're under attack you're under attack i'm not just blindly
defending the president i don't care if he gets money or even gets funded under these attacks
as long as he's bringing jobs back pro america but separate from that they want to make it about
cohen getting money from at nt and a drug novartis or whatever uh to like advise them i mean i've
i've been paid to advise major companies before because they really want my advice but how is
that illegal where are the russians they're not there except if you look at hillary but meanwhile
iran is pissed now in press tv this is on info wars dot com you're radio listening go look at
up yourself threatening to release u.s government officials they bribed for the deal that's the
briar patch trump wants to be in what do you make of this roger stone uh you know i think you're
calling it right on the head alex uh the president has told me repeatedly since the beginning of his
term that he was determined to get us out of the iran deal which he thought was a bad deal a rip off
as he would put it and he was always determined his own state department many of his own foreign
policy advisors argued against it uh the foreign policy establishment argued against it john carrey
went out and engaged in personal diplomacy in violation of federal law the logan act and
should be so let me ask you you've got all the answers why would they do something so reckless
with this mula dictatorship what why did they do something that doesn't make sense this is why he
was so determined because he knew he had this whole card i think you've hit it exactly on the head
uh and i think he knew and this became public uh it would undermine what little support the deal
has exactly so what are the moolas thinking because i said weeks ago it's about exposing the bribery
which was starting to come out are the moolas selling deep state kill trump or will out you
i think they are i think they are at that point i say vaporize their ass i'm against these wars
but i'm tired of putting up with their iranian uh you know garbage i honestly believe the thing
that bothers uh the president the most is a concept of pallets of cash hundreds of millions of dollars
in 36 billion now in golden cash not accounted for in the basic agreement like a secret side deal
kept from the american people which we now know was a kickback to them so so how big is this
that torques trump beyond all words that we're being ripped off like let's explain he's a big
penny pincher he's the cheapest human being ever lived and that's the guy you want as the steward
of our tax dollars well he's totally delivering and i was going to interrupt you can make your
points by the round and i've got my points go ahead i think that uh that that you're exactly
right that he always knew that he had this as a whole card which is why he faced down the entire
establishment and went ahead and cashiered this lousy deal needless to say this whips the deep
state types into a another level of hysteria that they've got to get rid of as quickly as possible
he's already taken us out of paris they were apoplectic about that uh the paris climate
accords uh now it's the iranian deal he's on the hill the tpp no listen i criticized him on syria
but that was because i love him but i the only people think i'm off the trump train it's the
opposite he's so good it's crazy what do you make a brennan coming out and saying trump's a chump
with north korea when they're about to blow up their tunnels they've agreed to give up their
nooks you can tell wanting to have peace and actually deciding to do it i mean you can see
the shift because the globalists never wanted peace trump's saying it's over i mean this is
incredible no basically brennan is publicly admitting that he couldn't get a deal done
that he and bush could not get a deal done that he and obama could not a deal get a deal done
because the north koreans viewed us as pussies now the north koreans now believe that the united
states has got a real leader who will smack the hard if they get out of line and that peace is
much more palatable than uh than somebody who is not going to let you get away with what obama
let him get away with uh in this case the saber rattling has paid off it brought them to the table
well roger you're one of my big sources but obviously you know i've got a lot of big sources
and i was told when i was on a skiing trip in early march that they already agreed
tacitly to get everything up this was all going to happen because there have been a strategic
tension uh and that the globalists didn't want peace before the us was basically had more control
of north koreas with the clintons than the chinese did now you hear word for what i was told a month
and a half ago Pompeo on fox news this morning um said fox news sunday said we're going to give them
power plants we're going to give them industry and they go oh but he's a dictator he's like it
won't matter it's like china the people are going to get meat they're going to get food our deal is
that we're going to industrialize them korea is the most productive country in the world per capita
we're about to do that it looks like trump has successfully so you know china's had a bunch of
wars with korea they actually hate korea trump has successfully peeled them off if this ends up
happening this is the ultimate coup against communism i am beside myself if this happens
well alex uh the little rocket man wants coca-cola he wants a piece of the pie he could he could share
the nobel peace prize if he gets something done and if he moves uh in a peaceful direction and
exactly and the globalists wanted to keep tension and fighting going forever to sell weapons trump
goes i'll sell weapons to japan and south korea and the north we're not going to use the damn
things you're going to be making big screen tv's north korea exactly you can tell though
the globalists are panicking their strategy of crisis is coming to an end give but let's not
start getting too confident when you come back you host you're going to cover whatever you want
the last segment roger because i respect you want to give me a time here you got a big night
head up you know turn down that hot blonde night or hot brunette or whatever your beautiful wife
brunette the point is is that we're sitting here looking at this what's the six what's the jack
what's the threat what do we got to look for let's not start getting too confident here
even though it looks like total victories within grasp well in all in all honesty i i think that
we face the greatest challenge we ever faced the hysteria of the deep state is ratcheting up this
just moves mr muller into high gear uh and uh trying to make something of the michael kohn
affair the details of which are still not clear but somehow figure out a way to euker that into
testimony against donald trump uh the uh increasing scouring of the earth for russian
collusion where none can be found uh the tactics uh being used by mr muller their refusal to turn
over to the executive branch the information and documents pertaining to the illegal surveillance
of the trump campaign the liberals want to talk about a constitutional crisis there it is i was
about to say we were in dc together last year when the front page of the new york times said
trump was surveilled we already knew that a week later they said we never said that now they've
been proven to be liars and now it's all come out that that that brennan and comey and muller
lied to congress these guys are sitting ducks except you've got that that that that attorney
general who i think they caught the word is a kkk outfit well something he's either
doddering or he's compromised look there's a common thread here the new york times reported
that maniforte and i and carter page were under fisa surveillance uh the they have never retracted
that story the government uh in the maniforte case refuses to turn over in discovery any evidence
of government surveillance insisting he was never surveilled uh the uh the jeff sessions
is refusing to hand over to congress the jeff sessions is a compromise globalist operative
the fake q and i was totally compromised roger stone on the other side will host and give you
a report on the current state of the battle but hey we're winning the economy's coming back
so many good things are happening but it doesn't mean that they won't kill the president or start
a civil war so we've got to be super laser being focused they're trying to block us and censor us
at every front news wars dot com info wars dot com europe wars dot com prison planet dot com those
sites are pro america pro free market pro christian are pro everything that stands for this country
and we need you to share those links and support local affiliates we'll be back with a final segment
of roger stone prank in north carolina thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah i just have to
say something man it seems like every time i turn on your broadcast your bracket it just gets old
man i'm gonna shut you down right now okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you understand
they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand i'm ringing the alarm
if that was happening to anybody else i'd be freaked out i mean what's it gonna take us being
shut down is that what you want frank you know what i was putting on pause again hey frank do you
understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under attack we need your help
as much begging as i do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this i'm not going to
just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards you understand i need your help frank
i need your help frank go to info wars store dot com right now and help fund the info do you
understand i need your help frank free press needs your help frank staying healthy on the go is just
as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough
that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue
silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles
immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying
formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean
as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features
silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle
staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with
super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com
hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain
its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest
rights freeze dryers go to info wars store dot com to learn more and check out this innovative and
smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is perfect for freeze drying
fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals who that's what i'm talking about
and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating you
know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain
97 percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years
now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's
best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at info
wars store dot com years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help
you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health
micro zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to
support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help
your body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports
your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked
powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark
and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful
micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars
life dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
and it's our final second tonight with roger stone
it was a great patriot who gets demonized a lot uh but who's the real deal the real mccoy
and the fact that i know even his background well he helped get a bunch of communists arrested
in the eighties for reagan and working for nixon right through the way he's been demonized it's
because he's pro america and they're claimed that i'm a russian agent info wars rebooted the country
with you the listeners you rebooted the country we're the people that support the bill of rights
the second amendment the sovereignty not only criticism of trump is he's kicking the hell out
of russia with sanctions beyond anything obama or anybody ever did and mass and troops on their
border and just uh i liked the fact that he did the energy policies that are good for america but
man god that hurt russia bad so be it but it's just sick when the communist shinies are on record
running hollywood they now own it running our media padama can now most universities
enslaveing their own people and then they pointed us and say we're the traders that's
ridiculous we got nine and a half minutes left roger i'll be here at the end i'm here watching
you live right now but i want you to have the floor here so interrupted just give people a
state of the union address the point we're at right now at a real historic crossroads where the
people really count what they say and do roger stone the globalists are desperate they're losing
but they're going to strike back what do you see in your crystal ball what are your sources tell you
Alex the stage is set for an epic clash and it's time sensitive and here is why
robert mewler is stepping up the pressure to remove this president in what i have described
as a deep state coup the president's lawyers to review his initial lawyers lulled him into a false
sense of complacency and confidence that the inquiry would literally just go away
they promised him a letter from the special counsel by christmas that it was new year's
then it was the end of january now it's may and no letter is forthcoming the list of questions
published in the new york times on page one that mr moeller wants to ask the president
strip bear any facade that this is about russia and quite clearly the president has been jolted
by the fact that they want to look into every aspect of his career and his executive actions
including the depositions of his children uh the president signaled a change by bringing in
mayor juliani now he has clearly suffered some slings and arrows for some of his comments regarding
the sideshow of stormy daniels but on the key question of comey moeller and the illegitimacy
and outrageousness of this inquiry this inquisition to remove the president he has been most effective
more importantly i believe that he is urging the president to do what he should have done some time
ago and take dramatic action by terminating some of the bad actors in this drama now the reason
that he must move quickly is because the u.s senate is racing to legally protect robert moeller
the special counsel from being terminated uh the constitutionality of that has to be questionable
mr moeller doesn't even answer to a three judge panel uh as he would have to under the old uh
special counsel law which has expired he merely has mr rozenstein rubber stamping
his rampage into any area he wishes to pursue uh and he is i think grasping at straws having come
up with no russian payday he is forced to go back to the questions of mr comey and mr sessions uh
comey's uh termination and the threats to terminate sessions now in view of the fact
that both the republican and democratic justice department have both ruled that a sitting president
cannot be indicted for a crime while in office what can be the purpose of this inquiry other than uh
to remove the president to undo what they could not do at the ballot box i think the president
now realizes the danger that is afoot i think the president understands the power that he has
but he must move on them before they move on him uh he has the power to pardon everyone uh who's
currently been indicted he has the power to terminate uh mr sessions uh and mr rozenstein
he has the power to order the appointment of a special prosecutor uh i'm both a fisa warrants
where the justice department is stonewalling chairman nunez hiding the ball in an unconstitutional
game of keep away uh he has the authority to uh deal a solid blow to those who move closer and
closer to removing him on some bogus trumped up charge uh in the meantime i can tell you that the
senate uh announced last week or it was i should say it was leaked that sam nunberg has been asked
to provide all emails between he and i that pertain to ubat uh wiki leaks julie insange
russia goose for 2.0 nothing in these emails that concerns me mr nunberg is the gift that
keeps on giving and roger let me just jump in briefly here because i'm sitting here watching
you you're absolutely on target and today before we went on air i thought get on the
offense alex you're always covering what they do we're trying to bring back jobs thousands of factories
trump 24 billion in black um uh african-american targeted you know direct scholarships and and
the left's going oh that's racist it should be for everybody that's more than 50 years of black
scholarships in in four years he's he's already signed the order i mean i mean here's the deal i
totally agree with that don't take somebody else's college slot because they're asian or white or a
woman give somebody a damn scholarship i'm all about paying tax money for that i like that idea
of actually like here you know boom you did good in school or whatever you tried
you get this i mean he's doing so good and then i see all these attacks it makes me sick do we
forget that donald trump i know i'm changing subjects here do we forget donald trump 40 years
ago bought a bunch of golf courses at blacks and jews and hispanics i i didn't believe that when i
was like four years old people couldn't play golf anywhere they wanted but there were still golf courses
uh you know like bushwood from the imaginary caddy shack where blacks and hispanics and gays
and jews couldn't play and trump is the guy that bought dozens and did that and then that's
why all the rappers loved him because and then they turn around like cowards like snoop dog
and crap all over him that pisses me off that i have the real white supremacist against me
because i've been for real inclusion as a libertarian for years and there's this secret
conservatism of racism that plays into the left i'm done with the blue bloods i'm done i was never
with them but i'm done with the blue bloods i'm done with everybody but that doesn't mean that
i look at black racists or hispanic racists who tell me to kiss their butt because i'm white
no you go to hell too does that make sense makes perfect says look you can go on youtube now and
find footage of jesse jackson praising donald trump for his work in the community donald trump is
not a racist uh this is the name calling are we ever going to drop the secret weapon on him about
trump uh you might i'm not going to let's just say donald trump likes black people yeah he loves
black people uh look but they'll turn into something like thomas jefferson's bad well you know the left
is very interesting when uh when bill clinton engages in in uh oral sex in the oval office with
inter and they say that's not of anybody's business that's personal conduct yet they're
wild about stormy daniels which if anything happened it was consensual but if the president
had a black supermodel girlfriend 30 years ago that's that's racist uh well be racist for us
to say that problem well i'm not saying it i've heard that though people are saying it
oh my god well you know talking to trump you know a lot better than me 40 something years
he talks about energy so in closing what is this thing with trump at energy conye talked about
dragon energy trump said we get the energy when i've talked to trump a few times i've talked to him
you know ten times or something he talked to a thousand times he talks about energy he really
he loves black churches what's going on there uh you know he is not a man who is uh who likes to
be bored he's constantly on the move he likes to see things moving he likes uh you know he likes
upbeat people but it's not an ass-kissing event he really likes black people i think he likes
everybody this is the difference fundamental difference between he and hillary clinton donald
from loves people well you heard him say you heard him say i want victory for the planet he can talk
to anybody easily uh i know personally when he heard obama five years ago say africa can't
have air conditioning he stood up in his chair when he heard that yes i've heard that as well
how racist is that to say black people can't have anything
roger stone you've done an incredible job joining in tomorrow so much uh is happening we really
appreciate you and god bless you my friend uh the 20 seconds closing comment well uh
alice want to remind people they can go to the info or store and get their new copy of stone's
rules this is my uh road manual for uh politics business style by the way come on for a full
hour because i'm not even done an ad to promote it it's a message to send this to number one
plus to support us god bless you roger great job with the crew i'll see you back tomorrow 11 a.m
central thank you so much has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is
sending down over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays
you'll get six months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the
uk cnn and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine
has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info
wars psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say
we are the most hated news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to
info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in
contact with you and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in
free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action
and i know you will vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure your
chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at
info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino
acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we brought out a lot of amazing
products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique
delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula
is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral products and this part is most important the
ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard
that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the sphere
in the info war that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we
sell out you're listening to the alex jones show
