Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
Remember two years ago, the current Congresswoman from Tennessee, one of the Congresswomen from
Tennessee, simply ran her own campaign ad on her own Twitter account and the video was banned.
And they had congressional hearings. That was a really big deal. Well, now there's a state senator
who's in the front running for governor in the state where he's running in Georgia and he has
sent us a letter. He's happy to come on. I don't want to get him on the next few days. From Facebook,
we've also gotten this from other Republican Party candidates saying you are not allowed to
advertise with Alex Jones or ImphalWars. Now let's be clear. We're not getting any money. Facebook
lets them advertise on the page that our people go to and lets them directly message them. Now
the Democrats brag that they basically control Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. So they're all
allowed to operate. But this is clear election racketeering. Trying to keep conservative
candidates from being able to legally and lawfully reach out and politically advertise or reach
out to people. It's a huge deal. But here's what's more ominous. They list and culture bright
Bart as well and say on the 24th, that's eight days away, nine days away, we will quote no longer be
available on Facebook. I've been announcing this for two days. There's an article last night on
ImphalWars.com. I'm going to ask our folks to retweet that at real Alex Jones. And no one even
cares because we're so used to the censorship. And now it's hit the flashpoint. You can put a
piece of paper on hot on top of hot stove until it hits 450 something degrees. It just browns and
yellows, but suddenly it flashes into flame. We're in that political millisecond right now
where the censorship is just flame on. It is massive. It is historic. It is draconian.
And it is widespread. So we'll be talking about that. Paul Watson is going to join us as well.
He put out a critique of the violent anti-American
anti-white race war Childish Gambino video blurred out all the violent stuff.
Well, the Childish Gambino video has been force fed on YouTube 120 million times to everybody.
But Paul's video was blocked in less than six hours after being up on the grounds that it was
violent. But he blurred out the actual simulated killings. So his critique, the most protected
form of speech, isn't allowed. And I see the bots on ImphalWars commenting, oh, it's a private
corporation and do whatever it wants. Really, YouTube, it has the terms of service that it
violates with you. It's selective. It's discriminating on a mass platform. They claim to Congress,
they never do it, that they're a utility. They could be busted up for this.
Jack Dorsey didn't say, oh, it's our platform. We own it on Twitter. He said, we're going to
crush conservatives. Close quote. We're going to crush you and silence you.
And they're got the Democratic Party trying to shut down ImphalWars, trying to kick us off radio
stations, trying to ban us from advertising. This is the opposite of free market. It's authoritarianism
just like Venezuela. It's just how they operate in Cuba and Venezuela. And it will kill this country,
ladies and gentlemen. So it's an amazing time to be alive and it's extremely, extremely dangerous.
So that's all coming up. Now, that's just part of what I'm going to be covering on the historic
draconian censorship today. YouTube allows video depiction of massacre to be watched by children,
censors criticism of it. ImphalWars.com, NewsWars.com, polls re-uploaded it to Facebook for now.
And we have that link in the article so you can see it. Just months ago,
they're in Congress, saying when Alex Jones censored, the big three CEOs go, yes, sir,
we'll get on that congressman quickly right now. Sir, we censored Paul Watson and Alex Jones at
lunch. He goes, I know, I saw that. They were number one. I want them censored. Fake news.
They claim that truck attack in New York was a Muslim. It was not. They go, yes, sir, it was not.
He screamed all Akbar. It's on record. He was. These are dangerous, evil people, folks.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive
Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top
shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins. There's no better time to try
fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance
to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
InfoWars and our radio, TV, and internet platforms
have been absolutely smashing through the global ascensors. We've been breaking every
record, every podcast record, every video download record. We've been getting numbers only rivaled
by hip-hop and major motion pictures. We conservatively had 86 million views and listens
the week of the election 2016 in November. Despite all their censorship, all their crackdowns,
we're exploding on talk radio and on television. But on the internet, they have crushed us down
to 20, 30 million views a week. But they've said that for the 2018 election, they are going to
basically end all conservative libertarian Christian nationalist media. And it's been
announced, it's been caught on hidden camera by Project Veritas, but now they're having congressional
hearings, it's happening. And Facebook has announced that as of the 24th of this month, eight, nine
days away, Breitbart, InfoWars, and Coulter, and it lists others, will no longer be available.
When senators and congressmen and gubernatorial candidates and state senators go and they try
to buy, not advertising with us, they try to go, showing what Facebook does, and by being able to
place ads to InfoWars supporters, we don't even make any money. Zuckerberg does. They're saying
those sites will no longer be available. Now, what does that tell you? It tells you they're either
going to totally shadow man us on Facebook on the 24th or something even more draconian,
because if they're telling people, hey, sorry, you can spend money contacting these people until
the 24th, and then they will no longer be available. The documents, the screenshots,
they're all on InfoWars.com. I'm going to have it retweeted out at Real Alex Jones, Facebook,
preparing to ban conservatives before midterm election, social media giant ramping up
InfoWars censorship to gain control of the narrative. This is massive violation of the First Amendment,
massive political racketeering, incredible fraud. You think Hillary rigging the debates and getting
the questions beforehand, and, you know, all the fake polls was bad. This is next level.
When GOP Governor candidate is in the store at InfoWars.com, tried to reach out to our listeners
and send them a video of him and his deportation bus that he's got as a stunt. He's current
State Senator Michael Williams. They were told, we've got this letter right here,
you are not allowed to advertise on this list of groups. And it lists them all right here.
Ben Carson and Coulter, Andrew Breitbart still has his personal page on there.
Bill O'Reilly, Alex Jones. That's just one guy. I've got all the letters pouring in
from Republicans and Libertarians and everybody else. And they're like, yeah, they're telling us
we're not able to contact your people. Because the media spun it like, oh, if Republicans contact
people on Facebook through Facebook and Facebook makes money, that's dirty and bad. The Democrats
do it 10 to 1. They brag. It's, it's, they brag. We own Facebook. They force feed it. Democrats don't
even have to pay. But now they're telling Republicans your money is not accepted here. Get out of our
business. We're not baking your cake. We're not cutting your hair. We're not selling you a shirt.
We're not feeding you food at the lunch counter. You don't get to sit at the back of the bus.
You get your Republican butt off that bus. We don't care if you're black. We don't care if you're
white. If you're a nationalist, a free market person, a conservative, get your butt off this bus
now. Now I love how even the Hill who'd make fun of me a year ago saying the censorship was here,
now they got headlines. Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, admit censoring conservatives.
This is massive and it's not their own companies. They advertise. Come here. Be part of it. Follow
the rules. You send everybody the traffic. It becomes the internet and then they cut you off.
And then lie about you and call you racist or extremist while they do it.
Coming up the bottom of the hour, Paul Joseph Watson put out a viral video exposing the race war
anti-white narrative of the Childish Gambino as the answer to the love and what was being put out
by Kanye West. He didn't show any of the violence, any of what they showed in the video that's not
being censored. That's got 120 million views by Childish Gambino. But polls was censored
for quote, showing violence and blocked. We're again re-uploading it to a few other places right
now. I'm sure they'll try to knock it down as well, but this is where they're trying to kill discourse.
Now I'm done talking about the censorship for now. Paul's coming up, but this is bigger than Alex Jones.
It's bigger than Breitbart. It's bigger than Drudge Report. It's bigger than America. We have
censorship in China emanating out. We have Apple moving over there. We have massive censorship
intensifying across the world. We have church bells aren't allowed to ring in Germany and Sweden.
That's in mainstream news, but the Muslims can blast their call to prayer at full power
all over. They're passing Sharia law in Europe. I mean, this is crazy.
Swedish city allows 110 DB Muslim prayer calls, rejects church clock ringing.
That's a Europe Wars.com article right now, linking to mainstream news. And the only mainstream news
covering it's the Russians because they're pro-Christian now.
The Irish times did it too. Now let's get into this. Wait till you hear this speaking of the Irish.
Just to give you a picture of how this ties together. Irish pressured to house migrants
North African and Islamic invaders in spare bedrooms, vacation homes just like Italy,
where they throw all the people out of a little hotel on the seaside and say,
we're not paying you now. And the federal police put
the North Africans into their homes. This is a planned takeover. They want to advertise,
come to Europe. Everything's free. That's on
Europe Wars.com as well. Our new Europe Bureau, that's a Dan Lyman story,
linking to mainstream European news announcing it. And that ties into this.
No whites allowed day continues at Evergreen College despite last year's uproar.
That's right. No whites are going to be allowed this Saturday at the school.
Any professors that complain will be fired. The only whites allowed are the white communist
controlling the whole operation. Oh, by the way, four socialist one primaries.
It doesn't matter because they're women, so it's okay in Pennsylvania.
That's right. Look at Venezuela collapsing. Look at every other socialist country collapsing.
They don't care. Hip hip hooray. But these are all leftovers from the whole Bernie movement.
So four socialist back candidates when Pennsylvania legislative primaries
show you where the Democrats are and they're running on a total socialist platform.
But that's okay because they're women, so don't criticize them for their horrible views.
Well, I guess the dictator of Venezuela at least is a guy, so I can criticize him and
people starving and a thousand dying a week starvation. That's okay.
Hey, crisis pours into Columbia across border bridge. That's out of the Bakersfield newspaper.
And then now from South America, collapsing Central America and Mexico is collapsing
as millions migrate and flee collapsing communist and socialist countries. But that's okay.
We can make it just like that here.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting. We're having victories for capitalism and free speech.
But we, America and a few other nations of the last stand here.
And that's why it's more important than ever. Please spread the word about the live broadcast on
TV stations you're watching and radio stations you're listening to or the internet infowars.com.
We have our own streaming. We post some of our own videos at infowars.com forward slash show.
And we're adding more of those features soon and working on that. We're making our exodus away,
but we're still fighting to try to keep some freedom on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter because
they've said when they're done shutting us down on the wider web, Google's 90% of web searches,
YouTube's 70% of any of you, when they're done, they're coming to shut us down right here. Hell,
Soros and Hillary and their lawyers are suing us right now saying they want us shut down.
So we're fighting on every battlefield and every front we can place our feet on.
Please also support us. We've got back on sale, back in stock, Survival Shield X2.
Learn about why it's so amazing, why it's got thousands of five star reviews, the good halogen,
it's back in stock 25% off for a limited time, body's 50% off, toothpaste 50% off, but it's all
about to stop. Were you born before the year 1956? If so, did you know you could be collecting
between $575 and $2,200 in tax-free income right now? All thanks to the FHA. Or what about this?
Did you know 54 U.S. congressmen have used a special tax-free account to earn up to 35 times
more on their money? It's true and you can do it too. These are just two of the secrets revealed
inside a stunning new book from the Palm Beach Research Group and Ted Benna, The Man Behind the
401k. You'll discover the 18 best cash cows that can help you earn up to an extra $6,800 a month.
Just go to 501kbook.com right now. If you're at or near retirement, this book is a must read.
You can get your own free copy. Shipping and handling charges apply. Just go to 501kbook.com
right now while there are still copies left. That's 501kbook.com. 501kbook.com. Just go to
501kbook.com right now. Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure,
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you. But the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes, and drops, poor circulation, and irregular heartbeat are just
a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body extract is
making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure has
normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to
everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a
preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two months supply today by
calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty
worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the
planet. For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have now
managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and try a bag
of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long,
smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give
me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Dropped by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't
think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion
blend. You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my
favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com. Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough
in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new,
natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal
and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function. In the 1960s, researchers in France
noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory
responses. They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have
the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact,
current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body. Go outside
and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable
tablets. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
So, why does George Soros, Hillary Clinton, the Democratic Party, the EU, the Vatican,
and every other major globalist organization, Hollywood, the Communist Chinese,
why do they all single Alex Jones out, info wars out, and Paul Joseph Watson out,
and say that we are to be shut down and that we are scum and that we are evil and that we are
bad people? Well, none of it's true. Because we have built a platform
that reaches millions of people a day, but that's not what threatens them.
The military, the police, and foreign governments listen.
The intelligentsia listen because they know this is one of the only places you can tune in
and actually hear real info that they already know. They already know we're telling the truth
because they know more than we do in many cases. We told you five years ago that Hillary and Obama,
stage Benghazi, to ship three warehouses of high-impact anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles to al-Qaeda.
When that got exposed, we exposed it first before anybody.
Then Colonel Shaffer and others were able to expose it with even more intel.
We got massively attacked for that. What do they list of the internal Google documents that have
been leaked while they want to shut us down? Because we exposed that. We've gotten more footage
of the Palestinians laying on the ground, pretending like they've been shot at a mass
funeral with sheets over them, and then they take the sheets off and they get back up. I'm
going to show that coming up. We take stuff that they don't want out and we put it out.
Does that mean I'm glad Palestinians have been shot? No, I'm not against the Palestinians,
but most of the time it's fake. And that's what I'm tired of. And we have the proof.
Like they now admit the last chemical attack didn't even happen.
Trump's cut the funding for the White Helmets. We've been totally proven right about that.
That's why I got so mad when Trump bombed the base there over the lie. It's not true.
But at least Trump now knows he got lied to. But let me give you the big news.
I'm on the elliptical this morning at eight o'clock.
Fox News. Dun dun dun. Top story. We've interviewed the man who turned the weapons over
that he hadn't finished selling to Al Qaeda, but says he sold plane load after plane load
that landed and he would give it right to Al Qaeda under U.S. orders.
Oh, and guess where a lot of the weapons came through? Out of Mexico. We had Tosh Plumley,
who led squadrons of aircraft before he retired five years ago,
into Syria and into Iraq, landing, and the Wahhabis would come up to the plane. Yes,
Tosh himself was flying some of these for the CIA. Tosh has to live in a secret location
in South America now. Oh, 2013 info wars dot com. Former CIA pilot Plumley says,
and it goes through it all. Flashback. Hillary Clinton facilitated legal sales of arms to Al Qaeda.
2016. That one was 2013.
Trump is right. Here's the proof. Hillary and Obama founded ISIS info wars dot com. Kit Daniels.
But those are all two years ago. Guys, search engine Tosh Plumley info wars dot com. Show them
the 2013 2014 2015. The video is the article then that's the really powerful ones word for word.
What is now Fox News? There it is 2013. November 1st. Former CIA pilot. He was, by the way,
still a pilot at that time says Reagan administration responsible for death of DEA agent.
And you read deeper into the article is that's not the one. It's another one that came out right
after that. You know what happens? I get on the fly. All the listeners know we exposed this.
They know Tosh Plumley was on 15 times. They all know we exposed it. And then they're just in
their randomly search engine and other times he came on. Here it is. Former CIA whistleblower
targeted by government over Facebook post October 7th 2013. Julie Wilson. And then it goes into
the whole thing about Benghazi and all the rest of it. Yeah, the thing to search is CIA whistleblower
Tosh Plumley. Obama administration and Hillary Clinton shipped arms to Al Qaeda in Syria.
That is the headline. You guys are just getting the Tosh Plumley search. You're getting some
sub stuff. And there it all is. Gun runner CIA gun runner. Hillary's Benghazi crimes confirmed
2015. Major whistleblower breaks down the current state of the country. And there's the whole
article and the whole video. There's a bunch of other ones exposing the entire thing, how it was
done, how they shipped the weapons in, how they changed the name to ISIS to confuse people,
how they were starting a Middle Eastern war, how she used the State Department export rule to
block the ban, how they shipped in the weapons, what the NATO troops told him, what the special
operations troops told him, what the other pilots told him and what he saw with his own eyeballs.
And they death-threaded him and everything else. So you now want to know why they hate us? Because
in 2018, dun dun dun, Bill Himmer and the rest of the Fox News staff will tell you everything and
give us no credit. Colonel Shaffer went on in 2014 and 15 and said this stuff on Fox. But he said
it on Fox Business on Lou Dobbs. Oh, they let him say it, but only on Fox Business. They have him
on regular Fox, but not to cover this stuff. You know, he works for Fox. And boy, does he get in
trouble when he comes on here. So that's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. You got the information
here for years before you got anywhere else. Why are we under attack? Why are we being censored?
Why are we being demonized? Why are we being sued? Why are we being lied about? Because we care about
America and we're not rolling over to George Soros. And by the way, people always say, oh, Alex,
you know, you sit there and, you know, you, you act like George Soros is so powerful. Folks,
every time I turn around, it's George Soros. You know, George Soros just bought control of Tesla.
He'll have control of SpaceX next. And you know how he did it? They had the media badmouth Tesla
and badmouth SpaceX and drive down the stocks, billions and billions of dollars. And now Soros,
the little doodoo bird, can come flapping in with only 35 million and leverage it and take control
of the company. And then they spend it like, oh, he's buddy, Elon Musk. That's how you do it.
He's involved in everything. You turn over any rock and that guy is waiting underneath it. Now,
that said, Paul Joseph Watson is joining us on the massive censorship. And I'm going to put out
a video later, a special report with the Tosh Plumley clubs, with everything that was shed,
and then compare it to the Fox News report. How Hillary and Obama gave the orders to ship the
heavy weapons to Al Qaeda. I gave the US trucks and ammunition to Al Qaeda. US equipment weapons
handed over to Al Qaeda. And then it goes through the whole thing and how it happened. Oh my gosh.
And this itself is a whitewash. So there you go, ladies and gentlemen, the news from four years
from now today, infowars.com, newswars.com, europewars.com, prisonplanet.com. That's why
they hate us. That's why they're after us because we're on target and we'll tell the truth. And oh,
and I'll say it again and again, George Soros said on 60 Minutes, he was a Nazi collaborator and he
was proud of it and he'd do it again. And that's why they got his PR firms out saying he never
did such a thing. And I'm a liar. And in all these lawsuits, they just list George Soros and that
randomly as a message to me to shut up. No, you're a Nazi collaborator. You're a mass criminal.
You overthrow countries. You're the enemy, George Soros. You're a piece of crap.
That's blackriflerealestate.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
So you can upload it. And our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a
spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver
and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering infowars.com
and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't
awake. And it's so essential to spread the word. And again, thank you so much for being part of
the Second American Revolution. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of
prepping between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages. Having a supply
of storable meals is crucial. With info wars, life select, storable food, you can make sure
you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging
from 72 hours to a full year. There's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible
meals, including meals such as traveler's stew, home style potato soup and a variety of other
meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner info wars life select, storable food will help you eat
comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and
you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip. Don't be caught surprised
by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with info wars life select, storable foods. Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've
introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body. Flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel
your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life
daily digestive pack today. You're listening to the alex jones show big brother mainstream media
government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny well so does he live from the info wars dot com
studios it's alex jones well you get tomorrow's news today here at info wars dot com with tosh
plumley one of the cia men flying the aircraft and then who else should we have on oh that's
right colonel schaefer saying that vengasi was an arms deal gone bad and that hillary wanted
three warehouses shipped in to where syria well fox news today this morning broke it in a big long
10 page article i gave the u.s trucks and ammunition to al-qaeda when the weapons came out of libya
and it's all right there for everybody isn't that interesting well guess what we talked to the very
people that flew it all in the tow missiles the anti tank the saws the machine guns the anti aircraft
and guess what here it is info wars dot com an alex jones curt nemo story confirmed
vengasi was cover-up of arms transfer to al-qaeda in syria oh my gosh that's four plus years ago
august 4th 2013 that's almost four and a half years ago we broke that exclusively like we do so much
more like oh those questions are staged to hillary and they'll see it in debates because she was
instantly ready and smiling and you could tell going from memory and i could just any old of all
of course all came out i just said look staged how long i could look at her town halls and i could
tell they were shot in like 80 millimeter or the best hd i've ever seen i mean you can tell a movie
you could see pieces of dust in the air and it came out a month later in wiki leaks that it was
a totally staged event see i can look at something and see it's fake they call that being a conspiracy
theorist but when you actually have the witnesses who flew the aircraft by the way folks tosh plumley
risked his life they tried to basically come and get him i'm not supposed to talk about it on air
but he left for south america and he's staying with some old friends down there from his old cia days
but they're trying to kill him and he's a hero so that's all coming up ladies and gentlemen
there it is boom tomorrow's news today why they hate us we've got to take those original interviews
of plumley in 2013 a rearum i mean it is just it is just incredible what criminals uh hillary and
obama were when trump didn't say they were the founders of isis that is 100 totally true now
we're going to pull lots in here in just a moment we're going to air his censored video
when we come back this is big this is important because the crackdown is now happening
briefly financially we need your support they've taken the sponsors local radio has sponsors
that's great support them the network has their sponsors but we are 80 plus percent funded by
ubine products info or store.com we have great ultimate tumeric formula 95 tumeric level leading
competitors have three percent amazing what tumeric does that's five other superfoods in it as well
supercharger so six super herbs strongest tumeric you're going to find out there the most concentrated
it's 50 off because i want you to try it and see how amazing it is it sold out last time i did this
in two weeks i want you to see how great body says it came back in sold out for a week but we
got an emergency supply of x2 the good halogen it is 25 off even though it is going to sell out soon
our great fluoride free toothpaste at four to five o'clock silver and i9 it's 50 off for adults
children the mouthwash and the immune gargles in three sizes all six products in the super blue line
50 off ladies and gentlemen makes it easy for you to take care of yourself and your family
and fund the operation or read the thousands of five-star reviews no reviews yet on the big
five combo pack is that or the big six combo pack because it's brand new but that also has
free shipping on that combo pack all right let's stop right there paul joseph watson joins us to
break down the admitted total crackdown on libertarian conservative christian nationalist
speech all over the world being led by big tech congressional hearings months ago calling for
watson to be banned from twitter because he daresay that the muslim attacker with the truck in new
york was a muslim that was of course true so his crime is saying the sky is blue at high noon
and the woods are lovely dark and deep but the truth will out now there's a number one music
video out there and paul watson devastates it coming up when we air this in the next segment
but i wanted him to specifically speak to this the articles up on info wars dot com we have
reuploaded it from facebook so you can see the censored video for limited time we'll probably
take that down youtube allows video description of massacred to be watched by children but when
we criticize it they censor the video criticizing it that censors the violence so this is exposing
them targeting children with this race baiting race war violent garbage and blocking it for most
audiences but not blocking the actual violence and race baiting so total hypocrisy total fraud and
then it dovetails them with everything else paul thanks for joining us give us a update on this
well the update is literally five minutes ago they restored it which always happens right
we always make a big deal out of it point to the fact that this is the strisand effect they
they're still seem completely unaware of what the strisand effect is then it ends up getting
hundreds of thousands of more views anyway so it always fails but they keep doing it
and we've got a platform to kind of push back most people don't most people just accept it
the video is basically the us billboard number one hit song right now it shows it depicts in
bloody gore and violence somebody being shot in the head a group of gospel singers being massacred
with an ak-47 youtube didn't age restrict it no no no they promoted it on their trending page for
the past 10 days there's no age restriction children can watch this and it's advertiser friendly
now i don't really care alex i don't i don't support censorship in any faction but it's
it's the double standard so i put up a video last night criticizing this video the message
behind it because the washington post inside edition the view they put they all put their
videos on youtube thawning over it and praising it basically it trashes america it's you know the
usual black lives matter rhetoric america's racist evil and corrupt it allows uh donald
glober the creator of this video to become a uh an international actor music star and be on all
the top tv shows every night for the past two weeks because america's so evil and racist
so i basically made some points rebutting and he's gonna be lando cal rizzi in a new movie it's
just so horrible yeah so horrible yeah he's literally like the most adored famous person on
earth but america's racist and uh hates black people apparently so i made a video about it
criticizing the message behind it within hours it was put behind what they call the gulag
which is when a video starts to go viral they immediately shut it down prevent comments prevent
likes prevent it from being shared you have to be signed into a youtube account to watch it
basically kills any traction the video has so understand the fact that the washington post
and all these other outlets had had their videos on youtube for days praising the original video
that's fine as soon as i criticize it with my opinion and don't even show the violence which
is in the original i literally censored the violence which is not censored in the original
which is available for children to watch and is advertiser friendly so within about 12 hours
it got nearly 200 000 views it was shut down it was censored now obviously we've got some kind of
resources to draw attention to this and to freak out about it so it's just been restored as of
about 10 minutes ago but again it's goes back to the point there's this narrative alex oh the
conservative snowflakes are complaining about being censored again what are you talking about
you're never censored literally within hours of me making this video boom censored so yes we
are being censored and paul let's expand on that they then argue hey it's their own corporation blah
blah blah the left will sue you if you don't bake their cake they advertise it as youtube we follow
the rules they break the rules they're allowed to make fun of dead bodies and stuff and not get in
trouble we just expose what they're doing and they try to deny us from the electronic town square
and we come back though we're gonna play the censored video that's now been put back up for now
which they killed when it started going mega viral it's up on info wars dot com we're gonna
retweet it right now at real alex jones and at prison planet paul's twitter paul police tweet
that it's been restored see it while it's still available and we're gonna talk about the next level
facebook is announcing the end of info wars may 24th i'm so excited the new product info wars
life dot com in a glass bottle two months servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top
the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went off what i
saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging
people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula working
with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules and ladies and
gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body
has to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now available
at info wars store dot com and your purchase fuzz the operation staying healthy on the go is just
as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough
that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue
silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 60 ounce bottles
immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new
purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean
as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features
silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle
staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with
super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life
dot com pike in arizona here on the air worldwide go ahead oh alex you can rent any day of the week
thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save america
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time info
wars listener i want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like
to say thanks for the anthroplex thank you i use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for
you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans of super blue is awesome and thank you so much alex
for the info wars life products they are quality i can't wait to get some more and thank you so
much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely we because then we could all as educated
patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going
on and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves we can take our
country back choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true
selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true
selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce
thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com you're listening to the alex jones show
we now take you live to reality we now take you live to the central texas global command center
for the human awakening this is the paul joseph watson transmission we now take you live to the
central texas command center in the heart of the resistance you're listening to alex jones
what headline did i run yesterday at infowars.com on the live feeds urgun announces global caliphate
against israel america and the e u what is the headline that he officially said today
drugreport.com please tomorrow's news today please put it back on screen for me urgun urges
islamic world to unite against israel uh actually he said more than that because he said it before
and when he pulled his people out of the israel and us embassies that signaled he's going to
really take the mask off so there you go back to paul watson paul and we're going to play this video
and come back with five more minutes to you to react to facebook's announcement that will be removed
the 24th that's what it says this is just spectacular they also say breitbart will be
and others and culture but just before we play this game bino piece in one minute other points
yeah the other point is this video is based on the premise that the entertainment industry and
the media distracts people from real issues what they call real issues are identity politics
racism black lives matter rhetoric which of course is all the entertainment industry media talks about
every award show nfl late night comedy monologues that's all they talk about so they're not
distracting from it they're promoting it so i mean i i drew attention to this you know this the guy
behind this video is on every major tv talk show has been for the past two weeks so the video itself
distracts from real issues i brought up real issues in the actual video like if you really
care about black lives shouldn't the fact that 90 percent of black people are killed by other black
people clearly clearly paul that conversation they can't deal with the real debate they're
force-feeding this narrative with hundreds of movies tv shows trying to cause a race war it's
in the wiki leaks we'll be back in a moment after the censored video here it is this is crazy
this is america why am i analyzing this is america by childish gambino because millions
upon millions of people have blithely swallowed the social justice narrative that it promotes
they're calling it overnight cultural phenomenon this video is basically the antidote to everything
konye has been saying for the past few weeks now first off i'm not questioning the talents of
either donald glover or the choreography for this video which are both obviously substantial i am
questioning the phony race baiting divisive narrative that the video seeks to elevate so donald
glover childish gambino is essentially playing the role of america white america to be more precise
lover massacring the gospel singers is a reference to the racist murder of black churchgoers in
charleston the guy shot at the beginning of the video also looks like trevor martin's dad cementing
the black lives matter theme that racist white america is hunting down african americans strangely
absent from the four-minute video is any reference whatsoever to the number one killer of black
people in america which is other black people a fact you'd think would be part of the conversation
if glover really cared about black lives also absent is the fact that black people kill more
white people than vice versa despite the fact that white people make up a far larger percentage
of the population according to the national crime victimization survey in 2010 62,593 blacks
were the victims of white violence during that same year 320,082 whites were the victims of black
violence that's five times as many violent attacks but that number is misleading since the black and
white populations are not the same size when 38 million black americans commit five times as many
violent crimes on 197 million whites as they receive what you discover is that black perpetrators
violently assault white victims 25 times more frequently and when it comes to a specific
kind of violent crime aggravated assault the number of black on white crimes is 200 times higher
than white on black crimes running through the lyrics and the entire video is the theme of
glover and the dancers serving as a distraction from the chaos going on behind them which is supposed
to be an allegory of how entertainment distracts from social justice racism and identity politics
the song's first bridge talks about how entertainment media is serving as a distraction from bigger
issues at hand what are you talking about the entertainment industry is now wall to wall social
justice racism and identity politics you can't get through a late night comedy monologue an
nfl national anthem or an award show speech without being bombarded with social justice racism
and identity politics this very video has handed the entertainment industry and the media yet
another opportunity to endlessly talk about social justice racism and identity politics
mainstream america doesn't distract from discussions about racism and social justice
it amplifies them at every available opportunity one of the dance moves glover performs is the
south african guara-guara to draw a parallel between the racist oppression of black people
in south africa and racism in america which is pretty ironic given that racist oppression currently
taking place in south africa is overwhelmingly directed towards white people the south african
parliament has voted in favor of new legislation that could see land from white farmers seized
he has said that he's not calling for the social of white people at least not yet in recent years
there has been a spike in the killing of farmers in south africa the guns being attentively taken
care of with a red cloth represents how republicans care more about guns than lives another irony
given that defensive gun uses by victims are more common than gun uses by violent criminals
according to the cdc's own figures firearms violence has also been plummeting for the last
20 years even as gun ownership sought gambino says this is sally sally could mean spellwalk
a commonly used tool to unjustly keep blacks in a cycle of incarceration yeah 50 percent homicide
rate 13 population rate lover also poses and pulls facial expressions like a caricature of
jim crow jim crow laws were racial segregation laws enacted by democrats and as kandace owens
points out virtually no one complaining about jim crow laws today even lived through the jim
crow era victim mentality is not cool i don't know why people like being oppressed the weirdest thing
i've ever heard i love oppression we're oppressed 400 years of slavery jim crow which by the way
none of you guys live through your grandparents and it's embarrassing that you utilize you utilize
their history you're not living through anything right now you're overly privileged americans racism
and slavery was a horrific chapter of american history just as it was in every other part of the
world where slavery was inflicted on virtually every race on the planet why are we still obsessively
talking about this hundreds of years later could it be because democrats don't actually care about
black lives it has been a record year in the city chicago and for all the wrong reasons the murder
rate has never been higher and the only thing they actually care about is keeping black people
locked in a permanent state of mental victimhood so they can get black votes lover trying to escape
and run from america which is represented at the end of the video encapsulates the overarching
nihilistic message that america is corrupt evil and racist so corrupt evil and racist that it allows
glover a black man to reach the top of his game in both acting and the music industry while having
one of the most celebrated and talked about songs of the year while appearing on every mainstream
talk show on tv while making tens of millions of dollars in the process so racist america is so
corrupt and evil it defeated the twin terrors of fascism and communism became the biggest economic
powerhouse on the planet created a strong aspirational middle class including a generation of
upwardly mobile black families improving the lives of hundreds of millions of americans of all
colors and providing endless opportunities for tens of millions of immigrants thereafter so racist
but none of that really matters this music video has had over 120 million views in 10 days videos
that emphasize its social justice narrative have tens of millions more views this is a potent piece
of cultural and political propaganda delivered via the medium of pop culture and me sitting here
debunking its delusory sophistic themes isn't going to reach 120 million people we need to create
our own art we need to create our own music we need to create our own cultural narrative young
people don't identify with social justice narratives because of their objective truth they didn't
reason themselves into believing black lives matter rhetoric they believe it because it's
socially acceptable and it inflates their inherent narcissism they identify with it because it's cool
to do so videos like this make it cool to do so we need to make this uncool we need to make social
justice the most embarrassing thing in the world we need to create an environment where artists can
express true diversity of opinion without committing career suicide we need to incentivize a return to
beauty a return to authenticity a reassertion of confidence in western civilization this isn't
america spike lee's new america bashing movie isn't america this kind of thing exists to tear down
and denigrate the very idea of america we shouldn't allow this to define what america stands for
we need to define what america stands for we need to make america cool again years ago info war's
life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on
and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better
formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for that formula
a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal
organisms there's no better product to help your body fight back micro zx plus helps support a
healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal
yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of
ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formula
is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties
pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's info
wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com secure your chemister we have
worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great
tasting multi vitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot
com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body
absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products
like survival shield x2 supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system
and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum
standard of multi vitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in
vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means
it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info
war that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
you're listening to the alex jones show
well poll watching knocked it out of the park yet again in that powerful eight minute video
that they were censoring and blocking but now because of pressure they've allowed back up
the truth about childish gambino's new movie new little music video now again poll said one
thing though that wasn't true he said well obviously this video i'm putting out won't get 120 million
views uh poll i've produced documentaries that have been seen 200 million times online
about other films that have been seen 50 60 70 million times online these are two three hour
films like loose change obama deception in game you on your own facebook channel hit the site guys
turn the election you had videos with 37 million views 25 million views but they deleted them when
you get 37 million views in a week it's going to keep going forever but i love this guy in all
these top movies reportedly already made like 50 million dollars childish gambino bitching where
he's running from america hey please run to south africa or run to venezuela and go eat dogs and
cats against 38 all those run to north korea just stop the bitching man i didn't do jack crap to you
you rich hollywood person and i resent all your endless race bait and crap and and that's what it
comes down to i mean i know 12 to 1 it'll be a black guy shoots me or robs me for every time a
white guy does that i know the numbers because it's open season on white people it's pushed
that doesn't mean i blame all black people and i'm a racist like he is but spiky and all these
guys are nothing but dirt bag chip on their shoulder races who wear this like some type of
crown paul other points you want to make about this there's a photo today of an african-american
woman hugging trump from behind her daughter was shot in the line of duty you know black woman so
i mean all violence is bad but the fact is i think the figure is cops are 18.5 times more likely to
be shot by a black criminal than an unarmed black man is likely to be shot by a cop so obviously
all violence is bad i want to reduce it as much as possible but this whole narrative that like of
african-americans are being hunted down just not true it's not true via and by any foot benchmark
any statistic the other fact of the matter alex is you know you talked about facebook and possibly
info wars being banned on facebook from may 24th it's all about the algorithm alex 80 reduction
in engagement rate on my one of my facebook pages alone the one linked to info wars over the past
10 days alone it went down even further before that you know i used to put up videos on facebook
that could get like 300 400 000 views overnight now it's like sometimes it's like 40 000 they're
listing websites and demoting websites based on their algorithm and they admitted to it so all
this whining about youtube this is not even the biggest issue the biggest issue is the algorithm
facebook's now saying oh we're going to rank it on trustworthiness infowars.com brightbar.com
they're going to be on the blacklist i post info wars articles on facebook with you know like a
million combined followers on my pages they get like 10 20 shares you can post a meme it'll get
it'll get 30 000 shares because they can't list it they can't blacklist it because there's no info
wars.com link so that's the bigger issue that's what we need people in congress asking them questions
about as ted cruise did to some extent but we need more of that to happen for this to be changed
and it's incredible how they're just doing it and then lying about us while the democrats
sue everybody trying to shut them physically down this is hardcore authoritarianism paul what do you
make out of the statement that they sent out saying info wars will no longer be allowed to be
contacted and will no longer be here will no longer be available and of course we make no money on
them letting republicans contact our listeners that are activists but facebook's saying we're
not even going to make money off this which sounds to me like we're just going to be banned on the 24th
of may well i mean that's that's possibly what it means that or at least means that you know
shadow going to be able to associate with us with advertising but listen today's um audience
figures for cnn they've lost 30 of their audience in a week they're collapsing that's why cnn was
lobbying to shut down our youtube channels because they want to extinguish their i know paul i know
you gotta go but you're on fire i want to explain yeah them shutting us down and killing free speech
won't save them and in fact in fact we're just getting more people to our core websites like
drudge predicted info wars dot com news wars dot com but let's explain they're dead i want to plow
into all of this but i'm gonna spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear
and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i don't
want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults
we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine
as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase
of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalist
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right we got jose calzman joining us for the balance the hour here in about two minutes
but i wanted paul watson because we've been talking about 30 minutes to encapsulate
where we are right now the collapse of mainstream media the death row is trying to openly shut down
all conservative christian libertarian national speech ahead of the midterms paul encapsulate that
for folks well the fact is that cnn and all these big media outlets are highly concerned
basically in a blind panic about our increasing influence despite all the efforts being made
against us which as i said before the break are to do with the algorithm there have been studies
done which show the order in which search results for political candidates are listed and the
negativity or positivity attached to those search results can shift millions millions of voters in
national elections they bigger did a big test in india i think it was that proved that um cnn
today we find out has lost 30 percent of its viewers in the past week now on top of that
of obviously they got a big boost from their trump derangement syndrome in the short term
but even with that 90 negative coverage trumps doing well his approval ratings are going up
cnn's viewership is going down and remember their average viewer their average prime time
viewer is aged 70 years old i think it was actually 60 let's let's be great that's 60 years old it
used to be 59 it's getting older my average viewer on youtube and i'm not saying i'm competing directly
with cnn but it's the amalgamation of the alternative independent media my average demographic is 18
to 35 that's the coveted audience cnn cannot cannot get near that their average viewer is 60 years
old and getting older every single year so this is why they're trying to shut us down cnn literally
lobbied for weeks on end to get youtube to shut your channel down my channel down because we
dared questioned the narrative behind the the gun control push after the parkland shooting
they seem to have relented on that for the time being but they're just going to keep coming back
stronger and stronger time and time again and as you've mentioned facebook is now the big perch
with studies showing that conservative pages on facebook have lost significant amounts of
traffic i lost 80 in one week last time i checked so we're all slaves to the algorithm this is the
main focus we need to look at brad pascal trump's 2020 campaign manager is well aware of this that's
the environment that he comes from we've got people asking questions in congress about it
so the fight is on this is the new frontier of censorship it's going to be more related to the
algorithm than actual direct censorship because you know it's it's easier to sell without riling up
too many people shadow banning and algorithm manipulation is the new frontier of censorship
that's what they're going to go for all right paul joseph watching excellent job glad youtube's
backed off for now banning your video uh breaking down hollywood try to push a race war thank you so
much thanks alex now joining us for the balance of the hour is joel scowles an editor of world
affairs brief dot com and i wanted to get him on because his uncle clion scowson uh basically
researched and developed the goals of communism from some of their own documents and public statements
they got read into the record in 1963 that when you read the goals of communism and you see how
much it has actually been achieved it is stunning so we reposted this to info wars dot com read the
secret 45 goals of communism leaked to congress in 1963 in the early 1960s u.s intelligence obtained
uh the 45 goals communist internationals intended to carry out uh to destroy western
civilization and christianity i mean i had him write that it was the communist international
but the point is is that uh you can find this in the congressional record as well and and joel
scowson joins us to get into this because his uncle helped expose it and how the ultra rich want
command and control they're making a lot of money right now off the collapse of venezuela
and then later in the hour we can tie it into current events and things that are unfolding but
going back to the 60s and the naked communist and w clion scowson and your uncle and now
where we are today it's it's just amazing well the first point i want to make alex is that my uncle
wrote this um in the early 60s based upon his research as assistant to jay agrohoover at administrative
assistant at the fbi headquarters in washington dc but he had not yet discovered the globalist
conspiracy yet to him everything what looked like a communist conspiracy and as i've gone through
these 45 goals in uh preparation for your show today it's very interesting because from our
perspective now and even if clain were alive today he died in 2006 if he were alive today
he would agree with me that these goals in fact were globalist goals not exclusive communist
goals and the reason they got pushed through the communist party is the goblas were using
communists to break down the social order to break down various countries like nica agua and cuba
and to and red china uh and so but these were actually engineered by globalists and that's why
even though most of them have not been implemented by actual communists they have happened because
the globalists have continued to do that even after they dismantled the house committee on
unamerican activities even though they got rid of macarthur these goals kept going forward
because these are globalist goals which share a great commonality with communism well i should
have said that out of the gates you know when i said from intelligence files that uh clian scow's
and your uncle was a high-level fbi agent had access to uh you know much of not all the secret
files and was able to compile this but of course as soon as he and uh others like macarthur to
explain that there were ultra rich behind communism i guess they got shut down pretty quick well
the issue it's not so much that the ultra rich controlled directly the communists uh in other
words the communists are not just not puppets of the western globes they are competing for control
of the new world order and the globalists use them for example alger hiss who did join the
communist party uh henry kissinger who joined the communist party in east germany these were
globalists who joined the communist party in order to make the communists think that they
had one of their own in the state department and so as alger hiss led the united states into the
united nation wrote the charter and brought other communists into f dr's white house and the truman
administration white house it wasn't really because alger hiss was a communist it was because he was
a globalist who joined the communist so that they wouldn't question why he was helping them so much
so this is a very sophisticated deception we're dealing with here and it continues today because
the globalists are deeply ensconced in every agency of government and continue to push these goals
well we're going to have plenty of time this hour and maybe five minutes the next hour uh to
lay all this out but this is real history and when you read the goals you're absolutely right
this could be called the 45 goals of globalism being carried out by their allies in the whole
communist system but as you said they are competing factions as well so when we come back from this
quick break we'll lay it all out but in the minute or so we have before we go to break
can you speak more to the relationship between people like george soros and others and the
rockefeller foundation uh with communism and how that whole dialectic works
well as i say the the the globalist the pure globalists themselves like handi kessinger
and alger hiss who joined the communist party i mean george soros has not joined the communist party
they only share the socialist portions of the goals they they use communist in their most
tyrannical form of course to overthrow governments and then of course the globalists coming and rescue
those governments like nicaragua and like el salvador and and cuba which hasn't quite happened yet
but they come in and rescue them with a quasi free market solution which is really a form of
socialism they sell it it's a form of corporatism for example some of these goals it talks about
take over the big corporations well the the communists never did take over the big corporations
not a single one of them but the globalists have have compromised almost every large corporation
especially international that's right this is the real world system we're talking about
where they'll overthrow the czars have communism then work with the communists make huge profits
for themselves out of it then collapse it then come in with oligarchs they control and just do
the same thing over and over and over again now they're talking about coming in and saving venezuela
after propping it up for decades we'll be back to go over the 45 goals of globalism
which old scowls and from the congressional record
want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a
better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 39 95 and
free economy shipping use discount code GCN and get an extra 10 off your purchase at bugassault.com
fire your flies water get your bug assault today water is the single most important thing your
body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands
have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in
every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to goburky.com we're call
877-886-3653 877-886-3653 goburky.com hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature
expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique slingshots and slingbows
on the market at slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798
they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones
the excitement and tradition of slingbow a new frontier and archery and truly modern twist on
this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com healthcare reform is confusing
but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford
needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own
healthcare costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it
is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each
other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org
that's libertyoncall.org
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship
is sending down over the UK they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize
Islam or gays you'll get six months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind
what's happening in the UK CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken
off the web slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash
young people against info wars psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually
hear what we have to say we are the most hated news source in the world by globalist it is so
critical that you go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter
so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can bully their way in and block us being able to
engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you
take action and i know you will nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
he aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side you're listening to alex
jones
welcome back i'm alex jones your host we're 20 minutes of the second hour with us a little bit
in the next hour is jose calvin there's a best-selling author researcher ahead of world
affairs brief that his own background as an officer in the marine corps naval aviator uh
one of the top experts on uh building secure homes strategic relocation we sell his documentary film
and his book and info wars store dot com but all of that uh is is important but not as important as
his uncle clion scousen who was high-level fbi given access to secret files uh to to investigate
the communist menace and then wrote the naked communist then wrote the naked capitalist that
didn't get as much attention but really told the whole story and now if you read what the globalists
say today or what's in the wiki leaks it is the current real world system we live in so a few
minutes about clion scousen a few minutes about uh this whole system and then we'll go into though
the goals the 45 goals of communism uh again leaked to congress via the fbi via clion scousen
back in 1963 and then let's branch this whole thing out just in a few minutes quantify why this
is so important and uh what the naked capitalist really is the the dirty secret well alex the
uh clion had a real wake-up call when he found out during the uh overthrow of cuba and batata
batista uh that uh there were actually high-level people within the state department the second
floor of the state department which controlled foreign affairs that were really protecting the
communist whenever uh various pro batista and pro free castro people uh saw who was manipulating
this situation at the state department they asked for their ouster and uh they were protected clion
found out by high-level people who were not communist then uh you know when he eventually
rose the naked communist which was a critique of a book by a globalist uh that was um really not
authorized by the globalist to speak uh in fact the book was taken out of print uh thereafter his
widow was threatened not be able to reprint the book because in the book he talks about how they
want to control the media they want to control this is speaking of globalist capitalist uh wealthy
people who wanted to control the world that they wanted to control both political parties that they
in essence had controlled both political parties for most uh of the last two decades and so clion
noticed that in the goals of the 45 communist goals those were those their goals to control
both political parties and he realized that the communists couldn't actually directly control them
at best they could get into the socialist party and uh you know a few media people like the the
nation used to be a very communist uh publication uh but he realized that it was much broader than
just the communist conspiracy and there were these wealthy capitalists that were uh controlling the
communists or at least facilitating them coming into the united states and those communists themselves
thought that the globalists were one of them but they weren't they were secretly facilitating it
and then planning a discarding communism later on after and then along comes you know years later
than the late 60s quickly from the globalist perspective just certifying from the inside
1100 pages everything that your uncle has said that's exactly right and uh so the book uh the
naked capitalist really is a critique of carol quigley's book uh who was a professor at georgetown
georgetown is full of globalists uh even today they're the ones that teach at the national war
college and indoctrinate all of our military officers so that they turn out to be globalist
anybody who gets to be a general or an admiral has to say yes to those systems and so it's only
natural when you look at these goals look at it through the eyes of globalists helping and
facilitating communists number one that they should coexist with communism rather than have
atomic war that was a globalist thing containment number two to contain come that was the doctrine
of george kenan who was a globalist not a communist and so you see you see globalists
facilitating all of these doctrines developing in number three the notion of total disarmament
by the u.s would be the highest moral standard and of course your nuclear freeze people were
very much associated with the communist party and were a lot of communists involved in the
anti-nuclear movement but they were being used by the globes to also want to and that ties into the
7277 that's exactly right um and you know they would promote a number four free trade between
all nations and we shouldn't exclude communists from free trade so it wasn't really free trade
it was facilitating trade with communists so that you could uh you know share technology with them
was what we did all through china and russia's history number five was extend long-term loans to
russians and the soviet satellites and you can see obviously the communists would be in favor of
this but the globalists were also in favor of this as well uh number six was to provide american aid
to all nations regardless of communist domination same thing like long-term loans aid you don't
don't want to be prejudiced against communists uh number seven was grant recognition of red china
and admit red china to the un and oust taiwan i mean it's one thing to admit red china but why oust
free china taiwan and why give red china a seat on the security council a permanent seat with a
permanent veto that's got to be for conflict creation purposes and to make sure that that china
and russia can stop uh any actual freedom agenda and uh and that's exactly what they did number
eight was to set up east and west germany as separate states in spite of cruz chest promise
in 1955 to settle the german question by free elections you know what's not told is the u.s
also never required cruzstaff to give back the six thousand u.s military prisoners of war that
stalling kept as insurance to make sure that the u.s uh carried forth operation keelhaul and uh even
when we did operation keelhaul the soviet still never gave up the uh the u.s prisoners of war
or the british prisoner war totaling almost 30 000 people well isn't the korean war a great
example of standing down for the chai comms to take the half control and making macArthur stand
down we could have beat him right then because that was a replay of putting malin power in 1949
the cia it's just a continued basically sabotaging countries to let the communists take over that's
right i mean americans don't know that the russian general controlled all u.s all military operations
under un auspices in the korean war and so all macarthur's plans had to go through it russian
general the only thing that macarthur did not tell the un was his in john landing where he did in a
encirclement and came in almost up at the dmz had cut the chai comms off at the border he did not
tell the un that and they were hopping mad because it was a surprise to them and that's right
well then he figured out though that his orders were being handed on he said look let's just use
atomic weapons in this right now we wouldn't have communist china today if he'd done that
that's right uh and number nine was a uh promote the conferences to ban atomic
protests and that got through but that was a globalist agenda as well number 10 was to allow
all soviet satellite countries individual representation in the un that was passed but
by globalists not necessarily by communists and of course they are free now most of those states
now and still members of the un but i still contend that most of those have puppet governments that
are owing to the soviets just like poland and chakras locky under bachlaw hobble were communist
agents well i know lending to that so many of the e you heads now are former top communist
and and that that that is a fact america look at anglo-america of germany she was an east german
communist well they're right back to go over the 45 secret goals of globalism
bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added
packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon
in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use ordered today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat
bacon dot com this is dan pillard you know the ir's money you can't pay our tax debts crippling
you i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you
too i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless
case call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never
been a better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website
danpillard.com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula
is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the
night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy
at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a
powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or
wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet
simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the
spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars
life dot com that's info wars life dot com we've taken thousands of years of known research and put
it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that
god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical
360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we
have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to
yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that
patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the
remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as
you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time
to change our bodies with z shield and info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
you
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
it is so critical for people to understand that what we're saying here is not our opinion
david rockefeller and many others famously do not want any of this out quickly argued in the late
60s one of the top professors at george town bill clinton's mentor that we're the elite this is
the best system let's brag about it but he at least wrote thousand or so copies for the state
department and cia because he later wrote other books that were widely published where he explained
all this in the 70s and 80s i know because i read them later my dad had them later on the house so
i read them when i became a teenager i was just like this is all admitted then when i went to
college for a few years i could see the programming and i was like my gosh everything my dad told me
was true this is an anti-american anti-free market anti-christian anti-family agenda and didn't
mean like i was some super goody two shoes you know guy going around knocking on doors of the bible
and i'm not knocking folks to do that i was just i don't want to be conquered and you see them promoting
socialism and communism and people with 200 skinny jeans with their thousand dollar smartphones
you know at three thousand dollar uh events like like south by southwest and almost every
person says i'm a communist i'm a socialist i i i like venezuela and they just giggle and laugh
like demons and something he said last week we'll we'll push because i have stuff to add we'll push
and he won't mind um our guest from Italy who's so on target leo zagami just back like five ten
minutes we have times because i was going late today but you see the disease the evil the corruption
the the atheism the anti-christian garbage that comes with it and you and then you read the deeper
text of this and you read the council on foreign relations and all of them admitting what they're
doing like we're dumb animals they admit the geoengineering they admit the breakup of the family
they admit all these horrors in their textbooks even for phd's and the phd's laugh and go alex
the public's never gonna care they're animals you ought to join us that is so fundamentally sick
and then under them because they treat people like animals because they're the real animals
these globalist society collapses but they love that because then they've got control over free will
because they can starve people to death it is it is the most diabolical satanic program not even
from a christian perspective but if i just looked at this program it's what i'd call satanic and
and how they get people roped in to wanting to follow what are going on with it makes my head
hurt but but but jill scowles as you continue on here just in the contemporary how they've got
democrat senator on tv right now during the break saying oh they've got proof that trump you know
the russians favored him and all this baloney when when it's just it's just amazing to know
what traders these people are how they're openly part of an ideology to sell the country out and
to kill free market for the average person and then they grandstand about how i'm a russian
agent or trump is or we're agents of this foreign power how they flipped it around when they're the
foreign globalist and then they somehow turn it around that those of us that are fighting
we're the bad guys it says you keep saying they'll attack anybody who covers conspiracy
because that's how they operate that is what they do there is a democrat conspiracy to overthrow
trump with russia gay there is a conspiracy to get rid of our sovereignty there is a conspiracy
to get rid of our borders there are open conspiracies to break up our families i mean it's there
and if you don't approach it from that it's all rearranging deck chairs on the titanic that's my rant
well it's true alex uh you know going to point number 11 they want to promote the un as the only
hope for mankind and if its charter is rewritten rewritten demand that they set it up as a one
world government with its own military independent armed forces now that won't happen and hasn't
happened yet but that's what world war three is all about and absorbing a nuclear first strike on
us military forces so that our globalist leaders can come out of their bunkers and induce everyone
to join a militarized global government that's point number 11 that's a globalist point remember
that the communists have never really promoted the un as its only hope for mankind they want to
form their own type of new world order under communist control china wants to form their own
so they're competing against the western globals to want this form the most sophisticated deceiving
form because you see only the globalists are sophisticated enough to tell people you're still
free you still have democracy you still have individual rights like they do in the eu constitution
but then there are all these exceptions built in you know except when social justice needs this
and except when society needs the article 30 and 31 then say oh actually you have all these
rights except for the un says you don't right precisely uh number 12 is resisting any attempt
to outlaw the communist party you know uh it's this is all about the censorship thing you know
the liberals are very good about saying you know we don't want to ban anybody but when it comes to
alex jones and info wars they do want to ban you in other words communists are okay but the
ultra right the extremists as they call us you know that's never okay and we will face a ban
just as we are and we're not really what they even call ultra right aren't we just traditional
nationalist yes they're against that too they're against anyone who's in favor of western uh
promoting western civilization or culture you know you can have a black power club at high
school you can have a latino club you can have a you know you can use black you can use latino
you can use every name except white you cannot have anything that promotes the caucasian uh
culture or race and not that we need to that's not the point we can let history speak for itself
but it really is a one-sided and very hypocritical politically well they know under the christian
ethos that we want to have everybody come together so they use our strength against us
and and and then and then try to make minorities all under communist systems liberation theology
race-based uh so that all just explodes so they can decentralize uh and then and then
bring everything back into a consolidated system but first they want to create the crisis of the
race war that's right that's right number 13 they want to do away with loyalty owes now that
loyalty owes came about because of the macarthur area and taking a loyalty oath but you know we
still have the constitutional oath unfortunately it is not being enforced nobody has been prosecuted
for violating the constitution it's just a hollow form of an oath that we use today number 14
continued giving russia access to the u.s patent office and that was a globalist school because
that's how they gave russia technology secrets without directly transferring and look and look
at china today they take it the day it's posted there that's exactly right uh number 15 capture
one or both political parties in the u.s now the communists never did this but the globalists
of course have done both it captured both the democratic and republican parties and run them
you know as party a and party b but they're both globalist parties number 16 use technical
decisions of the courts to weaken basic american institutions this is done through
the aclu of fabian socialists and others uh which started out as outright communist fronts
uh and now have a more uh you know mainstream view but in point of fact they have controlled
now the actual courts and not because the judges themselves are communist but they are globalist
and those that aren't globalists that are under control are under blackmail they have a tremendous
not a blackmail of judges to keep them uh in control especially those who are extensively
conservatives in the supreme court like judges robertson justice thomas they have ample blackmail
on them to turn them as they did uh justice robertson the obama care decision number 17 get
control of the schools well frankly the communists have not got control of the schools but the
globalists certainly have and that's been going on ever since the founding of the public school
movement was meant to take it away from private hands take it away from a great example is bill
gates they use the government running it to ruin it and then have the new corporate takeover that's
even worse which is the globalization of schools that's exactly right gain control number 18 of
all student newspapers well there really aren't a lot of communists except in a few major ivy
universities but it's it's hard to tell the difference between a hardcore communist and a
a hardcore leftist and almost all students at the leadership level have left us at major universities
we gotta go to break but yeah yeah there's socialist communists but they don't even know they're a
communist they'll laugh at it even though some of them have like mal tattoos and stuff that they
think it's cute it's funny and they go oh we only want communism for america and we're like oh because
it doesn't work anywhere else but it's going to work here what they really want is to be in control
they see that they're creating a new hierarchical system and they believe because they're college
students they'll be part of the anointed new priesthood they're really authoritarians western
europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down
over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays you'll get six
months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn and
many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a professor
and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the most hated news
source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com or slash newsletter
and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't bully
their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical
to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will fueling your body is hard work
that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and
take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study
probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you
break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay
fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how
well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today prank in north carolina thanks for holding so
long go ahead yeah i just have to say something man it seems like every time i turn on your
broadcast you're bragging it just gets old man i'm gonna shut you down right now okay we're taking
calls about your nomination do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut
us down do you understand i'm ringing the alarm if that was happening to anybody else i'd be freaked
out i mean what's it gonna take us being shut down is that what you want frank you know what i
like i put him on pause again hey frank do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the
tip of the spear we're under attack we need your help as much begging as i do we can barely pay the
bills and grow in the face of this i'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing
us backwards you understand i need your help frank i need your help frank go to info wars store
dot com right now and help fund the info do you understand i need your help frank free press
needs your help frank info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce
our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin
d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants
known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of
toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun
is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took
over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin
d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3
not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function
something the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
all right leo zagami has been in the p2 lodge and limonade in
roam i've been over there i've met with him he knocks on doors against the castles all
whole nine yards um he's very interesting fellow he he said this pope would come in years before he
did he predicted that the pope would then start saying it would be a precedent for two popes at
once or for popes to retire after a term the pope just announced that yesterday he said about a year
ago that the that the folks in the Vatican would be the whole society of Jesus the Jesuits would
be taking over the the order of nights of malta that just happened last week so he's gonna be
joining us we're pushing him back 15 minutes because i got late with paul the whole censorship
emergency going on but i want to say something right up front here i don't take on george
soros and the globalists because i have a death wish i do it because they're instinctive and
in spiritual level i cannot give in to them because i know they're pure evil so it's it's
it's like a burning in the bones and they've told me in a bunch of lawsuits they'll just add a thing
about calling george soros a nazi and i've been known stop calling him a nazi leave him alone
kiss his ring and you'll be left alone and years ago there was overtures from the whole soros
combine and then facebook said oh try your facebook now and i'd have like two million views on every
video they unblocked me then about a month later that you're not being nice to zuckerberg boom you're
blocked now i'm gonna be totally banned that's fine i'm not trying to make it in your system
but that said i don't want to get up here and for everybody just to act all jolly about this
and i don't like to even let the enemy know they're having an effect but they know what they're
doing they i want to grow i want to go 24 hours a day at least 20 hours a day by the end of the
year i want to expand we're having a big effect on tv now on on cable and stuff but you know we're
about two million dollars behind what we were last year that sounds like a lot of money it's not just
the uplinks and stuff's like a million bucks a year okay and so blocking us from advertising online
bunch of places going after sponsors all the crap they pulled not to mention all the lawsuits
two million behind so it's simple if they could start making us contract their winning
we need to expand these critical midterms are absolutely vital i need you to go to the store
i need you to get great supplements our turmeric formula the strongest one you can find out there
50% off right now our fluoride free toothpaste is excellent that's all 50% off we've got
so many other great products x2 is 25% off even though it's close to selling out we've got it
with the bio true selenium 50% off those two things combo these are the biggest sales we've
ever done for this time of year and we've got all super blue products 50% off so
we've also got strategic relocation a big thick color coffee table book with global information
national information super accurate about you know the most safe places to live if you don't
have storeable food we've got the highest quality there i'm fighting to try to fix things but more
and more i realize the fights for people's brains their souls long term the big tech giants all of
it the public being so weak and so evil and i'm not perfect either but i'm way more moral
compared to most people and just in the work ethic here and people are very lazy they don't even
want to work i like to work and i'm just saying civilization we're losing it folks everybody's
getting depressed mental illnesses exploding this is all admittedly scientifically done we're under
very high tech attack only being fully conscious of it gives you any shot and asking jesus christ
you know for protection and i'm serious that's all that really does at the end of the day work
against this evil and i'm gonna leave it at that some of the stuff they've pulled on me all i can
say is god jesus it's yours please help me this is a very critical time folks better know it and
i need you to go to info or store.com if you want to see us rampage forward now they may just put a
bullet in me but i don't think they want to turn me into a martyr instead they want to assassinate my
character and they want to try to slow us down and destroy us i don't see that happening but
if it continues and and people don't buy the products and the t-shirts and the stuff you need
anyways when it's already so great then they will cause us to contract if you understand this is a
war a fight we're all in and we've been chosen as an example here kind of like we're your gladiator
or you're champion i'm not perfect believe me like an el sit analogy where they have two guys fight
decide you know for the kingdoms instead of having a full blown war it's kind of like that and when
they bring me down they've said openly they're going to try to come after everybody else next
show facebook is announcing that we're basically banned the 24th we're going back to joel scowze
and i appreciate him going through the goals of globalism which are really the goals of communism
and intertwined i said world affairs brief dot com i have a copy of it from the congressional record
on info wars dot com but but we're understanding the real system according to them this isn't
all the smoke screens and the rest of it you're getting the real enchilada okay please continue
with the goals or you can comment on what i just talked about here we'll have two more segments to
finish up on the goals it's your choice i just have to put out those ss those sos you know
emergency transmissions the listeners so they understand just how serious this fight's gotten
oh it is it is very serious alex and you really are the tip of the spear and
the main target for them so uh we do need to help and support your efforts
number 19 is to you is something communists are very deeply involved and still are to this day
and that is using a student protest anytime george soros wants to gin up a protest against
trump or immigration or gun control he calls the the communist organizers who bring out the student
protest and of course there's a lot of follow on follow on people in in the public schools because
they're all trained in liberalism and in colleges so it's very easy to go beyond the communist
cadres those are the core people that they still use to gin up protests number 20 is infiltrate
the press that's something that globalists have done much more than the communist same thing with 21
which is gaining control of key positions and radio tv and motion pictures there were communist
oriented people a lot of those were soft communists not outright communist organizers and uh the left
of course is predominant in all of the media here and it's not just the left-wing media really is a
pro-government media which means that controlled by the globalist control system the deep state if you
will cia pays for a lot of journalists up to $50,000 a year they pay off judges they collect
these payoffs at casinos oftentimes in chips so that they can launder these bribes to judges
number 22 through 24 talk about discrediting and destroying american western culture
while that's a communist school that's also a globalist goal that's what creating conflict and
driving muslim refugees into europe is all about that's what's driving latin americans to the united
states not so much because they're that much different in culture because it waters down the
conservative voting values but you know you control art critics you control and get rid of laws
controlling obscenity and you loosen up censorship when it comes to communism but then you tighten
down censorship when it comes to the right wing which we're seeing and talking about today
promoting pornography 25 that's been done you know a lot of these things like obscenity and
pornography there's a tremendous amount of satanic influence on the lives of people that
promotes this you don't have to be a communist to get on this bandwagon for promoting the libertine
lifestyle and the pornography there's a natural natural man incentive to go that direction by
the way that was a term i misused about five years ago i'm a libertarian i'm a libertine
my dad's like libertine means you're like a satanic sex person alex don't use that so
sometimes i use the wrong terms but absolutely i mean behind all this really is a satanic influence
yes that's right we can't underestimate that and especially when it comes to the degeneracy of
sexual and and one's natural sexuality homosexuality transgender all of the
stuff that's being promoted there's very much a satanic agenda that isn't to say that all
homosexuals are satanic some of those are just consuming their own particular less and going
after sex in a way that the lord doesn't approve of but in any case this combined with the next
school's 27 28 and 29 about eliminating religion as an eliminating prayer in schools and religious
expressions by government this is very much the dumbing down of religion and a lot of its
voluntary pastor chuck Baldwin has been very vocal about the fact that the mainstream churches
just won't take a stand against and let's remember when this was said in congress is 63 with your
uncle from the FBI exposing it this sounded like space alien talk people couldn't believe this
would ever happen and we look at it it's almost all happened that's right this has all happened
that especially the dumbing down of religion i mean it's very difficult to find any religion even a
lot of traditional evangelical religions which used to be hardcore conservatives are very very soft
conservatives now they won't stand up to government a lot of that happened during the george w bush
regime when dairy fall well and others got invited to the white house for friday prayer breakfast
and then we saw obama go after him with the irs we'll be right back in two minutes with joe
scowls and two more segments to finish up the 45 goals of the communists which you were then learned
were the globalists uh and again this is critical information two different groups with the same
agenda kind of big tech giants all want to have the ai god all in a place humans all believe they're
going to merge with machines unless your elan musk he's worrying about it but they're all fighting
with each other to get that control and that is the great luciferian deception stay with us hour
number three two minutes away guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals
is crucial with info wars life select storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready
for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year
there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as
traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner
info wars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even
work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked
up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select
storable foods the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal
absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so
much more regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines
turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for
full body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at 188-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex
jones show all right jose calzen for two more segments editor-in-chief world of first brief
dot com excellent news and information i haven't even gotten into all this other news no whites
allowed day at evergreen university continues in the second year if you will criticize it you are
expelled or professors are fired a swedish bishop welcomes muslim call to prayer
that's good for society churches are not allowed all over europe have the articles have their church
bells at one third the decibels of the call to prayer i mean this is just a deliberate rubbing
the nose this is the ecumenical world council of churches devil pope takeover of christianity
and again i've never been a critic of of catholics in general but man i gotta tell you the big modern
devil pope that we've got we're gonna be discussing that this guy's going for broke
finishing up with jones calzen again you can find his great amazing book everybody should order
nm4store.com you can also find the film there where he breaks it all down it's it's it's vital
information you can also find it at worldoffirstbrief.com you can also send we'll tell you later an
email you can send and get a free copy of his latest issue like three four minutes in this
segment ten minutes the next and we'll get you out of here sorry i got you on late we had some
big emergency breaking news earlier with censorship that's just going into total high gear but
finishing up with what you were getting into with the takeover of the churches you were just
mentioning in the next communist goal you know this has not been so much as a direct takeover
by a communist this has been a use of political correctness to sensitize pastors so that they
don't want to do anything to offend homosexuals you don't want to do anything to offend liberals
and so it just excused the the conversation and the narrative in churches to the soft social
doctrine you want to talk about the soft jesus christ the all-loving jesus you never talk about
the fury of the lord the millstone around the neck of those that abuse children or any of the hard
doctrines uh of jesus christ it's only now the soft version of christian christ beating people
with cat or nine tails be overturning tables kicking bankers in the face samson tumbling
down buildings on top people uh you moses throwing down tablets burning people to death there's none
of that that's right and there's no remembrance of the fact that jesus called the Pharisees he
vipers and hypocrites i mean those were the strongest words you could use in the jewish as
culture and so this was hardly loving your neighbor in the embracing sort of way and that's what
christianity has become only the soft version but you know this the goals 29 and 30 discredit the
u.s constitution is old fashioned and discredit the founding fathers that's really been taken over
by the liberals in the universities they really the globalists aren't trying anymore to get rid
of the constitution they are content to control the constitution through legal interpretation
in fact you talk about well they're killing it by fiat though but i mean i mean for all
of its purposes they're overriding that's right but they're not eliminating it they can work within
it i mean that's their response they're just twisting it up in pretzels yes and any constitutional
says we want to restore the constitution says we don't mind because we interpret the constitution
according to case law and that's exactly what they do um of course you have control of teachers
of american history so that you've restored american history and culture and refuse to talk
about the things that really enhance the second amendment or the christian base of american culture
all that was a communist school and it's also a globalist school number 32 is support any socialist
movement to give government more centralized control in social agencies welfare programs
especially drawing upon the heartstrings of americans to give give give and internationally as well
even though we're essentially bankrupt as a nation um number 34 eliminated the house of
house committee on american activities they did do that that was through american liberals
not through the communists themselves number 35 has not happened discredited and eventually
dismantled the fbi basically the deep state took over the fbis we've seen with commie and
and moeller and and and even now with christian array and insider in the fbi they did not dismantle
it and don't intend to dismantle it because they've now co-opted the fbi made it a tool of the deep
state infiltrate and control more unions yes that incurred in spades unions used to be especially
totally controlled by communist front organizations now they're simply you know deep into corruption
not necessarily communism uh number 37 they did not gain control of big business but the globalist
did let's come back over the final few and i'm gonna give you the floor in the segment to really
lay out then this amalgamation that your uncle talked about 50 years ago that's been confirmed
of how they synergistically move them together fueling your body is hard work that's why we've
introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars
life daily digestive pack today
jose calisthenes here for one more segment then leo zagami is going to be joining us with
the huge developments of the vatican that affect everything because the vatican is now a hundred
percent globalist you could argue about the past or whatever but it is now a world government
christianity is bad open to islam one world government communism is good it is just insane
so that's all coming up and then i've got some other news we're going to weave into this and
in tina this the article is up on info wars dot com it's on news wars dot com read the secret 45
goals of communism leaked via fbi investigation to congress 1963 when leon scousen the uncle of
or clion scousen the uncle of jose calisthenes with us now expose it and again this is critical as he
follows the last few communism was never meant by the globalists to take full control they just
financed it and controlled it to break up countries to kill the christians then come in the globalists
as saviors and then bring in a quasi system we saw three years ago obama went to argentina chile uh
and uh also he went to africa but he gave the same speech now you need communism but you also
need big corporations you'll be communist and then the corporations will work with you so he put it
all together and the people are like hmm these are all phd students so this is the system uh so so
joel finish up the other points and i'm going to give you the floor here and then just get into then
how we tie all this together because we are breaking down right now the true global system
that we're operating under goal number 38 was to transfer some of the arrest powers of police to
social agencies now while that hasn't happened what has happened is the subsidiary of that goal
to treat all behavior problems of psychiatric orders to give psychiatrists more power to
incarcerate people for psychiatric that's a thing that the communists were very very good at the
soviet agency we're heading towards that um and they do the left does dominate the psychiatric
profession uh you know they refuse psychiatrists refuse to talk about the key things that really
understand human behavioral problems one the innateness of the spirit of the man which comes
certain predisposition of some good and some evil uh the workings of conscience and the how
satan and the lord interact with people and how they reject the lord sometimes and get taken over
by satanic influence especially suicide or use a gun to commit crimes etc those are something
that psychiatrists cannot cure society's ills or even now analyze them correctly without
understanding the role of conscience and the role of satan to speak to people's minds which they do
not accept unfortunately uh discredit the family as an institution number 40 and make a divorce
easy that has happened happened through liberals not necessarily through communists uh emphasize
the need to raise children away from the negative influence of parents goal number 41 now that is
a communist goal but that has not and will not be implemented directly in the united states
but the role of the public schools in basically taking over the raising children and indoctrinating
them and schooling them and uh you know making them susceptible to homosexuality that's happening
and that is a globalist goal that has been accomplished uh unlike communist country they
take children away from parents number 42 create the impression of violence and interaction on
legitimate aspects of american tradition that goes back to the protests and the left background
in protest uh number 43 has been fully accomplished over through all colonial governments and turn
them over to pro-communist regimes as they did in africa number 44 internationalized the panama
canal the communist frankly didn't do that jimmy carter and the globalists did it uh and it has
helped the communist but it was more for globalist purposes and number 45 is very important it has
not happened repeal the connolly reservation where this was a in accepting the world court
the u.s. Senate passed the connolly reservation basically that we can reject world court jurisdiction
for anything that interferes with national sovereignty or u.s. internal policy and other
countries have adapted forms of that too and that's what has kept the world court at bay uh all of
these years and so that number 45 has not been accomplished and so uh in general what i want
to say is that uh these goals are moving forward under the ages of globalism which uses communism
and it's very much pointing americans towards what life is going to be like in a globalist world
government i can tell you very very strongly that when globalist government comes it will not be like
communist tyranny they will not be ownership of all the means of protection you'll still have
private companies but it'll be more like fascism they control the companies they control you through
taxation they control through you through politically correct mandates for example you've
got a 50 percent women on your boards of directors you've got to have certain amount of latinos and
certain amount of blacks there'll be quotas oh you're still free you have all these rules and
controls which will restrict your ability to be free and that's why there's the beating everyone
over the head that you're racist if you're white you're racist if you're white but it was england
worldwide that fought a bunch of wars to enslave or even attack dust over it all these muslim
countries are still running it but no one cares you know i was out with friends on a boat this
weekend with my children and i pulled in to get some gas and these were i they said they were
ethiopian but then they kind of act like they were muslim and they said you know we're really
disappointed in your video saying that blacks don't have any technology about south africa and i
said i didn't say that no technology ever came out of there and they said well was this video
and i go you mean the video where south african black leaders are calling for genociding whites
and taking their land and the guys smiled said yeah that video and it was like i was supposed to
be guilted and feel bad when i'm in there buying gas and stuff at this little floating gas station
out there on the lake and it was like this pride that i'm the bad white person and they're the good
people and i'm the bad guy i'm gonna get them on the show i got the guys number i said hey come on
in here you know show me what i said show me what i did and it's just this thing of like everybody's
fighting to get into uh the us or europe or australia but then the communist deputy leader in the
defense department in south africa and the current president you know are saying oh you whites you're
not allowed to leave but if you do give us all your property and then calling australia racist if
they take whites but then african athletes go for the olympics in australia or sporting events
i've got it the news today and they're all trying to stay there so all i'm saying is i i've never
done anything to anybody and i'm just sick of hearing about it all day and the media beating me over
the head and then people acting like they've got some type of status over me because i'm white this
is the very type of cultural racism that that they claim they're fighting and it's just force fed
everywhere and it's disgusting and i'm sick of it but you're right alex class warfare is the name
of the game coming up and it's going to get bad it's part of the class conflict and the more
they bring in different cultures incompatible cultures into western culture the easier it's
going to be to have and you can see hollywood is just 24 seven i mean it's just thousands of movies
shows everything is just over the top but people are rejecting it hollywood's going bankrupt the
cnn's collapsing but they don't care they just keep pressing it well i think a lot of their
bankruptcy is because of their over the top cost uh not because a lot of ignorant people aren't going
to those movies and that's the problem is that public schooling is probably the greatest danger
to us culturally and that we are destroying western culture we're making religion laughable
in public schooling uh we teach them nothing about the constitution nothing about the rule of law
other than knee jerk follow government type of rule of law so i think public schooling is our
greatest danger and if i would have any message if you really want to change things you need to
get your children out of public schools start homeschooling them we're using private schooling
start organizing yourself into churches because if you continue to lose your children to the
public schools you are not going to be able to save them from the social doctors and social
mulu bulu that is that they're swimming in well there's no doubt this is a scientific plan to
bring down civilization it's in the wiki leagues they admitted it's amazing jules kaussman editor
of world affairs brief thank you so much for spending time with us if people can email you
can't then get a free copy yes email me an editor at world affairs brief dot com and you can get
a free sample of the current world affairs brief all right thanks for breaking down the 45 goals
of the globalist 45 goals of communism uh with us today very important broadcast all people get it
out to everyone they know thank you sir thank you we're covering facts folks that's why they hate us
we're putting out the blueprint of the globalist they think you're dumb or at least they used to
think you were dumb it wouldn't care so they didn't care about us and now they know you care so they
want to shut down we'll be back with leo zagami from rome talk about on target we'll be right back
you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer finally someone
has come out and written what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government ever we're in a
constitutional crisis and our government is now being run ruled by a shadow government we got to
get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other people are this is critical
to get to read the government library to give you the church get them right now at killing uncle
sam buck dot com killing uncle sam buck dot com want revenge on the common housefly well after 10
thousand years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun
you'll forget you have a wife and kids 39 95 and free economy shipping use discount code gcn and
get an extra 10 off your purchase at bug assault dot com fire your fly swatter get your bug assault
today most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the us what if i told
you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract
we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it
check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack dot com or do order call 866 295 5305 that's 866
295 5305 hbxtrack dot com don't risk it when you can take charge of it water is the single most
important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family
since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest
price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in fuller's life
they take hours michael zx plus and now has a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation
in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids
so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store dot com and remembering that it's
not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential
to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and
from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure
win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and
it's made in the usa get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha
power today you're listening to the alex jones show
so
pastor rodney howard brown an amazing patriot dot com studios will be in studio with us for two
hours tomorrow so i am certainly looking forward to that again thank you for joining us i am your
host alex jones we've got about 45 minutes left uh going a little bit in the next hour
then we have another special guest that is going to be joining us and we're going to have a lot of
live news analysis with roger stone as well ladies and gentlemen here is the big announcement
if you just tuned in we've got leo zegami the best-selling author vatican insider somebody who
has been so on target with everything going on in the vatican for the 15 years i've been aware of
him it is staggering and folks know i don't just say this about really any of our guests the information
is just unbelievable five years before we ever heard of this current pope he said he'll be your
next pope and then there'll be another pope still living at the same time to set the precedent
and then you'll have two popes at once and then he will resign later to set the precedent that
it's like an office you hold for four to six years the pope announced that yesterday he also
exposed cardinal pel many years ago as running giant pedophile rings to black male the vatican
later it came out in the guardian that indeed that's how this new black pope or jesuit pope
got in he was then the first person to report that the trial would be blacked out and that no one
would know about it at leo zegami dot com days later weeks later it all comes out word for
word what he said so this is so critical because the globalists have totally seized control of
vatican they're trying to destroy the good elements of the catholic church pro family
things like that anti-abortion and you have an ecumenical true luciferian takeover here is
leo zegami dot com the vatican attempts complete media ban of cardinal pel's trial that was days
before it was then mainstream news uh pope says he thought about when it's time to take leave and
says that he set the precedent these are quotes from the pope from vatican city that you can have
two popes or three popes at once word for word with leo zegami has said cardinal pel's sexual
abuse trials may be held in secret now the new york times after the zegami breaks it days ago
confirms that prosecutors seek media ban on trial of papal aid this is the guy that delivered a
little boys to the other pedophile cardinals they're not all pedophiles but this is how the
left takes over australia court staffer fired for reading charges against cardinal pel even court
staffers aren't even allowed to know but we know it's hundreds of traffic children but here's the
big one pel's trial and other scandals may finally push the pope to finally resign that's the big news
is can we get rid of this evil pope and not get another counterfeit globalist in there and can
we push armageddon and this whole thing down the road a little bit for those of us that love our
children because if he didn't say tanning calling for open borders and the islamification of europe
and and and ordering churches to take down crucifix and put up you know islamic iconography if this
guy isn't an antichrist spirit then i don't know what is joining us as leo zegami again from rome
amazing leo you you you know everything before it comes out and i don't know of no one else because
i tracked this that does so amazing job with your sources briefly without giving away sources how do
you do it and then tell us what's currently happening well i always stay in touch with my sources
even a couple of hours ago i got a breaking info regarding the new grandmaster of the nights of
malta that might ask himself now to resign after there is much discontent in the traditionalist
nights of malta and as you know also somebody from the court proceedings regarding cardinal pel
broke from the internal computer system trying to access information on cardinal pel and that
immediately was reported by the court this morning during the trial that is assuming of
course the characteristics of a very important moment for the history of the church and at the
same time in rome we have all the chilean cardinals my family also part of my family comes from chile
my grandfather was born in chile even if he was of Scottish descent and my ex-family house in
Valparaiso is even a monastery donated to the catholic church so i'm very close to the catholic
church in chile which is suffering through this pedophilia that has involved many cardinals many
bishops from chile and now of course they all went to rome so the pope is really having problems
with this escalation sudden on both sides in australia and chile and he is finally announcing
what we have been saying for years that he might resign but that's because he wants to avoid of
course also impeachment from his own cardinals that are criticizing everything he has done which
is really putting the church in a very bad position also here in italy in the last few hours
politically the church is criticizing both Matteo Salvini and Luigi Di Maio that are
trying to do this coalition of populist forces to save italy but the Vatican is against it and
probably they're not going to be able to put together this government because also the EU
is against them criticizing them even before they start so this is a dictatorship both political
and religious that sees the Vatican embedded with the left wing worldwide it is simply totally
transparent and is outraged traditional catholics which are the real catholics out there who are
great people in my experience really bedrock of fighting corruption just to see it totally take
over via a pedophile scandal that i remember you talking about over a decade ago i remember
my 2005 six seven watching videos of you and i ordered a few of your books and thinking man
this guy claims he knows it all and then seeing that you were you were accurate because you live
in Rome and have family in chili where he's from and have been deeply connected to the church so
obviously you have a lot of sources of the more traditional conservatives as i witnessed when i
traveled around with you in Rome for days all the places you took us into and you know the way
the guards treated you and all you know all the other things but but looking at this i'm concerned
that it's like he's finishing his work he just took over the night some malta he's doing things
that haven't happened ever he's consolidating and then he kind of goes away and then who like
shark teeth rolls in behind that i mean i'm really worried if it looks like he's about to finally fall
what a monstrous counterfeit that that that what may be coming in and that power struggle
what might come in is a pope from africa that is 90 percent possibilities that we get an african
pope because of course is from the third world is from those places which actually are bringing
a major influx of immigrants into europe and so they are preparing to receive them pop francis
is in bed with the globalists so he's of course he knows what he's doing but i think in the last
a few days he's really having trouble in keeping all all this together because there is major
criticism coming within certain establishment and i mean if the grandmaster that is just being nominated
of the nights of malta resigns well that would be the final draw i think that at that point
pope francis will have to resign immediately but at the moment the the fact he has already
announced this possibility means that he's gonna resign in the coming months and you remember alex
when i announced three years ago the possibility that this pope will resign what kind of criticism
we got oh no stay there i mean but word for word what you said is what he's saying he says i set
the precedent with with what happened with rat singer so i can do it again i mean he says what
you said this is dianne billard you the irish money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you
i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you to
i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case
call 834 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never been
a better time to solve your problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website
dan pillow dot com fellow patriots my name is todd savage founder of black rifle real estate
dot com like you i was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state until one day i chose to
leave my family to freedom today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot hunt
garden and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking ogres if you're
ready to flee the city to the freedom of idaho or montana our black rifle real estate team is here
to help go to black rifle real estate dot com that's black rifle real estate dot com
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural
disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars
life selects storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better
place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work
great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for
you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're
stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life selects
storable foods staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom
kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for
daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier
or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by
toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is
easy and affordable helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver
immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com western europe
has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down over the uk
they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays you'll get six months in
present we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn and many
others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a professor
and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the most hated news
source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com forward slash
newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the sensors
can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that
is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
you're listening to the alex jones show
you found the front lines of the human awakening it's the info war and now alex jones
i mean you can see what the big mega corporations are doing they've exploited the third world
then they have hollywood put out all this race war stuff they're bringing third world populations
put chips on their shoulders and then just break down society from there this is incredible
within the ultra rich they're all exempt from it total class warfare the vatican pushing and all
180 foot walls that says europe can't have any walls it's incredible we are funded by viewers
and listeners like you through watching or listening to us on local tv stations please
support their sponsors please become a sponsor whatever you do spread the word about how
you're watching or listening there is massive censorship going on and attempts to shut us
down on the internet but we do have info wars dot com and news wars dot com we are reaching
record numbers of people there thanks to you spreading the word so without you the globalists
win and at info war store dot com that's the umbrella site info wars live dot com takes
you right to the supplements and interstitials we have some of the biggest specials ever on
our best selling items because i found people just order a lot more of it when it's at 50% off
even though there's really not a lot of profit in each item once we do that the trap is you
keep offering it at that people wanted it that well we've got it at that x2 those 25% off it's
already so low cost very hard to secure the deep breath crystals for that this may be our next
to last run of that it is amazing we have the other great products like the super blue fluoride
free toothpaste that's a four to five colloidal silver and iodine it is amazing go read the
thousands of five star reviews about it and the mouthwash that's also four to five with colloidal
silver and iodine the three different sizes of immune gargle they also have it for children
info wars store dot com info wars live dot com or triple eight two five three three one three nine
and again there's over let's just go to the regular toothpaste i think it's got like four
thousand reviews five star reviews by power reviews because if you do the combo pack that's just a
week old special where you get all of them together 50 off and free shipping but there's no reviews
so it has zero reviews yeah look at us three thousand four hundred plus five star reviews on
third party sites no one's got that i really should be reading these reviews more on air but just
see why they're so great there's no fillers no additives and then you're funding the tip of the
spear in the face of the globalist and all these guests we have on i have the guest on that are
accurate i have the guest on that have proven they know what they're talking about i have the guest
on that are being persecuted i have the guest on that are changing the world i have that's what
we're doing we are saying somebody's got to do it somebody's got to stand up to soros and hillary
somebody's got to say no to them somebody's got to do it and we're here we're going all the way to
the end and you know what leo zigami's the first person up there saying this jesuit communist
globalist was going to take over using pedophilia and that his right hand man was a pedophile
procurer a renfield it's all he's now indicted he's in court it's all secret so now that you
told us how you knew all this leo because you are not just saying this you are when it comes to the
vatican you're the most accurate guy out there and i know you've been part of the branch of the
illuminati the real deal the whole nine yards have exposed it uh as a christian eliminist which
is what christ really did they're the satanic counterfeit of that everything they do is a
counterfeit so there's always a real thing and then there they're the counterfeit then people
see the real thing and they think oh wait you must be the bad thing because the bad thing's
masquerading is the real thing like blend bet tries to do with me or ben Shapiro but you have laid
this out you have predicted it all so we're really listening to you right now because even if you're
not a catholic folks this affects europe the whole world globalism this guy is one of the main weapons
being used he says he wants fake news ban he runs georgetown savagely suing us calling for us to be
shut down i mean we are under attack by by the by the literal jesuit institution uh hillary called
herself a jeewittical thinker uh well my god if that's catholic then i'll eat my horse uh i mean
this is just insane so you predicted it all you said they'd have a secret trial it's now happening
so let's move into this trial cardinal pell this ghoulish procure what he's actually known for
doing that's come out before that you first broke that they've now sealed from the media and even
the court clerk criminal charges for looking at it what you're supposed to do this is unbelievable
so so again uh how are they even having a kangaroo trial or court in australia uh uh uh of the
pedophile pubs procure uh for compromising folks and does this pope like little boys little girls
or is it just me because i know a lot of them don't actually have sex with the kids they just
use it to control everybody under them and so we should also talk about that leo zegami
well as you know there is an international pedophile ring and part of this pedophile ring
is even run by terrorists like isis and people like al baghdadi now information that in the
vadigan is circulating in the last few hours is that al baghdadi is somewhere in syria protected
by the vadigan and the americans and he's still alive and this is an information that i got also
this afternoon from luciano consorti who is a member of daisies and a journalist in italy
and this is of course a big news mecain is apparently protecting of course baghdadi but
of course mecain is also very sick in the last few days and his health is deteriorating so
there is a situation here where the isis has helped the vadigan and the mondialis pushing
these migrants towards the invasion of europe and my way it erupts and so on this sounds insane
the pope what six months ago an a year ago said isis is like jesus spreading the gospel
yes unfortunately yes so that that is his words it's a scandalous and it's very scandalous that
al baghdadi who said to be dead is not dead at all and is actually hidden in a secret base in syria
protected by the americans because there is a compromise here being made by the way i was told
that my high-level army sources months ago i never went on air with it lay it out slow for folks
secret u.s bases protecting al qaeda isis trump doesn't even know this or understand it he keeps
ordering it shut down explain this well of course there is these bases and they are protecting
al baghdadi because he's counted as a resource against the russians which of course are still
the enemies of the liberals and the enemies number one of the democrats at least in this
massive propaganda effort that every day brings in russia into the equation so we should as you said
many times arrive with christian russia instead with the terrorists but al baghdad is also financed
by saudi arabia and of course this is also part of the military industrial complex and
the workers unfortunately they do behind the scenes that is limiting the efforts of trump
that is trying to make it possible to liberate himself from the military industrial complex
why ally with al qaeda and isis why ally with people that sell six-year-old girls in a sex
slavery and kill them why why and they have a leftist pope out of the group that throws gays off
buildings and the left doesn't care they love it they love it and people like cardinal pal and
their pedophilia ring get a lot of their sexual slaves from these migrants that arrive into
europe without any documents children that are put into slavery and under the control of priests
of bishops of cardinals and of course they love it and they actually make even money on top of these
migrants that is of course financed by the EU for each migrant they get a certain amount of money
daily so each priest is each bishop who involves himself with the migrant business is sitting on
gold making a lot of money at the same time is giving himself to deprivations and sexual
activities with these poor slaves of the modern era who are these refugees that of course they
should stay in their countries instead they come here to get and by the way you're so on target here
in the us it was the vatican was caught five years ago with obama every family that comes in they
give it to a liberal catholic family or a liberal family and they get eight thousand dollars a month
for three people in groups of three and then and then they exploit them they make them get jobs and
then take part of their money that's kicked back to the democrats it's slavery and i was reading
about the same thing in europe the the the police will make people house these folks they don't even
get the money but the bureaucrats actually then hold on to the welfare check that's supposedly
going to the migrants they use them and then they grab the little girls and little boys they want
and they disappear there's no record i mean this is just this is like vampires this is unbelievable
with leo zagami look at this irish pressured to house migrants in spare bedrooms vacation homes
that's up at europe wars dot com from dan lineman that ties in with no whites allowed day second
year at evergreen state university that's the opposite of martin luther king this is total
racism info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine introducing pollen block we
have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the 1960s
researchers in france noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experience less seasonal
immune and inflammatory responses they began studying this effect in published trials and
decades later we now have the fruit of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that
helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an
antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity
of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body
go outside and enjoy the air you breathe head to info wars life dot com and grab a pack of our
pollen block chewable tablets fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the
info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life
daily digestive pack today choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true
selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info
wars life dot com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and
scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula
available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full
month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs
in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of
multi vitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin
mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean
that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war
that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
you're listening to the alex jones show
so
stories up on info wars dot com right now
oils it all down those back five years ago defending the republic from enemies foreign
and domestic it's alex jones get daniel story info wars broke news that obama administration armed
isis of syria four years after info wars broke the story fox news lays out how obama slash hillary
armed al-qaeda and created isis out of Benghazi powerful breakdown big article with all the videos
all the history all the cia whistleblowers tosh plum he's got to live in south america right now
in a hidden location because of this and i'm just saying it like it's no big deal
like leo zagami they've grabbed him put him in jail when he was leading in polls being italian
senator i mean this is real and i'm not up here to my horn i mean i'm fighting pedophiles don't
tell me i'm a hero i'm fighting devil worshipers i better be i feel good when i'm doing i feel
close to god people call god fearing what that means is you can feel when god's spirits getting
closer or further away and you feel the holy spirit's close that's where you want to be
to become like a heat-seeking missile
towards fighting evil because that's the reality of it by the way i just got some
really shocking disturbing footage dealing with starbucks that nobody's really seen yet that we're
going to play come up the next segment reviewer discretion advice and roger stone's going to join
me um but we got about nine ten minutes left here with leo zagami of leo zagami dot com
but all those amazing books there you got the floor of the time we have left
this big epic battle are you thinking things are sliding towards traditionalist or just
non-communist or non-globalist getting control of attican or it'll all come out and they're
trying to make this cardinal pelting secret how can this how can the devil pope survive this i mean
there's never been a clearer choice here well we have a situation whereby this pope has been
been uh installed by the left wing mondialist to destroy the christian fate to destroy the last
remains of the catholic fate after the second Vatican council after this pope nothing will be
the same like we said earlier on if he resigns and like he announced makes this office like every
like any other secular office the magic of the papacy will be will end and gradually of course
they want to end the whole of christianity because they want to embrace a one world religion
which is rather different and is based on a more new age sort of approach where you put together
all these faiths and at the same time they use islam as their trojan horses we said other times
on tuesday uh this guy who is the head of the european home affairs commissioner the mitis
avan polpus he basically had the courage to criticize the the upcoming government which is
trying to become a government is not even yet a government saying that italy can't change their
migrant policies it forbid the italy from change and even the president of italy went on record
saying you can't change this and this you can't change the migrant policies you can't change certain
taxes basically we can't change anything italy is a country with no sovereignty and we have elected
some people who can't even do their job so what is the point of electing them this is of course a
dictatorship of the EU which we have to get rid of and it's becoming increasingly dangerous and
of course is backed by the catholic church which is all the way in bed with them wow so what can the
average person on the planet do when you've got this ridiculous anti christian pope as they make
their global push to open the borders up to islam or they're making their move right now
is this a rebuff of the globalist that their little precious fake pope is in trouble
well i like the words that matthew sorbini the italian politician had the courage to
to tell after the interference from europe they said we we don't want unacceptable
interference by unelected officials like donald j trump said here in europe we have unelected
people imposing their own views liberal views and nobody is actually aligning with them because
every single election in the last few months has proven that europeans don't want these liberals to
have control of the whole show so we really need to change things and in america we have donald
j trump who is fighting all this and fighting also the pedophilia and the sexual trafficking
that of course we have also seen in hollywood the recent scandals have proven once and by the way
trump has 10 times the arrest of pedophiles rolling up hollywood sex cults i mean he's been
delivering on this and i got this from insiders i haven't broke this yet but i'll do it now
the whole uh analytic uh chamber's analytic i'm telling you that's all really connected to
eric prince i've been told and they're getting ready and i was told they're getting ready to have
the justice department go after him not not trump's justice department but obamas and that and that
they're getting ready to go after that whole situation uh so this whole thing is just blowing up
also the left wing here in europe is increasingly antisemitic and this is very negative i mean
antisemitic is the most negative thing you can imagine and that's why corbin is losing in great
britain but also here in italy we have a lot of left-wing parties that are becoming more and
more antisemitic uh using the excuse of the latest uh problems that we had after the establishment of
the embers in jerusalem they are increasing their criticism towards not only israel but the jewish
people and i think this is something that we have to immediately stop but it's not counter
the counteracted enough because the left wing politicians i was about to say what is the left
thinking because they'll say that oh if you don't like global government it's secretly racist but
but then you've got germany saying to jews don't wear yamakas they're telling women on you know don't
go out wearing miniskirts at night it's just cater cater cater to the muslims this is joke level
the left has gone completely insane but i guess they have it because it's a unified global plan
to red carpet all these third world populations the muslims everybody where do they expect us to
go i guess just the average liberal will say okay i won't wear a miniskirt the average jew will say
okay i'm not gonna wear a yamaka because i don't want to uh i mean i'm in a yamaka i guess is the
whole thing with the candles whatever the little thing they wear on their head i mean this is
ridiculous yes sure well it is ridiculous but you have to understand that netanyahu is under
attack by liberal forces in israel that side with rotscheid with george soros and that are ready to
overthrow the netanyahu with when his time in his time especially his mission is gonna be
considered concluded then they will go on to something else we have to understand that there
is liberal forces within israel that are siding with the clinton's the obama the george soros
and those forces are the most negative forces of Zionism not the ones that have established a state
that in the end has guaranteed the anyway a civilization and in a way of life that is unprecedented
in that part of the world and we have to admit that in that part of the world every other state
is still in the hands of barbarians who are making women secondary citizens what was about to say
is when does the left roll out the red carpet and have linda sort sir leave their events and then
israel's this little tiny country and you read the soros documents he wants to overthrow it
and he's got a bunch of the jews in israel actually for it i mean it's suicidal these people are crazy
they're crazy but with the support of pope francis and with the support of the vatican they
really getting ready for june when they will meet up in geneva with the world council of
religions and establish the guideline for the one world religions these people are really
following a plan and of course after that we might see finally the resignation of this post as we
have anticipated that's a pretty global crisis just like the rockelfeller's help start world war
two they admitted to start to heal in a global crisis for a global solution and you're saying
that's what they're pushing well they're pushing towards substituting the un with a world council
of religions that of course will then deal in a very different way that we are used nowadays
where secular county where secular powers are dealing with each other imagine if
suddenly the people in power are all religious fanatics and each representing their own faction
exactly so they're doing the opposite of america separation church and state they're making their
move they know the muslims are going to be three billion people soon they can out vote they're
going to trick us into this ecumenical ecumenical global ruling system as they've said and then
they've got us and the Vatican is ready to change sides because they have already trained the jesuits
to islam and they have infiltrated and collaborated with muslim leaders like fethullah gul and that's
why godland churches and others are getting rid of the crosses and bringing the muslims in you
can see the total double cross unbelievable leo zegami you're so on target leo zegami.com
thanks for all the time today and please join us again soon thank you for having me on my next
wow man that it's just because i researched this stuff constantly that guy is so on and this is
so incredible we're gonna be right back with roger stone we're having to blur out this footage
that happened at a big coffee shop people want in to use the bathroom they got a new thing
where they crap on the floor and like throw the poop at the person making coffee and hey if you
don't put it in the coffee and drink it you're racist so that's coming up will starbucks serve poop
next guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis
natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial
with info wars life select storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any
emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no
better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great
for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you
and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select storable foods
i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it
any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com i want to thank
everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with
high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best
mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life
dot com or triple a 253 3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america
stands with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's
who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your
support you're listening to the alex jones show live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide
it's alex jones you know i remember when i was about 10 years old listening to mpr and they were
playing political speeches by white supremacists criticizing it and they were cussing and i said
mom how are they cussing on mpr in dallas and she said son that's documentary and when i took some
rtf they talked that that's why pbs during the family hour if it's deemed as historic and what
was really said not as profane it's played now they've got stuff on tv now sex acts cussing
everything else that goes on on mainline broadcast tv and nobody complains about that but the left
if we show a live street view and somebody flips somebody off they they file complaints even though
the nfl can do it nobody gets in trouble this is not intentional but here on air now i'm going to
play this unblurred out because this is what democrats do and this just happened and this is
played on the province dot com up in british columbia british columbia then we're gonna break
him up with roger stone this is what's going on woman detained after feces fleaming okay i can't
read this headline woman detained after feces flinging incident at lainley tim hortons that's
like their starbucks so headline the starbucks of canada faces feces flinging woman and she comes
in and says can i use the bathroom i don't think she looks black or hispanic so it's like a white
lady who was that white woman thought she was black what was her name
rachel dullesall so you've got this rachel dullesall type lady she walks in she says can
i use your bathroom they go no one thing i like about starbucks and i never really go there is
they do have the door locked you got to get a key so the bathroom isn't looking like someone ate you
know 85 buckets of beef and beans and then went in there and spewed projectile diarrhea all over
the wall and that is the thing about starbucks their bathrooms are okay this woman walks in
to sjw virtue signal and they say no you can't use the bathroom so she squats the viewer discretion
advised she squats she uses the bathroom and then throws it in an assault against the person behind
the counter now the head of starbucks has said that he's going to let everybody use their bathroom
for free well that's one more reason not to go to starbucks let me assure you so yeah this is
looks like a white woman to me the perfect sjw crazy person who wants to virtue signal
by squatting and crapping on the ground this is like a poll watches compared liberals to like
toddlers throwing fits well let me tell you only the worst toddlers and of course monkeys at the zoo
throw crap at you so we're going to roll this viewer discretion advice is documentary format
we're going to show you the leftist right here what's obscene as we put up these people
let's roll it right now no no no no roll it we're going to roll it right now
so she starts yelling at them there's no audio she grabs some napkins she's not about to touch
it herself she does this and then throws it at him ladies and gentlemen there's a white lady
there you go and then throws it at him now there you go and that's what they want starbucks everywhere
else to do is just let crazy people come in and and do whatever they do in your bathrooms go shoot
heroin up i'm saying she's doing it but they do it junkies use bathrooms everybody knows that
homeless use them and i can't tell you how many times want to swim in barton springs
and i'd go swim a mile and it'd be seven a.m when i was done i'd walk in and try to use their
bathroom and there'd be homeless and they're shooting up and diary everywhere and i would just
leave and you know drive home that's what goes on that's what happens here this is the mental illness
so this woman has just virtue signals that you know you're going to let her use the bathroom
without buying something or she should have just said you know let me have it but no she comes in
reportedly and says can i use the bathroom for free no she's heard about this in the news well
she goes i'm going to virtue signal right now i'm going to take a big old dump on the ground
and then i'm going to throw it at you that's how the liberals do it today in america this has been
aired for documentary purposes so we could see what a deranged leftist looks like and i guarantee
when they find out who she is she is a liberal i'm so excited the new product at info warslife.com
in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red
bill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy
does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly i just went off what i saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people
a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula working with
some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules and ladies and
gentlemen you add the preglinone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body
has to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now available
at info wars store.com and your purchase fugs the operation
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
well roger stone takes over ladies and gentlemen and he's got big as in capital b i g news
mewler is in trouble mewler is cornered mewler has been caught engaging in all sorts of crimes
his own connections to russian oligarchs sure we told you that two years ago but now it's in the
hill the new york times what's he gonna do what's he gonna do when reality comes for him
and as it closes in well roger stone who mewler said weeks ago was the main focus now his main
hope of finding a russian in the wood pile roger give us the big breaking news well alex at least
three major news outlets have informed me that uh the special counsel robert mewler has dropped
subpoenas on my employees my associates and uh and some of my vendors for both documents uh and
potentially testimony before the grand jury at least one of my employees is under heavy physical
surveillance very clearly the special counsel is now in my email reading my text messages
monitoring my phone calls uh this is uh uh this is not an investigation this is an
inquisition as i have said many many times i have no evidence nor knowledge of any effort
to collude conspire or coordinate with the russian state this is a manifestation of the witch hunt
uh all i can do alex is urge all of those people to testify honestly virtually none of them have
any knowledge of my activities in the 2016 uh presidential campaign but this is an effort
as you know to destroy me and to bankrupt me uh this is going to be an expensive uh brutal
fight but i am innocent of any uh collusion with the russians and that as you know includes uh
receiving anything from wiki leaks and passing anything on yeah they don't care they just want
to harass your crew they just want to shut you down which in a way is a rearguard action for us
because the public worldwide is waking up the globalism nationalism is exploding the big corrupt
popes set to resign this deputy caught running hundreds of kidnapped children uh trumps rolling
up the pedophile rings the country's coming back i'm kind of proud we're under attack it's not fun
for our families or our crew but the fact that they think getting us will stop their collapse
when i was reading this week cnn's ratings are down 30 in one month roger i mean the fact that they
are whistling from the grave at us having a picnic in the park next door and they think you know
uh getting in our business will make us back off we're not the little sell out minions uh you
know that that that sing to their tune we at a cold-blooded level let's admit it roger we kind
of like this well i'm i'm definitely ready to fight but it shows you how desperate the special
council is to find some russian collusion he is after a year and millions of guys i know where
he can find it i know where he can find it with his big old ugly ass head if he looks in a freaking
mirror well he's like a big old trader to this country right there big old sack of crap right
there named robert mewler or he could go uh and knock on the door of hillary clinton there's 153
pardon me 145 million dollars worth of russian collusion there and the money she took from
him he's on tar match he's in business with the very russian oligarch he claimed trap was it's
the most made up malarkey from that goon i've ever seen well it is um look this is not fun to
have everybody poking through your emails your text messages your phone calls it's a massive
violation of my fourth amendment rights and my right to privacy with no probable cause because
i am guilty of no crime uh it's an extraordinary almost kafka-esque experience because he's scared
because he knows he's the one going to prison god i can't wait to see him in an orange jumpsuit
well from your mouth to god's ear you look like a really like a defrock buzzard a little orange
jumpsuit with that big old ugly you know uh acromegaly head up there all pendulous i bet he's
gonna crap his britches and whatever he's being led into that super max prison well we all should
pray to god that robert meuller is sent to a super max prison uh we are we are in an epic
struggle here uh the president needs to wake up to the fact that mr meuller has uh the president
of the united states in his sights i am just collateral damage in their attempt to destroy me
why they're just hoping like with the whole stormy daniels thing and that ferret of the
lawyer she has to find something and they can't so they all leak it through hillary and all the
rest of them through through them all this made up crap these are death throws my friend
they're hoping to find you with a crooked toenail well but let's be very clear an important part of
their strategy is closing down our voice here at info wars they want to be sure that there's no forum
in which i can defend myself oh yeah they don't want to respond suddenly they've you know interviews
have dried up explain that to people and this big facebook document you sent us two days ago
that we finally covered where they say by the 24th will be off the air very cryptic yeah it is
extraordinary uh right now on facebook you had the ability to uh when you when you posted a paid
promotion to reach supporters and followers of alex jones info wars prison planet and so on
as of the 24th you can no longer reach those important targets this is a crippling for a
number of conservative republican candidates around the country who are utilizing this service it has
been harmful to me in my book sales for my new book stones rules uh this past year you try to sell a
book in america you call me that's good liberals are out of shut your ass up well and then this
past week i was scheduled uh to be on uh inderson cooper's show with uh john berman uh that cancelled
at the last minute then i was scheduled on saturday to be on uh with mike smirkhanich to talk about
my book that was also cancelled so i guess my performance with chris komo uh a new day my
performance with andrew mitchell too good on msnbc were a little too good a little too good well
let's do this your book that is amazing is available at info wars store dot com right now
we'll ship it to you within a day get in the order it's available it's great but you're
supporting somebody under total attack that they've demonized have lied about we've got other big
specials at info wars store dot com and you know look all i can do is stand up to me were kissing
his evil butt isn't gonna help us and hillary and all of them i mean they are all complete jokes
and i just can't believe the cowardice in congress the cowardice at the justice department
but more and more there's some good people in congress say this is a criminal conspiracy
it's all a lie they want contempt charges on sessions uh muller all the rest of it so in the
end of the day i know they're going to be destroyed now they may get us is hors d'oeuvres you know
like they're driving a truck over the edge of a cliff and we're kind of a a bush at the bottom
of the cliff but they're going to be smashed along with us in the end or kind of like a better analogy
is what happened in moby dick you know the old allegory the old art type and you've got you've
got uh old captain a have and his lust for war with the great white whale he may they may jump on
our back and plunge that into our old blubber but when we take that deep dive who they're never
going to be coming back up politically my friend so i think it's kind of like that well we shall see
alex coming up i have frank parlato the publisher of art voice who will speak extensively about the
takedown of the nexium sex cult and the role i played as a source for him in the takedown of
this egregious cult hey you have seen gregory peck in uh moby dick right where he's all wound up
with the tackle absolutely and he's looking at well eyes looking at him and he's sitting there
trying to and that well goes you know i think i'm gonna go underwater i'm gonna you're trying to
drag you're trying to drive this big spear into me this harpoon yeah i'm starting to feel that
get close to my heart how about we just go down about a thousand feet and see how you like this
and and that's the whole thing they don't they're so arrogant they don't get they're gonna lose my
friend well um well there's an epic struggle ahead one that we will win of that i have every
confidence but maybe in the campaign they see us like captain ahab and they're the white whale
what do you think now i think they're the white whale actually i don't know man the white well
is cooler than captain ahab we're not gonna let bueller be captain ahab are we here are we letting
me moby dick you're probably right well we'll see it's a it's a point of contention now we'll be right
back stay with us healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance
plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty health
share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with
like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor
learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
order today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat bacon.com heart disease is on the rise
clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation
and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here
how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america my
and blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how
much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body
extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two-month supply today
by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life
help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps
you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting edge
formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic
acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum
prebiotic effect head to info wars life.com or call 1-888-253-3139
I can arizona you're on the air worldwide go ahead oh alex you can rent any day of the week thank
you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save america and encouraging
us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time info wars listener
i want to say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like to say thanks
for the anthroplex thank you i use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who
aren't big normal toothpaste fans of super blue is awesome and thank you so much alex for the
info wars life products they are quality i can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for
doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely because then we could all as educated patriots
help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we
can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves we can take our country back
you're listening to the alex jones show
discover trends and global developments years before they happen right here
on the alex jones show and now your host roger stone welcome back i'm roger stone and you're on the
alex jones show i have noticed on q anon an enormous amount of disinformation and we have
mobi dick going on here this is terrific we gotta figure out who's who in this epic struggle
between robert muller and the forces of freedom between those who would undo the results of the
last election and those who believe in a constitutional government and the legitimacy
of the trump presidency in any event i have noticed on q anon recently an enormous amount
of disinformation regarding the the recently exposed sex cult nexium and a huge amount of
disinformation regarding my uh relationship with them i served as a consultant lobbyist for them
for two months but to clarify that situation uh joining me now is the crusading journalist
who busted the nexium cult sex cult wide open leading to the arrest of these pedophiles frank
parlato the publisher of art voice joins us now by phone frank's welcome to the alex jones show
thank you roger it's a pleasure to be here uh so would you clarify uh since you were there and
worked briefly as a public relations man for the for the nexium self-help program which morphed into
a an abusive sex cult exactly what happened here and tell people to clarify this what my actual
role was well i was the publisher the publicist rather at the time that you were involved in
fact you were just getting out of your lobbyist relationship with um nexium as i was getting
in and i recall clearly at the time that you had quit this group that you never remember of but
merely a consultant because you thought that there was some um untoward and possibly inappropriate
behaviors on the part of the cult leader keith reneering so well i'm here to say unequivocally
that you were never a member and uh you you quit up to a pretty short tenure and after i was in there
you would call me as you recall frequently to tell me that the leader of the cult was a charlatan
well and i urged you as you know i urged you to get out now i stress that in my brief uh uh
uh to my brief association with this group i never saw any evidence that they were a sex
cult or that they were abusing uh women or girls what i did sense was financial impropriety they
appeared to be latching on to wealthy young women in many cases uh uh trust fund babies
uh and sucking up their money this made me exceedingly uncomfortable it's the reason i quit they
specifically wanted my assistance uh to secure the criminal indictment of a woman who had run a
foul of the organization i explained to them that i'm not an attorney you can't purchase a criminal
indictment they needed a lawyer to pursue that not a lobbyist they really had no understanding of
the of the levels of government uh i also am proud to say that i was a source for you in your epic
takedown of the cult uh and i think it's important that people not be allowed to go online uh and
smear me as being part and parcel of something that i had no part of and never witnessed as you
explained it to me uh the the sexual abuse comes much later that's absolutely correct roger and i
think it's very important to put on the record for anyone that's interested in knowing the actual
truth relative to this cult that you not only were not a member of the cult but you had a positive
definitive role in taking this cult down i'm delighted to have that i'm delighted to have
that on the record because many people who are detractors of either mine or info wars
have tried to allege elsewhere otherwise i urge people who want the actual detail to go to this
terrific article on the art voice roger stone had role in taking the nexium cult down and i was never
a member of this cult i'm tired of the smears i'm tired of the innuendo i was first in and first
out uh i became exceedingly uncomfortable uh but all i really saw was a substantial group of well
healed middle-aged women taking this self-esteem course uh which i refused to take but audited one
afternoon months much to the consternation of the cult leaders i also um was around when they lost
millions of dollars uh in a commodities trade i think it was corn futures uh of their of their uh
some of their financial supporters money which they then insisted was not the result of a bad
investment by keith reneery but the result of some kind of um skull dungery on the part of the
market uh which of course was an absurdity that one could manipulate the commodities market
against them uh i i believe frank that there are more arrests in the offing and according to today's
new york post um reneery and his cohorts are about to be charged additionally with human trafficking
yeah i think that's true and i think the record should appropriately show that you were the first
guy to say this is a crooked cult and you you were the first guy certainly for me who told me
that reneery was a charlatan and the record shows also that i'm the one that broke the stories
that ultimately led to their arrest so i think you deserve a great deal of credit
for busting up this human trafficking cult you know despite the fact that it wasn't human
trafficking as far as we know back when you were there it evolved into that and i think more people
had heeded your voice at the time maybe some of this human trafficking might have been presented
all right thank you very much frank prolato thanks for calling in and helping us clarify that uh i
feel much better now because i'm tired of the disinformation that exists out there i'm roger
stone you're at on the alex jones show i do want to remind you that we are brought to you only
through the generosity of our listeners and our viewers in your loyal patronage at the info wars
dot com store you can go there now and by among other things my new book stones rules which is
my guide on how to win at politics business and style and while you're at it you might want to
consider sending a generous contribution to info wars we are fighting a war against censorship
that is very expensive beating back these baseless frivolous lawsuits that are designed
for big splashy negative headlines we need your help i'm roger stone and i'll be right back
were you born before the year 1956 if so did you know you could be collecting between
five hundred seventy five and twenty two hundred dollars in tax free income right now all thanks to
the fha or what about this did you know 54 us congressmen have used a special tax free account
to earn up to 35 times more on their money it's true and you can do it too these are just two
of the secrets revealed inside a stunning new book from the palm beach research group and ted
benna the man behind the 401k you'll discover the 18 best cash cows that can help you earn up to an
extra 6800 dollars a month just go to 501k book dot com right now if you're at or near retirement
this book is a must read you can get your own free copy shipping and handling charges apply
just go to 501k book dot com right now while there are still copies left that's 501k book dot com
501k book dot com just go to 501k book dot com right now staying healthy on the go is just as
important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info
war's life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune
gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect
for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral
cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins
with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a
powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy
and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com we've taken thousands of
years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find
the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why
i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled
with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it
supports the info war it is a classical 360 when this is the formula that i personally have been
taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a
detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it
to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as
focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info
wars life dot com fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life
daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive
there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20
of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help
you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in
tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try
flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to
fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
you're listening to the alex jones show
my fellow americans let me make this perfectly clear you're listening to roger stone on info wars
hi i'm michael williams and boy do we have some exciting news to you we have our bus tour ready
to go but it's not going to be one of those pansy political bus tours we've got the deportation bus
that's right you heard me the michael williams deportation bus you want to find out where we're
coming go to deportationbus.com we're going to implement my 287g deportation plan that's going
to fill this bus with illegals to send them back to where they came from we're not just going to
track them watch them roam around our state we're going to put them on this bus and send them home
go to deportationbus.com and find out where we're going to be see you there
senator michael williams of georgia whose campaign for governor is surging because of the strong
stand he is taking against sanctuary cities and is currently on his deportation bus tour
joins us now by phone besieged i am told by demonstrators senator williams welcome to the
alex joneshow thank you alex joneshow roger i'm sorry thanks for allowing me on the alex joneshow
it's a pleasure to be here and you're absolutely correct we are on our second stop
indicator it's the one of the sanctuary cities that we wanted to to highlight in georgia let
people know that we do have sanctuary cities in georgia and the protesters that are here
they are basically throwing their bodies in front of our our vehicles not allowing us to
to move the police are here trying to uh make i guess to make way for us but yeah they've uh
they they've made a big issue about this and we also believe that the many of them are a part of
antifa we've had some uh death threats come from them i know that they're they posted all the places
that we're going to be on this trip so uh it's it's uh it's pretty exciting right now well i give
you enormous credit for taking a strong stand of how do you feel your campaign is going versus
lieutenant governor country club kegel we are incredibly excited about our campaign one of
things that people that have been following our campaign know is that we are a fearless conservative
not just because of of what we're doing with the the deportation bus tour but there's been
several other things that we have done uh we protested a teacher that kicked out two of our students
for wearing a make a great great again shirt now we're we're out there taking a stand for
those people that love our country love our constitution and are tired of seeing it desecrated
and uh and invaded by illegals well i also know that you have been in the forefront of standing
up for the national rifle association there in the state of georgia no exactly exactly whenever
nancy polosi was out there trying to ban bump stocks we said no no no nancy you're not going
to ban bump stocks in fact we are going to give away a bump stock we raffled off a bump stock to
one of our supporters and again just in defiance i've been out there talking about protecting
and defending our second movement rights for constitutional carry we need that here in georgia
because there is a big push by the left by the progressives that are trying to take away our
guns and we need elected officials that are actually going to stand up and fight against
those that want to be our must but in the in the interest of full disclosure let me say that while
i have traveled to georgia and personally endorse mike williams campaign for governor
i have no professional relationship with his campaign i am just proud to be a supporter
mike williams was one of dylan trump's original supporters in the state of georgia uh when in the
peach state country club kegel was supporting jeb bush the battle lines are drawn mike williams
is a solid liberty committed conservative uh and a strong supporter of the president vice
and he is running against the lily livered country club moderate republicans as represented by
country club kegel the lieutenant governor senator williams thank you for joining us
here on the on the alex joneshow when is the primary uh and uh what how do people contact
your campaign to make a contribution or to volunteer yeah well early voting is going on right now it
goes on from now until friday and then the election day is may 22nd so next tuesday at six days away
and anybody that feels like they want a fearless conservative will stand with president trump on a
lot of the the tough issues out there visit our campaign page it's williams georgia all spelled
out williams georgia dot com you can sign up to volunteer you can sign up to donate again like you
said we are up against the the the powerful establishment there's four other candidates
that are all being funded by the same special interest the lobbyists uh the the the super
country club elite types that are are up there trying to take this election from us so we need
we know all your help so uh share with your friends and let's get out there and vote when
this thing for president trump great thank you very much senator michael williams again
that republican primary may 22nd but early voting going on now a crusading dependable
conservative a man with brass cahones who is leading the fight for deportation of illegals
and shutting down the sanctuary cities in his home state of georgia i thank you for joining us
folks uh we're able to bring you this kind of uh on the scene cutting edge news only because of your
loyal support for info wars at the info wars store we face the greatest challenges in our history
here at info wars a string of frivolous harassment lawsuits designed to generate big splashy
headlines that are then used to smear alex jones to smear info wars to smear david knight and smear
oh and shroyer and the entire line of reporters here uh this is an insidious organized campaign
by the tech left to take those headlines and then utilize them as the rationale to take us
off of youtube to limit our reach at facebook we learned only this week uh through the uh
mike williams campaign in fact that uh as of the 24th you could no longer target uh for reach
supporters of alex jones or info wars this is meant to cripple us and cripple the dependable
conservatives who want to reach the info wars audience so please now folks go to the info wars
store and look at some of our terrific nutraceuticals uh the uh the bodies which is the very best
turmeric formula uh for body soreness after exercise for joint and flexibility for mobility
to boost immunity this is the best turmeric uh formula you can buy it is now at 50 off
my all-time favorite uh which goes without saying brain force plus brain force plus uh it might as
well be the sponsor of this hour of the alex jones show after spending many hours fighting uh
robert moeller and the special counsel uh probably robert moeller the special counsel
and the fake news media who in the next 24 hours will mount an enormous smear on me none of which
this would be possible without the benefits of brain force plus pop two of these babies and you get
almost immediate mental energy and clarity and a whole new wave of mental energy to take on
the globalists and the hard left now on special at uh 29 95 that's 10 bucks off this terrific
product you will thank me you will thank him for wars and at the same time you will be boosting the
fight for freedom and the fight for the first amendment we here have faced a struggle as we
have never faced they are kneecapping us on facebook they are kneecapping us on youtube
they are seeking to wipe us off the face of the internet uh entirely we cannot let this happen
we are the tip of the spear you are the resistance we need your support as never before i know i
speak for alex jones and everyone here at info wars when i tell you how much we appreciate your
loyal support and your patronage for the products at the info wars dot com store i'm roger stone
and i will be right back frank in north carolina thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah i just
have to say something man it seems like every time i turn on your broadcast your bracket it just gets
old man i'm gonna shut you down right now okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you
understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand i'm
ringing the alarm if that was happening to anybody else i'd be freaked out i mean what's it gonna
take us being shut down is that what you want frank you know what alex put him on pause again
hey frank do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under
attack we need your help as much begging as i do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face
of this i'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards you understand i
need your help frank i need your help frank go to info wars store dot com right now and help fund
the info do you understand i need your help frank free press needs your help frank info wars life
and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a
revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every
batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens
simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result
of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years
but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product
in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does
vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something
the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139 guaranteeing
your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even
simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select
storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks
and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better place to look for
healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and
a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select storable food will
help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour
kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be
caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for
an affordable price with info wars life select storable foods years ago info wars life created
the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins
were pumped into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to
help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique
natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms
there's no better product to help your body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy
microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal
yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients
including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled
by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a
bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
news analysis reports it's the alex jones show and now your host roger stone
welcome back to the alex jones show i'm your host roger stone well sure as rain roiders
just minutes ago broke a story regarding a social media consultant jason sullivan
who worked for me for two months during the 2016 campaign mr sullivan received a subpoena from
robert moeller the special counsel for both documents and for potentially an appearance
before the grand jury i find this very curious i terminated my relationship with mr sullivan
who's a nice enough fellow after his social media program did not achieve the results we had hoped
for it is notable however that in his role as a vendor he had complete and total access
to my twitter feed anything that is of interest in my twitter feed and particularly the twitter
direct messages was turned over to the house intelligence committee months ago those looking
for a smoking gun will not find one as i have said numerous times i had no advanced knowledge
of the content source or the exact timing of the wiki leaks disclosures regarding the democratic
national committee and hillary clinton this entire charade is meant to distract us from the fact
that the deep state the obama justice department the obama fbi was involved in the fabrication
of phony dossiers which were then used as the rationale for the wholesale unconstitutional
surveillance of the campaign of the republican candidate for president we all also now know
definitively based on the uh the uh testimony of uh glenn simpson of fusion gps uh and of mr
steele that the fbi infiltrated and had a mole inside of donald trump's campaign how do we
justify having one of our major law enforcement organizations spying on the republican candidate
for president i can only assume that in their subpoena for mr sullivan they are seeking
some evidence of russian collusion as i indicated earlier on the show others among my associates
have been contacted by the special counsel's office all i can do is urge all of them to testify
completely and truthfully there is no evidence of russian collusion coordination uh or conspiracy
with the russian state i received nothing from wiki leaks or anyone else including the russians
therefore i passed nothing including allegedly hacked emails uh to donald trump or the trump
campaign this is a left wing conspiracy theory a left wing conspiracy theory that is the basis for
two uh totally frivolous lawsuits against me one of those two lawsuits will actually be have a hearing
tomorrow at 130 at the u.s district courthouse in washington dc where my lawyers will move
for dismissal of this phony lawsuit uh the purpose of this lawsuit is to claim that after wiki leaks
published the material that was allegedly hacked from the dnc that i reported on it here at info
wars and elsewhere and therefore i have violated the privacy rights of those who were identified
in the completely accurate material so i'm not being accused i'm not being accused of of hate
speech or fake speech i'm being accused of speech of engaging in my first amendment rights based
on the facts this is the kind of harassment lawsuit that you also see here at info wars where
alice jones is being sued repeatedly uh by uh by uh the globalists and others who seek to use these
lawsuits as a club to silence us to embarrass us to silence us through negative uh television
and newspaper stories and then use those stories as the rationale to remove us entirely
from the info from the uh internet don't let that happen folks that is exactly what they have in
mind uh i urge the members of the mainstream press to cover this hearing at 1 30 tomorrow
in room 32 a of the u.s district court building in dc where my attorneys will make the case
for dismissal this is what we call lawfare it is an outrageous abuse of our legal system
uh this is almost egregious as egregious as the democratic national committee lawsuit
where donald trump the trump campaign uh donald trump jr julian assange info wars pardon me
wiki leaks and others are being sued again in a frivolous lawsuit that claims that we worked
with the russian state to hack the dnc and then forward that information from info wars as unprovable
in a court of law as it is in the court of public opinion it is a left-wing conspiracy theory it is
a crap pot version of what they think may have happened it's extraordinary that in this lawsuit
they have no evidence or proof hoping that they will find evidence somewhere if they survive
summary judgment in discovery that is an outrageous abuse of our legal system but i must tell you
the cost of this for myself and my family is extraordinary i have lost clients over this
uh and uh we face uh ultimately a monumental cost so i ask you to visit the stone defense fund dot
com stone defense fund dot com uh and consider a contribution there as well as going to the info
war site and making a contribution at info wars for their epic financial fight uh that that is
entailed there you have it the stone legal defense fund dot com my children will thank you my grandchildren
will thank you my wife will thank you even my dogs will thank you we face bankruptcy thanks to these
deep pocketed leftists who seek to destroy us now i have to not only fight these lawsuits i have to
fight an inquisition by the special counsel who wants to make two and two add up to six i have no
involvement in russian collusion for the final time and this as the president says is a witch hunt
now you can do me a special favor by going to the info wars dot com store and getting your copy
of my new book stones rules uh this can be shipped to you literally overnight it's the fastest place
to get it at the info wars dot com store this is my uh rules for the road this is my operating manual
everything i have learned in 40 years in american politics but it's not just about politics it's about
advertising marketing public relations food automobiles movies and above all style uh if you're
going to fight the globalist you might as be well dressed while you are doing it you can again get my
terrific book stones rules at the info wars dot com store it's the fastest place to get it we can
literally get it to you virtually overnight please order your copy today and while you're on the site
consider a contribution to info wars we we face a struggle as never before and for the first time
we're asking people to consider if you're not in the mood for one of our great nutraceuticals or
one of our t-shirts or my book but you want to help the fight for freedom you can go to the info
wars dot com store there's a button for a contribution twenty five dollars fifty dollars a hundred
dollars yes some info warriors have given as much as five hundred or a thousand dollars god will
bless you for your bountiful contribution and alex jones and the crew at info wars will put it
to good use i'm roger stone i thank you for joining me here on the alex jones show this is a
time of enormous crisis and enormous opportunity make no mistake about it the deep state has every
intention of trying to undo the results of the last election the ultimate target is not roger stone
or alex jones or info wars the ultimate target is donald j trump uh an american with a reform
agenda that scares the crap out of the globalists and those who want one world government thank
you so much for joining me here on the alex jones show god bless you and we will see you at the
war room
western europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down
over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays you'll get six
months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk
cnn and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has
a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear we have to say we are the most hated news
source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com
or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in full wars
life it take hours michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation
in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids
so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver
and iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you
can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without
you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering
that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake it's so essential
to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
