If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are live. We are broadcasting worldwide from Austin, Texas.
Our crew is already on the road to South Texas, just south of Houston, just north of Galveston, Texas.
We're now at least 10 people are dead, including students and reportedly faculty and one wounded, perhaps dead police officer.
We're getting conflicting reports. Obviously our prayers go out to everybody.
This is a gigantic, sprawling high school in a suburb of Houston.
And of course you've got rescue helicopters, you name it there. This has really, really turned out to be a terrible event about two hours ago when it first started.
I was watching Fox and they weren't even sure anyone had been injured for a good 30 minutes, so they cut away from coverage.
But I talked to Pat Riley, who works with us. He's got family in the town. In fact, he's got family that works in association with the school.
And he was saying that it was a school shooting. And so I jumped right on that immediately.
And by then it was two dead, four dead, six dead, eight dead, 10 dead and growing a true tragedy.
And you know the gun grabbers are going to seize on this. They're going to blame all gun owners in America.
They're going to misrepresent what we say about it. We know that the coward of Broward County, the head school resources officer,
he just retired officially and began receiving $8,000 plus a month.
We saw a stand down in Sandy Hook as well. Was there a stand down here? Doesn't sound like it. One officer is down.
But report there's only a couple of school resource officers for this gigantic 5a sprawling school, one of the biggest in the state of Texas in a bedroom community of Houston.
Again, coward deputy who stayed outside during Parkland school shooting.
New York Daily News reports receives $8,700 a month pension. Unbelievable.
Now, our hearts go out to those that are wounded and those that are dead and their families. But remember, 10,000 plus die a year in swimming pools.
Tens of thousands die falling down on wet pavement or in their bathrooms.
56 people on average. If you average the numbers out from 1990 to now, and the numbers about flat, still too many, but the numbers still flat.
Less than 60 people die in school shootings, period, every year. It's a terrible thing.
But the way the media seizes on it and the issues of the kids with their hands up and the hours of waiting and not knowing what's going on, it tears the guts out of a parent.
I know I've got four children and it just makes me know that despite the fact there's some pretty good public schools in some areas of this country,
I would not send my children to public school because this is where the media advertises that you go kill people if you want to have death by cop.
Or if you want to go out and be infamous, then they hype it and turn it into the number one issue in the world.
And of course, there's going to be copycatch. You know, during the 60s and 70s, there were over 500 bombings in this country.
But the media didn't give them attention. They covered them but didn't harp on them because it gave the terrorists the power that they wanted to terrorize.
You're going to see the marches. You're going to see it right through as school closes.
I felt like we were running towards a finish line. I've set this on air just this week for no school shootings in the last few weeks of school.
And yet it's happened again. Now, statistically, your children are pretty safe in public schools from mass shootings.
50-something a year. It's too many. But if you take a country of 330 million people, and what? Are there something like 50 million people in school or more?
50-something out of 50-something million, that's one person out of a million in schools is going to get killed.
And it's too many. But the whole way the media hypes it like, never one more dead person.
We can't ever have that happen again. So when there's another school shooting, they go, see? All you gun owners are to blame.
There are even more people dying or you're getting stabbed to death at schools, but the media doesn't cover it.
Now, when we get back, Pelosi has made a sickening statement. Wait till you see this.
There's a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, a couple hours ago, I was sitting there getting ready for the broadcast at home, had Fox News on,
was on the Drudge Report, was on Info Wars, and I saw the Fox News anchors cutting away from the news of a school shooting because they couldn't confirm it had even happened.
Well, I began to make some phone calls and checked local news, and it shows how scripted national news is, CNN, all of them.
It took them over an hour to know what was happening.
Texas news knew right away that there were multiple dead people, and now it's up to 10, so it's a real tragedy.
The governor says he's on his way to Santa Fe High School. We'll be brief soon. Press conference at 1 p.m. to provide update.
Owen Schreuer and more of our crew are loading up as we speak. I mean, I've already left. They were loading up about 15 minutes ago to beeline down to the coast, almost to the coast.
In fact, I've driven by this hospital before. Pat Riley's got family from one of our crew members down there. He's also in contact with them.
I am going to open the phones up for people that are in that area of South Texas.
We have a computerized phone system. We can even check the caller ID, and we're going to have any eyewitnesses or people that have any information for us to be able to speak out because we have the same thing with the situation in Parkland.
We had multiple students call in, later confirmed their identities. The media tried to deny it, but later had to confirm they were real, saying that the police stood down.
That is now confirmed. I don't know if that happened here, but we know it happened in all these blue state areas, blue city areas like Sandy Hook.
There was a stand down obviously in Parkland, in Florida. That's all been confirmed.
I don't know if this was a stand down because you have a police officer that was shot. That's not really Texas style to stand down, but Houston and surrounding areas are now blue.
And we don't know if they fully drummed Texas outlaw enforcement in those areas completely, like they've done in LA or Baltimore or areas like Chicago where we know they stand down and are a bunch of cowards on average.
It's just a fact. There are some good police officers still there.
But this ties into something Nancy Pelosi said just last night that is unbelievable.
We're going to get to that in a moment, but first up to 10 fatalities confirmed in Texas school shooting.
Our prayers go out for those that have lost loved ones, those that are injured.
This is very, very serious situation. Obviously, so pray for folks at that South Texas high school.
We will continue to break down the latest as that unfolds, but up to 10 people have been killed at a school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas.
Police confirmed that one person is in custody and a second person has been detained.
A police officer is among those injured. Speaking to reporters, the scene a police spokesman said there had been between eight and 10 fatalities, including and I was watching the satellite feeds.
We have live for you and live you indeed said that including students and school staff.
A male student has been confirmed as the shooter.
Images from the scene show the extent of the police presence with students lined up outside the premises.
Now, before we go any further with that, this ties into the whole MS 13 situation.
MS 13 is a central American gang that comes all the way up into Mexico.
It rivals any other Latin American gang for violence and evil.
They're estimated to have killed hundreds of thousands of people in Central America, Mexico and the United States.
They mainly feed on Hispanics and have Trump openly in a video conference that we played yesterday that we have again to play now.
He's asked about MS 13 by some sheriff's department people and Trump says, yeah, they're absolute animals.
I don't think that's a strong enough word. How about monsters who are into a total death cult?
Rivaling people like ISIS and the media cut off the front of him being asked about MS 13 so they could say,
Trump just called all border crossers animals so that people like Spike Lee can go on TV years later and say that, you know, he said all Hispanics are animals.
Everybody goes, yeah, yeah, this is the deception. This is the garbage.
Well, MS 13 has killed thousands and thousands of people in the U.S.
But when they kill somebody, it hardly even makes the news or in some cases,
juries will just let people off and kill people to virtue signal.
Now, AP and others have had to retract because he was clearly referring to MS 13, not saying border crossers are animals.
I saw Juan Williams on Fox News this morning saying that, well, you know, Trump does still mean this and Trump's a bad guy.
They're going to double down, but Nancy Pelosi took the cake because all this ties together.
You've got 10 people dead with some deranged killer probably on serotonin reuptake inhibitors, just like the last shooter in Parkland was.
And he'd been under government custody and he'd been on a crime prevention program because it was racist.
They said to put anybody with a Hispanic last name in jail for burglary, vandalism, death threats, saying he'd school shoot.
He should have been in a mental institution. He'd been in government custody. He'd been in a government facility.
Look for that again, some isolated devil worship or drughead foster care type.
But again, school shootings in the country, only about 56 on average every year die in a mass shooting at a school.
It's still too much. It's still horrible. It's still terrible, even though 10,000 die again in their backyard swimming pools or in the lake.
Thousands die on boats every year crashing into jet skis, but we don't have those blown out of proportion into the world.
They do on guns because it can be blamed on gun owners.
So they don't magnify what MS-13 does or how many cops they kill or all the methamphetamine they dump on the streets,
or all the torturing and murder and devil worship that's what they're involved in as a cult.
There's no coverage of that to speak of, but when there's a school shooting, they magnify it to project guilt on everybody.
So in essence, Nancy Pelosi coming out and saying Trump shouldn't talk bad about MS-13, we're all God's children.
And Juan Williams said the same thing this morning. I saw him on Fox News, what a disgraceful MPR reporter.
By extension, she's saying with shooter that killed tenacious people and the numbers growing as they fight for their lives.
By extension, she's saying that person's God's children and we shouldn't call him an animal or a monster.
The guy that shot these people is worse than an animal. He's a monster and a piece of garbage and probably on government-pushed psychotropic drugs
because almost every other one of them has been. So think about that.
Nancy Pelosi is in essence saying don't call this guy an animal or a monster because she's saying about MS-13
thousands of times worse conservatively than this killer in the aggregate.
She's saying don't talk bad about them and they're all acting sad because the Democratic Party uses MS-13 to kill people.
I have confirmed this with our law enforcement and army sources. I've confirmed it with CIA sources that the Democratic Party uses MS-13
nationwide from Chicago to Dallas, Texas from Austin, Texas to LA.
They use them as their secret army and they know Trump's got a war going against MS-13 and has wiped thousands of them out, arrested thousands more.
Because what else isn't in the news when MS-13 fights back? They're getting smoked by the U.S. military all over this country right now
and this Democrat dirtbags pissed. Her meth-dealing army is in the crosshairs. You dirty old evil globalist whore selling this country out.
You're a pimp. Sorry, not a whore. You use us as whores. Here is the monster pig.
We believe that some of us who are attracted to the political arena, to government and public service, that we're all God's children.
There's a spark of divinity in every person on earth and that we all have to recognize that as we respect the dignity and worth of every person
and as we recognize our responsibilities with that spark of divinity within us.
And so when the President of the United States says about undocumented immigrants, these aren't people. These are animals.
You have to wonder, does he not believe in the spark of divinity?
So he's saying MS-13 is God. There you go. MS-13 is God.
Were you born before the year 1956? If so, did you know you could be collecting between $575 and $2,200 in tax-free income right now?
All thanks to the FHA. Or what about this? Did you know 54 U.S. congressmen have used a special tax-free account to earn up to 35 times more on their money?
It's true and you can do it too. These are just two of the secrets revealed inside a stunning new book from the Palm Beach Research Group and Ted Benna, the man behind the 401K.
You'll discover the 18 best cash cows that can help you earn up to an extra $6,800 a month.
Just go to 501Kbook.com right now. If you're at or near retirement, this book is a must read. You can get your own free copy.
Shipping and handling charges apply. Just go to 501Kbook.com right now while there are still copies left.
That's 501Kbook.com. 501Kbook.com. Just go to 501Kbook.com right now.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor Helping Neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Click 187799 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 187799 BERKEY.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread Liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
They have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
If you buy the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Visit infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
We're in information war, we're using the truth in common sense and logic against the globalist. Nancy Pelosi has come out defending MS-13 saying they're all God's children and that they have a spark of divinity in them, ripping off a line from Mahatma Gandhi.
He said we all have the seed of the universe within us.
That does not mean the seed sprouts, and MS-13 is one of the most vile, vicious, torturing groups that even kills women and children when that's not something that flies in Latin America until they came along.
Torture.
Absolute evil.
Kidnapping.
People's children, they rape 80% of the women that they transport into the United States. They are monsters and they've been caught as the muscle for the Democratic Party and I've had military sources on the air.
I've got sources that have been off air. In fact, I'm going to call some of my sources and I'm going to see if I can actually get them to come on the air.
Some of them have been on the air before but not said who they've worked for.
Yeah, they've been in the Marines, yeah they've been in the Army, but they've also done work since Trump got in in the Central Intelligence Agency dealing with the Democrats and MS-13.
It is a fact they shipped the guns into Mexico to ship the guns into Al Qaeda and ISIS. It's a fact Fast and Furious was about arming MS-13.
All this has come out.
So Paul Watson just had the big article go live on infowars.com. We're in an information war. We need to get our talking points out ahead of theirs.
They're going to say gun owners are to blame. They're going to say the NRA is to blame. They're going to say I'm to blame.
They're going to try to block us on the Internet again like they did a few months ago during the tragic situation in Florida, lying about what we've said and done so that people don't actually hear what we really said.
We're saying they advertise the schools as mass shooting facilities for crazy people.
We're saying in almost every school shooting, I can't find one where it wasn't, a mass shooting where the person wasn't on psychotropic drugs of the Prozac serotonin reuptake inhibitor class.
I can't find a time in recent memory where they weren't in some criminal protection racket like the Promise Program because Cruz had a Hispanic last name.
He was adopted. He wasn't even Hispanic. He was let off for four and a half years threatening to kill people, robbing, stealing, vandalizing and committing crimes reportedly on a monthly basis.
But they would not put him in jail or a mental institution.
Then his foster parents died, both of them in two years. He was reportedly living on the streets or with friends and he was known as school shooter man.
People had been calling 20 plus times, please stop him. He's going to kill. The FBI had been called three times. There was a stand down.
We first had students on that confirmed it. What it's seeing into they told YouTube, take our YouTube channel down that we said nobody died.
So they're going to blame the Second Amendment. They're going to blame Trump, despite the fact that since 1990, the unified crime statistics are clear.
There's an average of 56 people dying and it's flat. 56 people die in school shootings a year. Half of them or so are drug related two or three people getting shot.
The other half are these. What you just saw 14 in Florida. It's over 10 here. Couple others.
School year is about to close out. Will it go above 56? The average probably not. Is it a tragedy? Absolutely.
Are people fighting with their lives? You bet. But swimming pools kill over 10,000 people a year. Look it up.
Swimming pools and lakes. Americans. More than 10,000 fall on wet concrete or wet tile or in their bathrooms. More than that. Gun deaths. 90% of them are suicide.
Did you know that? Look it up. Yeah, there's 15,000 gun deaths a year and 90% of them in a whole country of 330 million people.
You got 15,000 and most of it's suicide.
So the articles on infowars.com, it's incredible. After defending MS-13 murderers that have killed tens of thousands in the U.S. total, left blames NRA for Santa Fe school shooting.
The NRA is a terrorist organization that Democrats can want to say. No, you are a terrorist organization.
You get this article out to everybody and get on the offense. Infowars.com. Newswars.com. Get that article out. My live feed.
We're on hundreds of radio stations and TV stations. Tell folks about the station you're watching or listening to so they get an alternative view of what's happening, which is reality.
Not every gun owner is to blame. Are truck owners to blame when another ISIS person runs over people? It happens every few weeks.
It's hardly in the news. No, the truck's not to blame. The crazed killers to blame. But still, I want to stop this. The schools are advertised as mass shooting zones.
The schools are advertised where crazies go. Why are they always on serotonin reuptake inhibitors? Why are they always in government custody? Why are they always being protected?
Why do the police always stand down unless it's Texas? It appears the police did not stand down here or there would have been 50 dead.
And what happened in Vegas? That was a gun running operation gone bad. We first broke it, now confirmed. Connected to fast and furious.
With Saudi Arabia having a military convention with more than 7,000 people there. Amazing.
Now, the stories on infowars.com, it's critical to get out to everybody. But I want to play this one more time. This is Nancy Pelosi who just joined us.
Yesterday, misrepresenting what Trump said when it was about MS-13. And she's saying these are all God's children. In fact, they're a divine spark of life.
So by extension, if she's saying mass murderers are good, is she saying the killer isn't an animal from this Texas high school?
I say he's worse than an animal. He's a piece of crap, selfish, prozac head, demon-possessed, sack of garbage, and we don't even know who he is yet.
But I'm willing to say the guy that went and killed a bunch of innocent people is a piece of crap.
How dare you Pelosi say MS-13 mass murderers that kill thousands of people a year in the U.S. with guns.
They're a large percentage of the people getting killed, but we don't even know about it because the media covers up for it because we know they work for the Democrats.
They work for this monster pig. Player. Go ahead, player.
We believe that some of us who are attracted to the political arena, to government and public service, that we're all God's children.
There's a spark of divinity in every person on earth, and that we all have to recognize that as we respect the dignity and worth of every person,
and as we recognize our responsibilities with that spark of divinity within us.
And so when the President of the United States says about undocumented immigrants, these aren't people. These are animals.
You have to wonder, does he not believe in the spark of divinity, the dignity and worth of every person?
These are not people. These are animals. The President of the United States.
Every day that you think you've seen it all, along comes another.
My sack of garbage, witch.
Fire your flies, water. Get your bug assault today.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer. Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are. This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Get them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it.
Another product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, a super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering m4store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
You can now look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Selects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you on your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWars Life Selects storeable foods.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones, Jr.
Some of them want to get used by you.
Some of them want to abuse you.
Some of them want to be a-
Well, our hearts and our prayers go out to the at least 10 people dead at Santa Fe High School
between Houston and Galveston, Texas, near the Texas coast.
An area I've driven through many, many times on my way to go fishing or on vacation at the coast.
With my family, I've driven by the big high school,
right there on the side of the highway. It is a gigantic hospital.
And Trump, early on Eastern time, about two hours ago,
said school shooting in Texas, early reports not looking good.
God bless all. He's also made a brief statement on that.
Well, the usual suspects, but from the Democratic Party who love to go around
on demonizing the Second Amendment are out.
And that's the four students picked by the Democratic Party and by the Soros group
to go around and give anti-gun speeches after Parkland and to blame all gun owners
instead of the psychiatric system and the police and the local government and the promise program
that stood down for four and a half years and protected the Parkland shooter, Nicholas Cruz.
So now Trump slammed by Parkland survivors over insensitive tweet about school shooting.
So I thought during the break, I said, well, let me see what this insensitive tweet is.
School shooting in Texas, early reports not looking good. God bless all.
Because as of 10 o'clock Eastern time, as of 10 o'clock Eastern time, an hour and a half
ago, I guess that's two hours ago, they didn't even know that anybody had been killed yet.
We didn't know till about an hour ago. So again, they take everything the president does. That's
incredible. They take everything he does and then they spin it knowing that hours later,
you know, there's 10 dead. And they make it look like, oh my God, he didn't even care about that
because they take an earlier tweet from 10 o'clock Eastern and then put it out hours later
and say, oh, look, he's tone deaf. He didn't talk about the dead.
I was watching television two hours ago. I talked about that when we first went on air
36 minutes ago and I said in the first segment, I was watching and Fox News even cut away because
they weren't even sure anyone had gotten hurt. They said one girl had a bleeding leg.
I shot a live video and said, well, I hope that's right. I hope this isn't a big shooting.
And that's what the president was seeing as well. And I'm not here defending the president.
I'm defending the truth. Just like they have law enforcement say, sir, MS-13's really kill a lot
of people and kill a lot of border agents. We want to really get more funding to deal with them.
He says, absolutely. They're a bunch of animals. They cut the question off.
And the Nancy Pelosi comes out and says they are angels. They are divine. They are God's children.
And that how dare Trump talk bad about MS-13. Now, you can argue I'm doing to her what she did
to Trump because she knew full well as of last night what Trump had really said about that.
And then it was an edited video as usual. So she chose to imply that he was still saying
it about everybody coming across the border. So in essence, she's saying that MS-13 are a
bunch of angels and as pure as a driven snow, even though they're the ones raping and killing
and torturing the people that come across and leaving them locked up in 18 wheelers,
if people don't pay double ransoms, because they're the muscle of the Democratic Party is MS-13.
And I have that from the highest levels.
Well, here's the latest, at least 10 dead at Santa Fe shooting in Texas and possible explosives found.
This out of ABC News.
At least eight people, they're saying dead. Now they're saying 10 after a student allegedly
opened fire at Santa Fe High School in Texas this morning, sending students fleeing for their lives.
Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez said the number of deaths could be anywhere between
eight and 10. Majority being students Gonzalez said the shooting has been contained at the school,
has been evacuated, but possible explosive devices have also been found at the school
and off the campus. The school district set authorities are working to render the devices safe,
the district said.
Now, I'm not saying this is a false flag in that the whole thing was staged and that the
government did it or that Michael Bloomberg get it or George Soros did it.
I'm saying if it turns out the police stood down, like they did in many of these other
blue state areas, and this area of Texas is blue state now, Houston surrounding areas are total
Democrat. If that comes out, or he was on Prozac or he was in some catch and release program for
criminals like the Promise program that Nicholas Cruz was in, then yet again, they let it happen so
they could sit there and shake their finger at the American gun owner and tell that we're all to blame
because that's what happened in Coward County. And the head resource officer who stood down
while it was going on for 15 minutes, he just got his $8,000 plus dollar a month pension.
And the county has defended the Promise program that let Nick Cruz run rampant.
$8,700 pension. But when we come back, I'm going to lay out some other scenarios because this is
perfect timing. We know Vegas was a false flag. We know the globalists have been caught staging
things, winding people up, protecting them before. And who knows what narrative this could be.
When it's an Islamic attack, like San Bernardino, they cover up that it's an Islamic attack.
The truck attack in New York a few months ago. They said that wasn't an Islamic attack. We made it up.
Even though it was admittedly an attack, he screamed Allah Akbar and it's pled guilty to it.
Oh, and they supposedly have the shooter in custody. Should have added that earlier at this
Santa Fe tragic event. So who knows what we're going to find out. But hopefully soon that we've
got live satellite feeds there from the press conferences. We'll be carrying live today.
We'll also, ladies and gentlemen, be on target with our reporters, Owen shroyer and others on
the ground who should be getting there in the next few hours or by the time the war room
starts at three o'clock central today in about three hours and 20 minutes, they should be getting
close down there. Now, I've got a lot of other MS 13 quotes here. This had really blown up the
Democrats face. They didn't know what to do. They were losing approval rating points reportedly every
hour. Some polls, some flash polls show a 10% drop just after they got caught trying to claim
the president called all Hispanics animals when he was calling MS 13 animals. And then just right
on time like the cavalry right towards the end of the school year, another victim disarmament
zone mass shooting and the media will hype the living daylights out of this. Maybe they can get
another mentally deranged person to go copycat. If they work hard, maybe they can. I pray that's
not the case. But I think if you put your children in public schools that aren't armed like some of
these other ones are now, you're insane. By the way, I've looked up the school. This was not a
let the teachers be armed school. So that's an angle we should also be looking at. But make no
mistake. Right now, the talking points are being written. They're being put out to blame the Second
Amendment to blame gun owners. Boulder, Colorado just yesterday or just on Wednesday, two days ago,
banned shimmy automatic rifles in high capacity. So they're coming for our guns. Make no mistake.
But whatever you do, this is an information war. You're listening on local radio station,
watching on local TV, local cable on the internet, on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter,
info wars.com, Ford slash show, our live feeds, share those feeds and say, Hey,
here's live coverage from Texas of what's really going on there.
Alex Jones is breaking it down. See what they don't want you to see.
Tomorrow's news today. We'll find out if there's any anomalies. This may be a straight up mass
shooting, probably be a Prozac head. Didn't get enough attention from mommy and government protection
and some liberal program. But it could be more. We'll be watching.
I'm so excited. The new product at info wars life.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red bill. This is a heart and brain pill,
a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because it's
beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formula working with some scientists and developers non GMO made right
here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglin own to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones
in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at info wars store.com and your purchase
funds the operation. Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why info wars life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce,
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles. Immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for
daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral
cleansing formula. Just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins
with powerful yet simple ingredients. Immune gargle features silver sole nano silver for a
powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy
and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com.
I can Arizona here on the air worldwide. Go ahead. Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you sir for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time info wars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force,
anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex. Thank you. I use the
bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome. And thank you so much Alex for the info wars life products. They are
quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely. Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, l tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness. But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome back. I'm Alex Jones, your host on this sad Friday edition. We've got at least 10 dad at
Santa Fe High School near the Texas coast to south of Houston by Galveston. And we've been
reviewing police scanner tapes and first reports of what started about three and a half hours ago,
about three hours and 15 minutes ago. And it looks like the police responded pretty quickly.
And one officer was shot. We're not sure if he's alive. We're not sure of the condition.
They're saying there is also some teachers that have been shot. The majority of people that were
shot and killed are students. Again, this is the sixth society we live in. School shootings are very
rare, but still 56 people killed in school mass shootings a year on average is bad.
Now, MS 13 killing thousands a year is also bad. Many people they kill are children, but the media
always plays it down. And when Trump calls them animals, they misrepresent it to demonize him.
And Nancy Pelosi comes out and says that they are God's children and have divine souls.
Very, very sick. Will she say of whoever this supposed shooter is who they say they have in
custody? Well, they say that he has this divine soul. Now, they're reportedly looking at explosives
at this individual's home. They reportedly have somebody else in custody. They reportedly also
found what they believe are explosives at the school. So this sounds like Columbine 2.0 from what
we saw 19 years ago. Oh, and Shroyer and some of our crew are high tailing it down to South Texas,
Southeast Texas. As we speak, they should be there by the time the war room kicks off today.
So we'll have a round table of our crew, myself and others in there when he gets there to give us
live coverage on the ground. Now, that said, this appears to not be a stand down, preliminarily,
like we saw in Vegas, like we saw in Parkland, and like we also saw then in some of the other events
around the country. So we will track this as it all unfolds today. I also intend to open the
phones up in the next hour. That's only seven minutes away, specifically for people that are
Santa Fe, Texas students. It's a huge high school who are parents or who are family members or
witnesses that live in the town. Every time we do this, if the rest of the callers won't call,
please, we'll be able to get them on the line. We don't usually activate it. We have a computerized
phone system that can take thousands of calls at a time, but we have caller ID. We'll be able to
know if you're calling from that area code. Also, in the past when we had students on, we made them
send us their IDs. We did this with some of the students we had on during Parkland, and CNN and
Snopes said they were actors that we had brought in. Now, days later, they retracted it and said,
no, those are real students. So they can claim that we've got actors on, but if we even point
out that they've gotten people from the school acting club to be the anti-gun spokespersons,
they then try to have us, quote, kicked off the air. Again, misrepresenting. Didn't say
they were crisis actors. Didn't say that nobody died. We had three local news reports and eyewitnesses
on the show who said there was a police stand down now confirmed. It also came out from our sources
that he had been in a crime prevention program, an anti-racism program, where if you are not white,
you don't go to jail for committing crimes most times. He was part of the promise program.
And by the way, he was white, but he was adopted by a lady that had the last name Cruz.
Now there it is, Sun Sentinel. School program allowed people like Cruz to commit crimes and not
get in trouble. Truly is unbelievable. They say it. They don't let it slide.
But meanwhile, the anti-gunners are on the news saying Trump's tweet at least an hour before
the number of dead was even known was insensitive Senate 10 Eastern.
When it wasn't even known if anybody was dead, they said it was insensitive because Trump
was nebulous and said school shooting in Texas. Early reports not looking good. God bless all.
Yeah, school shooting. Early reports not looking good. God bless all. Didn't know what was happening.
Remember the time there was a bombing and he said, oh, there's been a bombing and they said, oh,
you were right. It was a bombing, but it wasn't confirmed when you said it shut up. So now the
usual suspects are slamming the president. Our children are being murdered and you're treating
this like a game. This is the 20 second school shooting just this year. Do something.
Yeah, and most of those shootings are drug dealers shooting other drug dealers. We've had what?
Three real mass shootings where somebody went in to kill a bunch of people. And in one case,
the cops stopped him by the time he'd already shot just one person. So our prayers go out to
everybody. Let's continue to be vigilant. It's now time to arm the teachers. It's now time to
not have these places be victim to some of its own.
I witness described shooter with a sawed off shotgun at Texas High School.
Well, that'll be the first time they didn't use an AR 15 at the media advertisers go shoot schools.
It's what you do if you're crazy. They're always on prozac. We'll see if this guy's on a prozac type
drug. But here's some of the scanner audio from just minutes into it happening, where the few
police that were there went in and were calling for backup, looking like they had a pretty good
response time, unlike Parkland where they stood down. Here it is. A little bit more about what
took place this morning. San Jose PD three question mutilated off shooting at the high school.
I'm 31. We'll make an entry for that.
City Dickens and the medic one need you to say for shooting at Santa Fe school 1600 highway
six and each of the states per Santa Fe shooting at the school.
Okay, so you're listening.
Shots fired additional shots fired.
We'll go ahead and get several shots fired possibly one or two rooms in this area that we're at.
Still have several more shots.
We're coming out the front doors.
He got three shooting. He's in the art room. We've got shots fired right now guys.
Of course, this is from the 911 tapes and the dispatch is recordings of the news grab and they show footage later after
with the police milling around. That was not during the shooting. The police weren't milling around during the shooting.
We're gonna come back and play more of this.
Remember, communists have killed over 100 million people. Fascists have killed more than 40 million people.
Government's total 261 million people according to major university studies just in the 20th century.
School shootings less than 60 a year still too many, but they're going to hype this and blame the American gun owner.
That's why it's critical to get the facts out and say stop blaming us for what deranged people do.
And the fact that the media hypes up these schools as mass shooting centers separately.
We're going to open the phones up here for folks that are in the town for people that have family in the school specifically.
Here's the number 877-789 Alex 877-789-2539 877-789-2539 please don't forget.
We're going to have Alan Schreuer and our crew on the ground there in the next few hours with live coverage as well.
Please spread the live links on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and to infowars.com of our live coverage.
So we can counter the corporate media that's going to try to saddle the American people with this crime.
That's authoritarianism when you say if your neighbor does something illegal you're to blame.
Gun stop what 25 or 26 crimes for every crime they're used in.
We know the fact it's good guys and good ladies that stop bad guys with guns.
But they're still pushing, pushing, pushing saying never one more.
We'll never one more car wreck, never one more miscarriage, never one more drowned child, never one more house fire, never one more stroke, never one more stabbing, never one more drug overdue.
There's evil in the world. It's a spiritual and cultural issue.
And because we have these bad deranged people and there is some societal breakdown happening mentally.
We all need guns to protect ourselves. Our hearts and prayers go out to those that have been hurt.
Whatever you do spread the live links infowars.com forward slash show.
Let's get these articles out now's the time for maximum energy to get out front David Hogg and all these other people.
They're going to come in for the Second Amendment and who said they openly want to repeal it stay with us.
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you.
You can't go beyond the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
You will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
You can't go beyond the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
You can't go beyond the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I'm talking to Ted Nugent right now to see if he can come on the broadcast via text so I want to get his take on this.
Let me talk to him real quick.
Let me just send him a message.
Yes anytime the next three hours I'm on the knowing shores after that but I mean right now 15 minutes from now whatever works for you.
Thanks so we're working on that right now here ladies and gentlemen and there's just so much to get to my head is spending a tragic shooting in south Texas just south of Houston close to.
Galveston we've got at least 10 dead reportedly explosives found.
We're opening the phones up for eyewitnesses of the Santa Fe shooting 10 killed in Texas shooting government 17 yells surprise as he burst into art class with assault rifle shotgun and pistol and opens fire before being taken alive as police find explosives in multiple locations.
That's the Daily Mail.
Infowars.com has live coverage there as well.
We are going to continue to track this as it unfolds the toll free number to join us if you are a witness or you live in the town or you have family that's giving you eyewitness information.
Live coverage of at least 10 dead in Texas school shooting 12 also injured including officer explosives found info wars.com live coverage.
And we're an information war please spread that link.
And then also save the links oh and breaking live multiple dead at school shooting in Texas.
Oh and Shroyer they've got a live feed as they drive down but the few hours they will be there.
Again the toll free number to join us is eight seven seven seven eight nine Alex eight seven seven seven eight nine two five three nine.
We're going to go to break in a few minutes.
We're going to come back with Rodney eyewitness from Santa Fe says 150 children took shelter.
So that is all unfolding right now.
I want to go out to break here though with just a montage of Pelosi response to Trump's animal comments she knows full well it was about MS 13.
So she's saying that they're God's children.
I guess she means this man shooters OK to.
And then we've also got Trump saying I will always refer to MS 13 as animals.
Here are the clips.
Some of us who are attracted to the political arena to government and public service that we're all God's children.
There's a spark of divinity in every person on earth and that we all have to recognize that as we respect the dignity and worth of every person.
And as we recognize our responsibilities with that spark of divinity within us.
And so when the president of the United States says about undocumented immigrants these aren't people.
These are animals.
You have to wonder does he not believe in the spark of divinity the dignity and worth of every person.
These are not people.
These are animals.
The president of the United States.
Every day that you think you've seen it all along comes another manifestation of why their policies are so inhumane.
And why we have to continue to debate striving for bipartisanship with openness about what is what is at stake and what the choices are.
And to be unifying in every way possible calling people animals is not a good thing.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Can you clarify the context of your use of the word animal yesterday referring to some people?
Well it has nothing to do with this meeting but I'm referring and you know I'm referring to the MS-13 gangs that are coming in.
And I was talking about the MS-13 and also if you look a little bit further on in the tape you'll see that.
So I'm actually surprised you're asking this question because most people got it right.
But I'm saying the MS-13 you don't have that where you come from.
MS-13 these are animals.
They're coming into our country, we're getting them out.
They come in again, we're getting them out.
We need strong immigration laws.
We have the weakest laws in the entire world.
We have laws that are left out on immigration.
We are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center in the heart of the Resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
Well the mass shooting just started three hours ago.
An hour into it we didn't know if anybody was even hurt.
Fox News didn't know.
The president said, wow, you know, looks bad.
School shooting in Texas, early reports not looking good.
God bless.
The anti-gun groups from Parkland funded by Soros are now slamming the president as being insensitive.
It's just incredible.
They're already blaming gun owners.
They're already tweeting that we collectively are to blame that the Second Amendment must be repealed.
Incredible.
We have 10 dead, the reported student who's still alive burst into the art studio area and screams surprise before spraying bullets at people.
Now remember, we have 56 people a year on average, between 46 and 56, it varies each year, but not above 60 people a year that die in mass shootings.
And it's still too many, but thousands die in their backyard pools, thousands on jet skis, thousands falling down their bathrooms.
But they hype it up and they blame gun owners.
But listen, it's still way too many to have one dead student from guns.
And the answer is what the president, what Ted Nugent and what Wayne Lompier and what other great patriots like Oliver North have called for,
arming the teachers.
We're in a race to do this as the MSM advertises schools where every deranged killer should go.
And we have Ted Nugent joining us with his live expert analysis, the Motor City madman, obviously, an NRA board member.
Thank you for coming on Ted Nugent from TedNugent.com.
Well, thanks, Alex. Yeah, I appreciate the opportunity to speak a little bit of truth, logic and common sense.
And of course, we are not going to stop praying for the families and the victims.
We are not going to stop praying for America.
We will not stop giving our thoughts and prayers for victims of such evil.
As the left would like us to do as they scramble to worry about hardware and tools and weapons.
When you came out here, we showed that a shotgun is far more deadly than an AR-15.
And based on upcoming reports that I will review and I will share with you as soon as possible,
we'll find out what the cadence of fire, what the actual firepower was, what the movement of the perpetrator and the victims were.
But once again, this is not about hardware.
It's about hardware.
It's about spirit.
This is a manifestation of a cultural deprivation and the abandonment of accountability and discipline in our world,
where it goes right to the heart of what Nancy Pelosi and I painfully witnessed.
Juan Williams on Fox tried to explain how calling murderers, torturers and rapists of MS-13 animals was not proper, was hurtful.
When you can have a segment of society like Nancy Pelosi and Juan Williams and so many on the left held it,
there were headlines that we were insensitive and we were cruel and hateful for calling rapists of MS-13 animals.
I mean, you can't begin to explain this stuff, Alex.
So I know that truth, logic and common sense still propels a quality of life.
In my family, the Nugent family are independent. We carry guns. We have fire extinguishers. We have spare tires in all our vehicles.
And if we want to stop the slaughter of innocents, one armed security guard for 1,400 students will not cut it.
Somebody write that down.
You have got to have armed security at our schools like we do banks in the airport and at sporting events and race tracks.
We have to have an armed, prepared, trained security individual, preferably undercover without a uniform on, at every entrance of every school in America.
Now, I can just hear the hate and victory all coming my way because I'm recommending more guns when in fact the statistics are inescapable.
I happen to know you can get off-duty police officers bonded, certified for $25 an hour.
This is very inexpensive. It needs to happen now. The left has advertised schools for lunatics to go kill people.
And not only that, and God bless those that pursue professional training, but I know janitors and I know coaches. I know teachers.
I know administrators in schools across this country.
See, a lot of people don't know that the Motor City Madman was named father of the year at my children's school because I was in school with my children.
And I was armed every time I was in the school with my children.
And I would do Father's Day presentations and wildlife education scenarios and the discipline of marksmanship and archery and talk to the kids about how important, critical, clean and sober is to have the American dream.
But I know there are parents and teachers and administrators and janitors and coaches out there that not only are ready, willing and able to be armed to stop evil perpetrators, but they already have concealed weapons permits,
but they're invalid in those arenas where they're the most desperately needed. Alex, you can't begin to explain this stuff.
We can continue to go on and on and on. And once again, we proved that it doesn't take an AR-15 and that it's not an assault weapon and if you use a van or if you use a machete or a hatchet in London,
or you use a renaissance car in Manhattan, you can kill whoever you want to kill when people are either comfortably numb or much too relaxed and they abandon that level of awareness that is imperative for survival.
I'm called a radical because I actually pursue a higher level of awareness and situational awareness and I have the proper tools at hand from fire extinguishers to spare tires to handguns and ammo.
I'm called the weirdo as all the real insane people like Juan Williams and Nancy Pelosi condemn us calling MS-13 rapist murders and torturers animals. You can't get more bizarre than this.
That's right. Ted Nugent's our guest and I've got coming up. Dale is an eyewitness, says that his son knows the suspect. We've got Rodney eyewitness.
So they're coming up a few minutes left with Ted Nugent as we learn more as this unfolds. We'll hopefully get him back perhaps tomorrow or later this afternoon.
But just looking at the Pelosi clip I played earlier, you're obviously aware of it. I saw Juan Williams this morning on Fox.
You must have been watching the same show I was saying how dare Trump dehumanize all God's children. Then Pelosi said MS-13 have a spark of divinity.
Close quote. This is next level. I was told by law enforcement and CIA people that the Democrats actually use MS-13 as muscle for them in their big blue city areas they control and that that's why they're so mad at Trump that he's rolling up MS-13.
Well, it really is a divided nation. I just finished a documentary with a gentleman by the name of Steve West that I'll send you the link to what's coming out in major release here in the next month or so.
It's about a divided America where you're damn right we're divided. Those of us that would condemn the MS-13 rapists and murderers and torturers, those of us that would condemn evil and that on one side and then the Nancy Pelosi and the Juan Williams and the New York Times and the MSNBC
and the Liberal Democrats on the other side where they actually think that MS-13 has a spark of divinity. I'm telling you, I wrote Wango Tango which is the funniest, most fun song in the world.
But I'm going to write a song about how liberals think that rapists have a spark of divinity. This is so horrific that if you don't laugh you'll cry.
I can't even believe it. But it shows just like the liberals sided with the Arab Spring overthrowing non-radical Muslims. I mean they just have gone pure evil.
But like you said, the Democrats have been evil for a long time but they're really showing their teeth. I know you've been pushing for initiatives to have select people like President Trump's called for.
You've been quarterbacking that at the NRA, get select trained people in the schools armed for no additional cost. That would make these soft targets hard targets, wouldn't they?
Well, we've proven it just in Illinois, just this last week there was an armed individual in our security guard. I don't know if he was uniformed or not, doesn't matter at this point.
But he engaged an active shooter and number of deaths, Alex, zero. So it's not like you and I have a hunch. It's not like we have a wild guess.
It's not like we're pulling this out of our ass. The evidence is irrefutable. If you are unarmed and helpless, you are unarmed and helpless.
What a tragic, irresponsible, embarrassing condition to allow yourself to become. And all I'm saying is that I'm just a guitar player.
But I've never been without a pocket knife and a handkerchief and a pistol.
They want to domesticate you. Ted Nugent, I know you've got to go. This is a three minute break. I want to just come back with two, three more minutes with you to ask you where you think the gun grabbers are going.
Where we need to go to stop them because you know they're going to come even more now for the repeal of the Second Amendment.
So I want to get an update from you on that fight and then we'll let you go. And we've got eyewitnesses from the shooting right after that. Dale and Rodney, please stay right there.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of Black Rifle Real Estate dot com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state until one day I chose to lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20 acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our Black Rifle Real Estate team is here to help. Go to blackriflerealestate.com. That's blackriflerealestate.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size
for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
All of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. HBXTrack.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
All right, Dale says his son knows the suspect and Rodney is an eyewitness.
We have a lot of obviously listeners in Texas with every tragic event, fortunately but also unfortunately we have people right there on the ground.
And we had two students on and three different newscasts all reporting a stand down in Florida.
And now we know on top of that that Cruz was on psychotropic, protected for years, part of a promise program that let him out of jail.
And we're talking burglary, reportedly vandalism.
He was known as the school shooter, threatening to kill people.
But he was protected by Coward County, now the chief deputy that was over this and stood down that day.
He gets $8,700 a month till he dies.
And Ted Nugent in closing, I really appreciate your time, NRA board member.
You nailed it earlier, you elaborate on that.
This isn't a hardware issue, a machete, a truck, a gun.
This is an issue of sick, twisted freaks.
And it's so obvious and I'm not going to take the blame. I know you're not as gun owners with the millions of crimes that get stopped every year by law abiding citizens.
I'm not or the woman in Brazil shooting the guy that's trying to kidnap the kids.
You know, that footage from last week, this stuff never gets picked up by the media.
But these tragic events get magnified and then blamed on us.
If my neighbor runs over their wife with a truck, that's not my fault.
I don't get blamed for that.
People would get mad if a guy down the road, let's say, killed his wife with a guillotine, God forbid.
If they came to your door and said, Mr. Nugent, you're to blame because Bill two miles away killed his wife, you'd laugh at him.
But why don't we get more angry when they blame us for something that has nothing to do with us?
Well, it's fascinating because after the Parkland students abandoned their grieving and their heartfelt emotion after witnessing such a tragedy there,
they turned to hate because I termed them as mushy-brained teenagers,
which I think Alex, we're all mushy-brained teenagers when we're that young.
We're still absorbing it and we don't know much.
That wasn't a mean statement. That wasn't an attack.
Just like when the president called MS-13 animals and then the left finds fault with calling rapists animals.
So you can't make sense out of the left propaganda ministry.
Well, exactly. By the way, animals isn't enough. How about monsters? How about scum?
They're pure devils. They're just pure evil. But I just tweeted, I got my band here. I'm rehearsing.
I've got a killer gig right here in Waco, Texas at Tucker Hall on the 26th.
The whole Nugent band is here and we're barbecuing and we're shooting guns and they're going to be surrounded.
It's right in Waco, Texas at Tucker Hall and you're going to find the greatest people in the world.
They're all genuine asset column Americans and they're all gun people and they all agree with the things that I'm saying right now.
This is what I tweeted. Guns are more restricted than ever, but liberal feel-good abandonment of accountability and discipline rages on.
Let me repeat that. Guns are more restricted than ever, but liberal feel-good abandonment of accountability and discipline rages on.
In every instance, Alex, these murderers have been known to be psychotic, to be dangerous, to be threatening.
In every instance, from Columbine to Virginia Tech to Luby's cafeteria to San Bernardino and the Pace nightclub in Orlando and in Parkland,
every time the murders were known to be absolutely dangerous, I predict, and it really doesn't matter what the prediction is true or not,
but I predict that this maniac, this evil, evil person that slaughtered innocent people today in Santa Fe, Texas,
he will be discovered to be a known crazy person that in a feel-good liberal world, you don't identify a crazy person
because you might hurt his feelings, and this is the result.
Every time they're on a prozec type drug, every time they're being protected, every time there's a stand-down,
and you know, we think of Texas as red, Houston's blue now, a lot of great people, and that area down in Galveston is now blue,
and it's just weird that this seems to always happen in a blue area, Ted Nugent.
Well, the uniform crime report by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, not to be confused with the gangsters like Comey
and the thugs that run the FBI, how long would you enter a building that says,
J. Edgar Hoover over the entrance without feeling guilty and want to change the status quo?
But I digress.
But the crime report from the FBI has proven that in every highest crime zone in America,
you could map up America, it's almost all red, except for little blue, high crime Democrat smudges.
Democrats and liberals are more dedicated to make you feel good than actually doing good,
and it manifested itself today in Santa Fe, Texas, and what Nancy Pelosi and Juan Williams attempted to legitimize MS-13
by condemning those of us that would call them animals.
I mean, Rod Serling wouldn't produce a Twilight Zone episode.
Mad Magazine wouldn't run this story.
It's so stupid.
But this new, I'm going to send you a copy and a link to this new Division of America documentary.
I want to see it.
And you know what?
I think I may bring the family up to that great concert you're putting on.
Ted Nugent, say hi to Shamay.
Thank you so much for all you do.
You bet.
We're praying for the families down in Santa Fe, Alex.
Absolutely.
Pray for them.
God bless you.
Thank you, Ted Nugent.
All right.
There goes Ted Nugent, and I'm going to call him back today.
I'll probably pop back on the other broadcasts we have with Owen Schreuer is going to be in the field.
Now, I apologize to Dale, and I apologize to Rodney.
I was going to go right to you.
I sent Ted a text.
I said, hey, can you come on the next few hours?
And boom, he called the hotline.
He's a man of action.
So I was like, okay, we'll have Ted up front.
Obviously, you know why.
So we're going to now go to Dale, who says that he is an eyewitness down in Santa Fe.
We're at least 10 or dead praying for those.
Obviously, lost people praying for those, fighting for their lives.
This is a real tragic event.
He says his son knows the suspect, and then we'll go to Rodney after that.
Dale, thanks for holding.
Go ahead.
Yes, sir.
How are you doing, Alex?
I'm a longtime listener, a first-time caller, second amendment supporter.
I have a sophomore that attends Santa Fe High School at approximately five minutes to eight
this morning.
He called me out of breath, telling me that there was a shooter at the school, at the high
school, and that he was running down the road to the gas station that's just south of the
school, about a click.
And so he told me that the fire alarm went off and they all went out of the rooms.
They heard what they thought could have been gunshots, but then they heard two loud gunshots
and everybody started running.
And so he has a brother, too, that eventually met up with him there at the service station.
And I picked him up about a mile off the highway, a mile south of the school, off the highway
when I left work to run over and pick him up.
And we were watching a report on CBS where the shooter was named by someone who had seen,
been a witness to, Dmitry, I don't want to use his last name.
I guess everybody deserves some anonymity, especially minors.
But you're saying CBS said the name?
CBS said the name.
Yeah.
And this person named Dmitry and said he was in a trench coat.
And my son said at the house after I'd evacuated him said, I know Dmitry.
He's always talking about guns and knives.
And who wears the trench coat all the time into apparently his MO.
It's the trench coat mafia devil or some stuff.
Stay there, sir.
This is critical.
This is absolutely critical.
We'll be right back.
Let me talk to you during the break.
Hello, patriots.
My name is Todd Savage, founder of Black Rifle Real Estate dot com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out left sanctuary state until one day I chose to lead
my family to freedom.
Today, we live on a sustainable 20 acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden and homeschool
our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our Black Rifle Real Estate
team is here to help.
Go to Black Rifle Real Estate dot com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, DanPilla.com.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalists.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free
newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can bully their way in
and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society that is critical
to this fight.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
Staying healthy is just as important as staying healthy at home.
That's far from the pros and cons.
Use your wellness  About you
silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread
of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle, only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense
support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars. It is a classical 360
win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and
the world that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we
need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be
healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together,
we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield InfoWarsLive.com.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on for your mind.
My friend got shot in the art hole and as soon as the alarms went off, everybody just started
running outside and the next thing you know, everybody looks and you hear boom, boom, boom and
I just ran as fast as I could to the nearest forest so I could hide and I called my mom.
Now we have Dale and Rodney and others that are eyewitnesses who live there in the town.
This gentleman rescued his sons about a, he said a half mile or mile away from the school.
He said, off air to us, the name of the supposed shooter, the reported shooter and now the Metro,
one of the big papers in London, has photos of who they purport to be.
This individual, he has a Greek class name, Demetrius Pagoritus. I'm pronouncing that correctly.
It's phonetically broken down later in the article but part of that is broken as well.
Demetrius Pagortis and he liked to wear t-shirts like Born to Kill
and it looks like he was into Satanism as I predicted.
Can you guys just give me a document cam shot on my, my article and we'll go back to the witness
because it has it right here. He has an octopus which is a sign of international
evil and conspiracy, a pentagram, a pocket watch and an iron cross.
There is a communist star so it looked like he was into evil and that's what I noticed
even though the shooters at Columbine were Jewish, at least one of them was Jewish,
the other purported to be part Jewish, they were into Nazism because devil worshippers
are just into whatever's evil and I predicted in the last hour that they'd probably be a
devil worshipper on Prozac type drugs because almost every time they are, this is incredible.
Now the father who we were just talking to said that he talked to his son
and that that basically, that the name did check out. So this is preliminary, we're breaking this
down live ladies and gentlemen. What happens in mainstream media is I'll cover what another paper
covers. People won't sue that paper, they'll sue me if it's not 100% accurate. So we're reporting
on what the Metro is reporting on and going right to Dale who picked up his sons who survived
this tragic event that's killed at least 10 people. So Dale please continue, recap and then
you can say the guy's full name now because it's in the news and walk through. Is this accurate?
What the Metro was saying, please continue. Yes, it was about a five minutes to eight when my
son called me out of breath. He told me that there was an active shooter at the school and that
they let him out and the fire alarm went off and they let the kids out of class.
And as they were walking, they heard some loud noises, but then they heard two distinct noises.
Bang, bang. And they took off running and they did exactly what I told them to do. If anything
ever happens at your school, you run away from the school, don't stay at the school,
huddle up, don't do none of that. You get away. You're a good daddy. That's what I've told my
children is you run, you run, you zig, you zag. Somebody tries to kidnap you, grabs you by the
arm, you start screaming, you run. You don't put your head between your legs in case you're asked
goodbye. Absolutely. And so his freshman son, Gerald's my sophomore. He's the one that was,
I'm talking about there and his freshman sophomore James, brother James, met up with him at the
store later. So they both followed dad's instructions. Well, good. I can tell your happy daddy. Well,
you were telling us off air that your son knows the suspect. Is this description by the metro
of somebody wearing black trench coats, weird paraphernalia? Is that accurate?
Yeah, that is accurate. It sounds like an, uh, I can't pronounce that last name, either Pogardus
or something of that nature, but my son played, uh, if it's the same Dimitri, played football with
them. And he was always interested in talking about guns and knives and that sort of thing.
And, uh, he was shocked to hear that news. Uh, and so was I quite frankly. I've also got a wife,
Lydia, who got a text from somebody whose husband's on the job and they're saying that 11 people are
dead. At least one of them is a teacher. And so during this whole incident, uh, that's what, uh,
that's what she sent it over to me and I've seen it too. So this is just terrible. I'm sad to hear
that. You know, I, I predicted because in almost every case, it's the same. The devil worships
involved. Uh, and there he is sickeningly wearing a peace symbol on his hat, which is actually the
Germanic rune of death. If you actually know what it means, terrible. When the arms are up, it means
a tree living. The arms are down. It's a dead tree. Uh, he also had pentagrams, uh, Satanism,
according to his YouTube channels, according to Facebook channels. Uh, and they're saying this
is confirmed to be his channel. So just really, really, really sick, uh, that yet again, it's
evil satanic people that are causing the problems. And now other satanic people like George Soros,
are going to try to use this to take our guns. That's terrible. You know, I'll tell you, this is, uh,
this, you know, they can say it was unexpected, but I can tell you within the past two months,
they had a false alarm active shooter drill at the school and then they had two more drills
since that time within the past two months. And now it finally happens. And, uh, just last week,
UTMB hospital, thank goodness, had a math casualty drill. So, uh, I don't know if any of that's
connected, but it doesn't sound, you know, like it, uh, it doesn't sound too good to me, uh, being a
listener. Absolutely. Well, let me tell you the, the inside scoop on this 2020, even in report on
in 2002. In the mid 1990s, they started death education, suicide education,
where they'd have the kids simulate getting in coffins. They teach them about death,
how to commit suicide, so they wouldn't do it. But they found a tripling in suicides,
particularly by young girls that get their shoelaces and go in the bathroom with the,
with the coat rack hanger on the back of the stall and they'd hang themselves.
That's why most schools stopped, uh, suicide prevention because if you teach little girls,
don't cut yourselves. If you teach little girls, don't hang yourselves. Well, 13 year old girls
weren't thinking about that to begin with, but now you introduce it in your mind. So,
you have the media hyping mass shootings, you have them doing the shooting drills, just like
Parkland had shooting drills the month before as well. It puts the idea into mentally ill people
to do it. Now, I'm not saying you shouldn't still do it now. The ball's rolling, but this is how
you introduce it with the media and the culture. Oh my gosh, just put it out there. Yep. And it
causes the crazies to crack. I hear you. And so yeah, it's just the same. I mean, it's, uh,
it's the same what they're doing to us. Um, so that's, uh, really all I had to report. Um,
I just, uh, praying for everybody and ask everybody, all your listeners to pray for
us and these families that lost their kids. I mean, I just can't imagine. It's horrific.
Well, take the day. I totally agree with you. Take the daily beast. They even got it right
and said, Nick Cruz, watch the drills and learn what to do. Oh my goodness. Yeah, teach them what
to do. Well, they know if you go back to suicides in New York, off the Brooklyn bridge or off the
Empire States building, they learn that when one person would jump, there'd be a big cluster
after. And so you advertise to a bunch of kids on drugs, devil worshiping, playing shoot them up
video games all day. Yeah. The average shoot them up game doesn't make you or I killer or our kids
killers, but you take a mentally ill devil worshiper, they simulate killing all day.
It's always the same video game, devil worshiper into Nazis, into devil worship, into communism,
who's been refused by girls. And then they go and try to kill a bunch of people to show people
how powerful they are. It's pure selfish satanism. What do you think of the reported dirtbag still
being alive? Well, um, yeah, I was looking at that while they caught him alive. 11 other people are
dead. Uh, that's, you know, I don't know. That's kind of unusual. Usually when the cops respond and
and Santa Fe is a pretty close knit community. We have a lot of gun supporting. Hold on. I want
you to finish Dale. We're going to break then. I promise I'm going to rod me right after we talk
to you, but it looks like the police didn't respond. Well, choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield X two and bio true selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for
supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made
from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral
is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence every cell tissue and organ in
the body with inadequate thyroid hormones. You may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog survival shield X two and bio true selenium work together to support
the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover
the power of survival shield X two and bio true selenium at info wars life.com.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right. Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try flora life and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today. Frank in North
Carolina thanks for holding so long go ahead. Yeah I just have to say something man it seems
like every time I turn on your broadcast you're bragging. It just gets old man. I'm gonna shut
you down right now okay. We're taking calls about your nomination. Do you understand they're having
congressional hearings trying to shut us down? Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm? If that
was happening to anybody else I'd be freaked out. I mean what's it gonna take us being shut down? Is
that what you want Frank? You know what Alex? I put him on pause again. Hey Frank do you understand
it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under attack we need your help. As much
begging as I do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this. I'm not gonna just stop
growth and let them start pushing us backwards. You understand I need your help Frank? I need your
help Frank. Go to infowarstore.com right now and help fund the info. Do you understand I need your
help Frank? Free press needs your help Frank. infowarslife and infowarslife.com is extremely
excited to announce our latest release. Winner's Sun a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winner's
Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil
from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity
and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put if you want the best
at an extremely low price this is it. Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source
of vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years but the result as verified by
independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts
at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show everybody knows that the days are loaded
and everybody rolls with caffeine. So we've got Dale whose two sons survived and got away
thinks that their dad's a directive them following that common sense directive instead of staying
there and putting their heads between their legs like most schools tell you to do but looks like
this school had the fire drill and opened the doors up and said get the hell out of here
and it looks like the police responded very very quickly so this looks like this may not
be the case like we saw with the stand down in Parkland or other areas or this death toll
could have been a lot bigger. Obviously Dale we've got your number I'm going to give you our number
if you can get your son to go talk to students that were eyewitnesses and get us more intel
that would be absolutely vital and you know if you're a pro-gun of your sons are pro-gun you
probably want to get to the media as well. Owen Schreuer is going to be down at the high school
today because the the left's going to be there picking through these students and going through
their Facebooks and trying to find who's anti-gun to let them speak for you and your young sons and
for the victims as well so can you briefly speak to that then we'll go to Rodney.
Dale we got to get over there and voice our opinion on about the Second Amendment issue
that they're going to try to you know they're going to try to take it over like they do everything
right and so yeah we'll get over there see if we can track down Owen and you know if he
wants to come over for a good dinner that'll be fine with us so we're a tight-knit community
tight-knit community in Santa Fe and as for the shooter still being alive I think that does speak
volumes for the fairness that our cops and emergency respondent personnel have for
following the law man I'll tell you what if I was a policeman and I would run rushed up on that scene
I don't know if the kid would still be alive he might have got a bullet right between us
that's just uh I'm just speaking from the heart oh I absolutely I'm exactly I I don't know how
you see a bunch of dead kids and don't do it but they don't know there's somebody helping him
so it's smart if they can take him alive to do that that's a lot of restraint by the police so
absolutely all right well thank you so much we're going to put you on hold make sure we have your
numbers I'm going to give your number to Owen I'm going to give you Owen's numbers God bless
you Dale thanks for calling thank you God bless you Alex I bless you and Owen Troyer and some of
our crew are gonna be down there in the next few hours so they're gonna be on the side of that wow
that'd be powerful too to go to take those guys out to dinner we should take them out to dinner
and interview them or something like that um if I want more reporters if I have more reporters
that's one of our anchors we're sitting down there so they try to hire more crew uh but uh
I'm not complaining it's just that I'd love to be a lot I'd be able I'd love to be able to do a lot
more I would love to be able to do a lot more Rodney thanks for holding I really appreciate
you holding uh you're on the air thank you sir from Santa Fe. Hi Alex I'll tell you what I know
okay um a friend of mine owns Indian Automotive he doesn't own he he's the head guy over there
his name's a bubble he he's uh he runs that mechanic shop it's called Indian Automotive which
is directly across from the high school and his wife runs it too Lori is her name and I've
known Lori for over 25 years her her her father and I grew up together we went to school here in
Santa Fe and uh so what I what I what I know what when I talked to her father this morning
is that Indian Automotive housed or or sheltered uh upwards to 150 people in that uh three car
uh automotive shop that he has there so that might be somebody she want to talk to uh you
know get to report her over and talk to him CBS News this morning was reporting about 10
20 this morning was reporting an officer had been shot and that's what I'd like to speak to you
because since I've been going to school now I've lived here since 1977 and Dale's right
we're close to me I probably know Dale but we we've always had armed security at at the school
since the since the 70s we've had armed security at our high school and our junior high school
so I'm wondering if that report was accurate that the that the officer uh was shot that that was
you know the armed officer that was taking care of security at that school I'm very curious about
that uh as of about an hour ago highway six was shut off from 1764 going from Santa Fe
towards the high school and and and Alvin going towards the high school on highway six so I don't
know if it's if it's cleared about an hour about an hour maybe an hour and a half ago I was out there
uh you know coming back home because I was I was gonna put my boat in the water tomorrow Alex I've
been working on my boat for two months straight trying to get this stupid thing ready and then
this happened so that's out the window I'm gonna spend the rest of the day praying and and fasting
about this situation I don't know I think my next door neighbor's daughter she goes to that high
school uh high school I think she's okay because he's not bouncing off the walls so I think everything's
okay as far as that goes but um so I'm curious about but please Alex I'd like to say please
make sure that the reporting is accurate because the last thing we knew this last thing we need is
is you know uh speculation about what happened over when he left this thing play out the officers
responded very well um and so you know Dale no no I agree listen it's the media that said that I said
Parkland didn't happen so they're going to try to misrepresent whatever we do we're being extra
careful even when it's being reported by other newspapers the identity of the shooter I said
it may not be true just because they try to twist everything we do right now I understand I understand
Alex it's just you know how do you know how important it is so and and we do too so it's
just really important to make sure we have the information no I totally agree here's the bottom
line we already have hog and the rest of usual suspects blaming the second amendment blaming
Trump so all I'm saying the parents are conservatives and christians and patriots are always very
reserved the left's going to be out there today they're going to find their people they want to
spokespersons it's critical that people that don't want the first amendment or second amendment
blamed get on the news and I know that's I know people out there aren't glory pigs and you know
aren't wanting to be on television but I guarantee you they're looking at parents in the democratic
party they're looking at anti-gunner databases and they're calling people right now to stick them
on CNN ABC CBS and everywhere else to demonize the second amendment so that's why I'm saying
I agree the police responded quickly probably a real shooting you know who knows uh we're always
going to you know sit back and look and when I say real shooting you know real the way they're
saying it is because I guess last hour he's probably a devil worshiper and according to the news
you know that looks like what he is yeah like I don't I'm not I'm not demonizing anyone I don't
know this this kid from you know from Adam so I'm not not going to make any accusations there I
don't know what he did was evil and there's no question about it but um you know when we when
I went to high school here we used to have guns in our back windows that were trucks after school
we'd go dove hunt you know we're like okay we're going dove hunt bring your guns we're going such
such uh we're going to the beam field we're gonna go out there and go dove hunt okay we six or seven
of us bring our guns to school leave them in our on our windows you know on our back windows in our
trucks and after school we'd go dove hunt and uh so you know obviously you can't do that anymore
but uh yeah the world is changing I'd like to say also that what if people would understand what
they're doing to trump right now they're using the exact same tactic tactic against constitutional
law in this country they keep trying to tell everybody that democracy it's not but they're
using the same thing there we're a constitutional republic and they're dismantling the country just
like he said ms-13 are animals they said that he said Hispanics are animals everything they do is
twisting and deception Rodney if you want to leave us your number uh as a point of contact for Owen
or if you want to talk to us I'm going to put you on hold god bless you and I appreciate your fine
points they've got john and others that are eyewitnesses will go to them as well anything else you
want to add Rodney no I just but we need we need we need to pray for America pray for our youth
and uh you know stay stay close to Jesus because he's the only he's the only girl protection that
we have anymore no I totally agree and well you heard Ted Nugent this is an evil problem
absolutely I agree a hundred percent god bless you the only reason I said he was probably a
devil or spirit is they're almost always where black prince codes and have pentagrams and love
satan and play shoot them up video games and then people go oh don't blame video games they're in
the video games I'm not saying normal person playing one of those is going to do it but if
you're already mentally ill and you're on one of these prozac drugs I mean look he was wearing
communist pens uh german pens world war one iron crosses pentagrams it's just whatever he could
wear to be shocking and look powerful and evil and I guess he thought going and killing a bunch of
innocent people would just prove how evil he was to his master I've done an hour and 58 minutes
and I haven't plugged we're not going to be able to find the operation if I don't we're trying to
expand we're trying to put reporters in the field all over the world from Europe to the UK to the
US we're fighting hard as you know we make it easy to support us we have great air filtration great
water filtration we have great non-gmo aerial mcs we have great patriot t-shirts hundreds of them
ball caps you name it we've got amazing supplements at infowarslife.com we've got the toothpaste
fluoride free with coital silver and iodine fortified 50% off that's going to have to end on
monday bodies ultimate turmeric formula that's 50% off amazing uh we've got DNA force that specials
got to end DNA force plus 50% off I want you to try it see how great it is a bunch of big
specials are about to end survival shield x2 the good halogen back in stock that's going to have
to end 25% off but listen when you go there and you get these products you'll see how amazing they
are but you'll also know that products that have 98% ratings on third-party sites unprecedented
funds this operation and if you stand with us we will continue to fight as hard as we can
critical in the information war if you don't we'll fold because it takes money to run this
operation so please consider going to info wars store.com today and shopping with info wars shopping
with the good guys to help fund us but pray for all those that have died regardless I know I'm
praying for them because this is a serious issue with evil we'll be back stay with us
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis
natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial
with info wars life selects storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for
any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year
there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as
traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner
info wars life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even
work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked
up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life selects storable foods
years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast
as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had to
create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the
result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's
natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight
back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered
by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract poudarko bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
if you leave me i won't miss you and i won't ever take you back
girl your memory won't ever haunt me you know i don't take this broadcast for granted in fact
i realize it's incredible power it's incredible strength and the fact that we have listeners
in every town in every city in this country no matter how small the town is or how big
used to i'd always do with no other talk radio or tv does i'd say email me a scan of your
driver's license or your photo id or where you're at or take a photo of you with a newspaper today
in your town and these listeners would sometimes have to go to a local store at a fax machine and
would send it to us now we just have caller id on the phone system which is digital we can see
everybody's calling from there cnn doesn't do that they're famous for having fake callers you name it
you heard that last caller sound like a police officer or something or firefighter he's like
please alex just be careful and just get it right i understand that's how this is and i understand
that what we say has power i get that and i'm not saying every mass shooting stage i don't think most
of them are they stand down in these democrat areas they let the attacks happen the people are always on
psychotropic drugs it's the same story they're always wearing black prince coats they're always
into devil worship it's the mo of we know the type of evil the big octopus is the devil here folks
so i get it when i say staged i mean that the culture has staged this he's got this hydra and
this pentagram and communist and nazi paraphernalia and that's what i know about devil worshipers
they're in to whatever they think is dark and bad
you know i'll give black people this they ever once in a while are into voodoo
but they don't think that's the devil but i don't know any black people that are in to actually
wearing pentagrams and stuff i don't think i've ever seen one do it but i tell you whites and
hispanics and people do it and it's the mainly white people and it's it's sick and people think
it's powerful and i'll be honest when i see somebody wearing a big pentagram around their neck
or something i want to punch them in the nose because statistically i know that's the group
you got to watch right there and ms-13's into a bunch of devil worship too and i'm sick of it
and they're worse than animals animals are nice compared to this crud i'm sick of devil
worshipers what about you john is a eyewitness in santa fe john thanks for calling thanks for
holding your on the air go ahead hey alex how you doing oh man i was really glad school is
about override was hoping there would be another mass shooting how about you well i really i really
expect there's nothing to happen there you know i don't think anybody has told you but there was
another incident about a month or two ago at the same school with a uh oh a suspected shooter i'm
trying to get ahold of my grandson right now who is still in lockdown at school by the way
to get the information on that but he uh uh they still haven't let him out he's in the junior high
they're still locked in over there another incident huh yeah there was this about two
months ago the that's the same high school was in shutdown they they had the roads blocked off
and everything that like i said it's been a month to go uh i i can't i was about to say
they use these drills sometimes the school administrators do i'm not even blaming the
police the bureaucrats do to cover up things that happen but they said they've had two drills
that's even been on the news in the last two months perhaps that can be what you're talking about
uh i i don't know i don't know if they i just heard the other gentleman i believe it was dale
whoever it was first no guy talking about the utmb had to
had a uh mass casualty girl all time they're absent you're right well john we're back in
60 seconds let me pick your brain for a few more because you called in about the mood of the town
what you think of law enforcement what you think of their response looks like it was pretty quick
uh compared to the other events where they stand down for 15 20 minutes or longer we'll talk about
it all on the other side and i this is totally overshadowed the guy that went into the trump
golf course hotel and shot a bunch of stuff up including a well one cop got hurt
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no
better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the
most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme
formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you
fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in
tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try
flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
demetrius baguches that is a greek name 17 we've had one parent call in before we even knew that
his name was out and said no his son knew him from football if that's his name then he did
wear black trench coats and all the rest of it he's got pentagrams on his youtube channel
pentagrams on his facebook channel born to kill stuff uh he's got hydras he's got pentagrams he's
got hammer and sickles he's got german iron crosses that could be world war one or world war two
could be nazi couldn't be but that's that that's what i've noticed about devil warspers is that's
just a pantheon of evil now he's the alleged shooter who's still alive and now it's being
reported it's on info wars dot com first place we saw it about 30 minutes ago right after caller
talked about it uh was the big metro paper uh out of london england but we're all watching info
wars dot com and drugs report dot com also has uh excellent coverage of what's going on
so that's just some of the news there's also been a cuban plane crash developing
we're going to be looking at all of that it's now 10 dad in texas school shooting
in most reports some are saying eight and other reports let's hope that uh it's it's only a
i haven't even covered this yet and i will after we take calls i meant to open the show up with it
man opens fire at trump miami resort spewing hate about president who is jonathan odie we will
talk about all of that i i had that printed my stack this morning but never went to it
i've got all these notes i've written so please get me who is jonathan jonathan odie the reported
shooter now again how this works folks his mainstream media will link to somebody and say
they're the shooter i'll cover it it'll be changed later than i get sued because that's
because the democrats are targeting me so we have to put lots of provisos in here
as it unfolds trump's coming out saying that the doj is out to frame me his approval
ready continues to go up and up and up a lot of experts are saying obama's legacy is already
destroyed we're going to be talking about all of that after we take some more of your phone calls
but if you go back to info wars dot com we've got all the live feeds up there and you may say
well alex we're already watching on local tv or already listening on local radio or we're already
listening watching the feed on info wars dot com i know but that's how we reach more people it's
how we get around the sensors if you'll just spread the links if you'll just spread the articles if
you'll just do that it will bypass soros and facebook and twitter and youtube they're trying
to physically block us and of course there's another big story here we've totally caught
bolton it's now admitted trying to say we're going to give north korea the libya treatment
which is exactly what they don't want so that they'd break the deal with trump
talk about deep state sabotage and i'm sure trump knows what he's doing but he keeps bringing these
neocons in uh that cannot be trusted and i think this is a big reason to throw bolton out on his
face because he may think trump wasn't watching cbs news he only watches fox news when he went on
face the nation and said all that but that is just an incredible attempt to sabotage this important
historic peace deal all right johns and eyewitness and santa fe finishing up then we'll go to john
who used to live in santa fe and says the city sympathizes with the kkk okay well i know east
texas has some of that going on but i've been through santa fe it's like 70 minority but okay
well i mean i'll i'll i'll hear that from john uh but john the eyewitness go ahead and finish
up thanks for holding yeah the alex uh just want to confirm to you that uh i have had from good good
sources i i do work for the x maripax uh santa fe uh he confirmed to me there are 10 dead uh
from his his sources so that's that is 10 dead i mean not official but that's what i was told
he gets you know he knows everybody he he rubs elbows with the current administration so
uh but anyways i just before we get into what i saw uh i deal with this witchcraft and satanism
on a daily basis i'm a lay preacher uh probably if you was to talk to your reporters i send them
articles i write all the time uh they could probably confirm that i've been doing it for 25 years uh
yeah these these people are they're they're they're just nuts and crazy and uh 15 minutes after
that happened my daughter sent me that man's that that boy's a 17-year-old boy's facebook
profile i've got the pictures and stuff of course they've already jerk jerk it down but i've got the
screenshot say uh to which i will write an article this evening when i get home from work
but uh yeah he he pentagrams man the man's a devil worshiper is what he is and uh uh my grandson
is trying to gather some more information about him which i will write and put it in an article but
onto what i saw uh uh probably about 10 minutes after that happened alex you would not believe i
mean i have never in my life seen so many police cars and in first responders going i was coming
up highway six in santa fe not too far from the high school uh when uh all the cops responded i mean
they it's it was like cockroaches coming out of the woodwork after these being sprayed i mean it
was it was then in for an hour afterward i mean there was there was uh police coming from
cities five ten miles away i was about to say this is the point i meant to make
you you've got this incredibly expensive school that looks like it probably costs 300 million
dollars nice beautiful facility huge they just built it yes they just built it three or four years
ago yes and it's a huge nice facility and they couldn't afford but two security guards for thousands
and thousands and thousands of students but 10 minutes after you've got it looks like 300 police
cars i mean like you because we're showing helicopter shots and and that's great i'm glad
they've got those resources but why not have them stationed in place just five or six officers
instead of 200 show up 10 minutes late and i'm not blaming them but it just doesn't make sense if
you know the schools are the target of these devil worshipers there's 15 i think there's 1500
students in that school system just that one right there santa fe has a couple other and they get
they're just building another another middle school uh uh this has got to stop people got to
quit blaming the damn guns and start putting the blame where exactly the blame needs to go it's on
people people knew about this kid on facebook my it took my daughter a whole of five minutes to find
out what's when she she found out the name from my uh from my niece who knew somebody she got off
it it took her off five minutes she she's oh and sure enough he was obsessed with video games shoot
him up games a devil worshiper it's always the same she's put dad this is one sick one sick dude
and then i told her i said baby girl i says screenshot all that stuff because we're gonna
take it down within 15 minutes to be telling her that they took it down they don't want people to
know what in the hell is really going on out there and who the real problem is that's the problem
well you know i know that we found his facebook but they've already deleted in case you got something
we didn't get please send it to show tips at info wars dot com and and john we've got your number
if it's okay i'm gonna give it to oan shroyer and crew uh so so that we you guys can all meet a park
or something and he can one by one get the eyewitnesses that want to be interviewed uh
interviewed so we want to be interviewed by oan shroyer folks give us a call at eight seven seven
seven eight nine alex if you if you live in santa fei even if you don't want to be on air but you
want to talk to oan to get your eyewitness testimony out eight seven seven seven eight nine alex
it's particularly important to get the the the survivors on or any parents that have their kids
in the hospital if you want us to come interview you or them because cnn and all the rest of them
are only going to show a handful of anti gunners uh and and try to and blame the second amendment
powerful information john thank you all right get get his information i want to talk to him
talk to his daughter because that's the young lady that knew him and got the information out
this is powerful we we are first responders in the information war well they're right back with john
who used to live in the town he says heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy
blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these
that can alert you that something is wrong hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across america my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has
totally improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone
how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the
north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardio
vascular system healthy order your two months supply today by calling 866 295 35305 that's 866 295
5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866 295 5305 or hbextract.com
it's a no-brainer a big burky water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that
removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria
viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most
trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off
ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters
dot com that's 1-877-99 b-e-r-k-e-y you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former
decorated cia officer finally someone has come out and written what i think is the best x mose
on the shadow government ever we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now
being run ruled by a shadow government we got to get this out because just because you're awake
folks doesn't mean other people are this is critical to get to read a given library to give
me the courage to get them right now at killing uncle sam book dot com killing uncle sam book dot com
you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in fuller's life
they take hours michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in
probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back in stock the real red pill
it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids
so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine uh super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info war store dot com and remembering that it's
not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential
to spread the word and again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist limited free society several years ago i set out
with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and
from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure
win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and
it's made in the u.s a get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha
power today you're listening to the alex jones show from the info wars dot com studios in
the recaptured state of texas it's alex jones you know the statement when isis runs over a bunch
of people killing hundreds with the truck we're gonna ban trucks but that's intentional not by
the truck by the isis member but we got 107 people perhaps dead we don't know after a Boeing 737
airliner carrying 107 people crashes moments after takeoff a real tragedy there the plane
reporter leap belongs to the government of cuba the domestic flight was due to last around 20 minutes
the crash between the locality there inside cuba outside havana
that's part of life folks there's seven and a half billion of us
and millions are coming in every day millions are going out every day i forget the number how
many people are born every day and how many die every day last time i checked it was like 400
something thousand that was years ago some factoid so who knows if that's right can we look up the
number of people estimated to be born every day versus die every day coming in coming out constantly
checking in checking out constantly our hearts go out to those who died but you don't ban aviation
because it happened it's still very very rare to die in a plane crash if you live in a western
country now if you live in cuba they have a worse record than other countries because they're communist
who is jonathan odie the man shot by cops after firing a gun at trump national
by the way that had some of the top world championships held there until trump got
elected and they took it away from him all things trump's been punished for he's lost
reportedly billions of dollars for what he's done standing up for us we should never forget that
less than a year ago south african native jonathan odie proudly posed behind the background of an
american flag titan's citizenship god bless the usa in america he wrote but now he's an anti-trump
person we'll cover that after we talk to the next caller jon says he used to live in san afa
and he's got some comments go ahead jon hi alex uh first of all i live there from early 2003 until
july of 2006 and for the record most of the people wait a minute i know jon jon's one of our
longtime callers we even know jon ish yes sir and uh most of the people there in san afa were
wonderful people know if sands or butts about it however there was a small cadre of kkk types
and here's what they did first of all in around july uh june or july of 2006 they went to a young
black woman's house now this young lady had not done anything or said anything to disparage anyone
or to hurt anyone she was just minding her business and trying to raise her family in peace and quiet
and they spray painted her white home with black graffiti from a spray can with vile slogans and
garbage that you couldn't say over the air and of course the usual swastikas all over the house
and i went before the city council and criticized the kkk and by the way at the time the jp
was both the head of the kkk chapter and the masonic lodge chapter there in san afa i don't
know if he still is or not but i criticized them i said here we are in 2006 and there are some
people still living in the stone age and what happened just a couple of nights later someone
came over to the rental property that i was renting it was on the same property as my landlords
and they keyed my truck they scratched it up with a key and i called the police and the officer came
down there and took the report and then the next night they did it again and i called the officer
and he came by there and i asked the officer i said what would happen if i caught someone vandalizing
my truck and shot him he said well then you'd go to prison i said fine what would happen if i caught
someone vandalizing my truck and hosed him down with some pepper spray then you'd be charged with
a salt and battery not once did that officer mention what he would do to the criminal who was
vandalizing my truck not once then when i called the police chief to speak to him his very nice
secretary told me john he's out of town for a few more days he's on vacation i'll have him call you
when he gets back two weeks after he returned to town he still had not called me he made no attempt
to call me now let me tell you about another thing that happened go back to the virginia tech shooting
32 innocent lives were slaughtered at virginia tech and just three days after the virginia tech
massacre i'm watching network television and they ran a commercial for a video game where they show
this cartoon character walking into his house taking up a 1911 45 automatic screwing on a
suppressor and then walking outside and routinely shooting innocent people who walked by his house
no i know and there's a big video game lobby whenever i say video games are connected to mass
murder they were developed to make troops not hesitate and pull a trigger out for vietnam had
issues and i'm not saying ban the video games but it's absolutely a fact and they go don't censor
our video games look i'm not censoring your video games i'm saying these are military training games
and you put a mentally ill person on them they're going to turn into a psychotic and they're
contributing factors to these headcases who go around because the thing you have to ask have
hey pushes them over the edge it pushes them over the edge right now have your reporters ask the
mainstream media types who are going to be covering this thing and santa fe asked them one question
give us the name of one murderer rapist arm robber drug dealer gangbanger head case terrorist or
school shooter who obeys gun laws give us their name that's i was about to say i want to have a
press conference tonight uh in santa fe and i wanted to have olyn call some of the locals we
talked to him pick a park or something near that school where we're going to have the press conference
we can announce on air for all our listeners that are in that area south texas houston you name it
to go show a big show there of people and also go out and canvas the locals and get these eyewitnesses
because we may not get it on tape but you may shoot it on your smartphone put it on youtube
you know of key information and again we're not saying this got staged we're not saying it's a
false flag we're not saying it was a police stand down because we're not getting early reports of
that looks like the police went right in what we are saying is the democrats are going to canvas
these people they're going to pick a few anti-gun folks who will then be the spokespersons for the
entire school we need that's the way they always did alex go back to uh early oh gosh 1983 i was
living in houston at the time and the epa came to town and they wanted in order to reduce air
pollution they wanted all houstonians to drive 75 fewer miles now they never said how are you
gonna get to work or get to school or get your shopping done or anything else and then despite
the fact that hundreds of us packed the auditorium there at the marriott in south houston they then
picked a few people as change agents that they claim represent you one woman from the league of
women voters and a young punk from uh the fiera club who favored the epa proposals no i know they
go out and they act like it's called the delphi technique they have a public event they act like
they're listening to you then they cherry pick who represents you that's it don't let gun grabbers in
santa fe represent texas folks this is important let's get ahead of this
were you born before the year 1956 if so did you know you could be collecting between 575
and 2200 in tax free income right now all thanks to the fha or what about this did you know 54 us
congressmen have used a special tax free account to earn up to 35 times more on their money it's
true and you can do it too these are just two of the secrets revealed inside a stunning new book
from the palm beach research group and ted benna the man behind the 401k you'll discover the 18 best
cash cows that can help you earn up to an extra 6800 dollars a month just go to 501kbook.com right
now if you're at or near retirement this book is a must read you can get your own free copy
shipping and handling charges apply just go to 501kbook.com right now while there are still
copies left that's 501kbook.com 501kbook.com just go to 501kbook.com right now guaranteeing your
food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even
simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select
storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and
meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better place to look for healthy
easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a
variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select storable food will
help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour
kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be
caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for
an affordable price with info wars life select storable foods staying healthy on the go is just
as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough
that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue
silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles
immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new
purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to
stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help
you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle
features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver
immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and
stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info
wars life dot com western europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship
is sending down over the uk they're set to pass rules on a law that if you criticize islam or gays
you'll get six months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the
uk cnn and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine
has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info
wars psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are
the most hated news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
learning about a new plan the trump administration is set to propose today this is important new
restrictions on abortion and clinics which provide them let's go back to christin welker at the
white house has been following this closely christin what have you got significant development
alley the trump administration expected to announce later today that it will limit federal funding
essentially block federal funding from clinics that offer abortion services or that refer patients
to other clinics for those purposes now why is this being done well the white house says this is a
campaign promise made a campaign promise kept a white house official telling me donald trump
ran as a pro-life candidate and has governed as a pro-life president another promise made
and kept essentially saying look uh this is something that the president is following through
with that he promised out on the campaign it's something that conservatives his base
are cheering alley this is a move that they wanted to see take place and of course it comes
ahead of the midterms there's a lot of concern within the republican ranks that they're going
to lose key seats that they may even lose the house of representatives this is one more data
point that this white house that republicans could use out on the campaign trail on the other hand
you have a lot of opposition to this move plan parenthood the executive vice president saying
simply this is an attempt to take away basic rights period so expect a strong backlash by those who
say it limits the ability of places like plan parenthood which not only offer abortion services
and counseling on abortion but that offer other women's health services and that ultimately stripping
this type of federal funding could strip funding away from some of those other critical health
services that go for women so this is highly contentious but a significant announcement
that we're anticipating from the white house leader on today alley all right christin thanks
very much 50 plus percent of black people never make it out of their mama's womb
but liberals will attack me for not using whatever the new term is for somebody
i literally at a spiritual level feel horrible about any child being chopped up fighting for
its life with chemical sprayed onto it or scalpels i mean i've talked to the doctors it's been in the
news the babies fight for their lives one of our crew members brother had a baby that died two weeks
four term and he got a in velcro core wrapped around his neck and they said the baby had fought
to get out of it i've got four children and you know you see spike lee shaking in hate for trump
with made-up stuff trump never said and the new thing oh he says hispanics are animals no he said
ms-13 are animals and it's just the pure evil of lying about trump who never claimed he was
a goody to shoot with women or any of this but he is pro-life he is following what he said he would
do and that's why they hate him so much folks and it's a magic moment you know i really appreciate
reverend plinard children's coming on he's come on all the time time passes we get busy he was nice
to let him move him back in our because of the tragic mass shooting with a devil worshiper i
predict you'd hour one will be a devil worshiper because it always is they try to cover it up with
this guy pentagrams devil worship shoot them up games it's always the same thing but he's the pastor
clenard our children's author filmmaker black genocide dot org i'm not going to go over all
his diplomas or background or what he fights with the films he's made and how he goes to congress
and tries to get the black caucus to actually come out and you know get people to actually talk
about the real black genocide going on it's a genocide period that's particularly targeted
blacks the blacks are 13 percent of the population they're half last time i checked the abortions in
this country and i'll sit there when some crazy leftist white person black persons in my face
calling me a racist that's what trump's spinning in my face and i'll say hey don't you care they
abort half the black people oh shut up you nazi nobody wants those babies so he's here to break
that down to see how trump has delivered again and i just don't know how people continue to
say that kanye west is bad uh or they could say that i'm bad or they can say that kandace owens
is bad or they can say that anybody who supports the president is all these evil things when i
don't know what planet they're living on are they living on the same planet as us reverend clenard
shelbert because you're a leading expert on black genocide well no question the facts are beginning
to come out and i really want to say thank you for all that you've done over this past year and a
half of making sure truth gets to the forefront of discussion uh given kandace owens a very
articulate young black woman a space to share her mind her heart who would ever think kanye west
would make the comments he made but uh it's all coming now to a point of discussion and and they
know they lose i'm never i never thought i would see america in this state at this present time
the vitriol the hatred the lies the deceit they're so blatant now and it's really about power
they realize they're about to lose power after kanye west's comments i don't know if it had
anything to do with that of uh of kandace owens i like how she thinks um the polling for african
americans rose up to i think amongst men 22 percent doubled in support at alex they know it's over
if that's the case this cannot continue to grow they will do anything i'm scared for my family
when they go out i am concerned about anyone who is speaking truth they are so desperate i never
thought i'd see this they are so desperate to stay in power quantify that you talked about this a lot
years ago blacks are 13 percent but they're a key tipping voting block for the democrats without
black folks they have nothing that's it and they're realizing that now your listeners need to know
know and you stated all the time they are utter panic right now they are going to lose their minds
and i'm afraid to what's going to happen and even the shooting today it would not surprise me if
there was somehow someone soup this guy's head up someone did something i don't put anything past
them at this point trump must be stopped and now you have the Mueller investigation folding up like
a piece of paper he's he doesn't know what basically they were hanging their hat on that and now you
have a president who actually keeps his promise yes he ran on a pro-life program and no doubt
african americans are hearing these facts now that uh 12.4 percent of the population but accounting
for 36 percent of the abortions i understand it's a little lower now i'm so happy to hear that but i
don't know if that's from either from chemical abortions because they don't have cities it's 50
percent right well in new york city more babies are boarded than born in the african-american
community as many philadelphia is the same way uh la and chicago so i'm glad to hear those numbers
since we talked to you're going to start to drop some they are starting to drop it's it's programs
like this that are beginning to take root and they know it's taking root it's amazing to me
that unquestionably as i walk the streets now there's not this total allegiance to the party
that is perceived to be the facilitator of the civil rights movement they're now questioning
this is a great time for activists to be out to be in but like you said they are scared and striking
back no i'm really fearful alex i don't know what's going to happen they have to do something in order
to stay in power trump has to be stopped uh there has to be uh chaos in america there has to be
confusion uh anybody in their right mind they watch a cnn msnbc can hear and see the total
total bias uh surely there's no question that journalism is dead there's no objectivity give me
the facts let me choose and let me then decide what i want to do we could take on any forum in the
country as long as we're given a voice as long as we're able to present our case guess what they
don't want that and this is scary how can berkeley censor free speech yeah i'm an old guy i remember
berkeley being the citadel of free speech how can they then attack a conservative speaker
we don't understand the older voice is off to have to point this this hypocrisy out without
question but uh black genocide is becoming a forefront of discussion black genocide is now
coming to the point where it's a discussion in the african-american community it's not where it
should be but it's it's cool well thanks to you and others i was about to say that i watch youtube
just randomly all these great voices are exposing it uh it's amazing info war's life is bringing you
a breakthrough in modern medicine introducing pollen block we have found an extraordinary new
natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and
sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the 1960s researchers in france
noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory
responses they began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have
the fruit of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an antihistamine in fact current research
is found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that
amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets fueling your body
is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel
it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you
break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay
fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how
well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today you deserve a deep restful sleep with
knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the
world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep
up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit
info wars life dot com to secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and
scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula
available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month
supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the
history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard
of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin
mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean
that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war
that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
you're listening to the alex jones show
while you were sleeping they came and took it away the lanes in the middle
the place is where you used to play
we're back live folks and i i really want to ask reverend filters to come back for a full hour
sometime next week we need to get him on every month anyway it's the great work he's done
the books the films how he goes to congress and demands they talk about real issues and then you
see these fake congressmen and women get up there and know they're diverting people from what they're
really doing it's sick and this this whole agenda tag like america wasn't abolitionist or christian
to act like the republicans didn't do the civil rights act not that they're perfect either
and just all of it turns down the democrats as they flip everything into this whole
race-based narrative and then the litmus test is okay well then you support
in many cities the majority of black people never being born and it's just like and it's not like
some virtue signaling i'm doing none of us are safe folks if they can do this to anybody and now
trump's moving to cut the funding off to ban partial birth abortion to move it back to the
states where it's going to be banned and this is like common is china where they sell political
dissonance organs if we don't value our children we're not going to value old people
right to value anybody and and and to see how conscious it is and then the wiki leaks that came
out where there's top professors advising hillary they go we're losing control and she goes well
what do we do she goes they go culture war that's another word for race war and you see it and it's
and then kanye west sees through it anybody and they go oh you're just rich that's why you're he's
like no i'm not saying stuff isn't going on but i'm transcending that and i'm not going to play into
what they say i am in this whole game and then the one thing they can't debate is black genocide
like i said i see all these people not even looking who are mainly really articulate smart black
people all over youtube and stuff just laying everything out the reverend children says margaret
sanger the whole fact and they say the litmus test is i don't want to hear about you know somebody
being racist to me or this or that when it's some nebula seal how about this of the democratic party
and they don't know how to deal with it so reverend children's just you've got a lot to say in the
limited time we have a snapshot then of where you think the world is today and i agree you can see
their full power of this global system with the china one child policy and the thing that genocide
africa and genocide the third world and they're trying to genocide eastern europe they just are
trying to knock everybody out soros is behind it but i think humanity is awakening and i think
that's what scares them absolutely and they've been a stadium listeners black genocide is the key
to overturning the ideology of this leftist liberalism marxism socialism that is coming
to america because they need the african-american community to continually the support and sell
out to this um and be that almost like as if the face of it because they need this to be able to
uh perpetuate this throughout the world genocide it's it's basically social engineering that's the
way they want to move and that's the way they want to unquestionably uh every hollywood movie every
show is whites are killing you whites are out to get you except where the real racist globalist
whites are actually killing you and let it be known white white supremacy is so clearly seen
in the abortion industry now margaret sanger was a white supremacist i dare anybody in this country
to take me on on that to have a simple debate if you're gonna break down the premise she said
we gotta pull up the black weeds exactly was a she was a genocidalist she and she collaborated
with the uh nazis in germany and unquestionably and do you know most of our college students
don't know this when i'm traveling and i'm on college campuses they have no idea of this there
has to be a grassroots it will totally tip the scale because there's one thing this generation
that's in school and college students right now they don't want to be racist in any way for more
fashion uh they're so afraid of the word racist but here it is and without without question this
woman was clearly a white supremacist so how can why won't you demand her bus to be taken out of the
smithsonian in washington dc why don't you demand the streets named after her like in new york city
for that uh street to be renamed well let's call it for what it is because right now
white males uh that show any sort of indifference towards african-american minorities
are immediately called white supremacists white supremacists we're down with white supremacy
you're a liar until margaret sanger comes down i won't even hear you i won't even recognize you
you're hypocritical you're blatantly uh dissent deceitful margaret sanger was a white supremacist
i want her out of our smithsonian i want her out of the public square she stood for hatred like
you said hitler wrote public letters and said that she was his bible and they wrote each other
letters i mean this is insane absolutely and so let's have the discussion but guess what
they don't want that discussion that was time magazines had her what woman of the year twice
even like a decade ago they should apologize but they won't we gotta make them i'm gonna listen
i'm getting around resources on what they should be but i am going to confront all of them publicly
with our signage we're gonna be out in front we want an apology why would you ever endorse and
propagate this this woman's work in her doctrinal beliefs how can you ever hold her in high esteem
why is she over the top 100 influential people in the country now she was but not in the in the
vein that you're saying she was she was a brilliant strategist she was evil so here we are we want to
call it for what it is and of course you know who funded her the rockefellers who funded they found
her and they funded the colesprings harbour that taught the keiser velhelm institute everything i
mean this is just a fact she the rockefellers and sanger basically created hitler yes yes and we
need to first of all get it everybody is talking about uh they want their rights they want basically
equality they they want diversity okay they didn't margaret sanger didn't he wanted to be
elit them to be eliminated hitler got his ideas for concentration camps from her so uh we gotta
understand that we have the goods now they are teetering please do not draw back they are being
tipped over at this point politically i'm gonna be on you for probably 16 17 years i never heard
you so positive uh but i'm not but i think you're right i think that's why they're so panicked
is because this is all coming out it's coming out they know this is pivotal because it basically
would say they would never back out of it that they supported this that they it's a part of their
platform okay it's a part of their means of global control and like you said then they cover it up
claiming they want to make everybody friendly when they're getting just average folks to fight with
each other so they can come in with their whole agenda to be in charge and that's and that's never
been new by the way we need to recognize that so what is happening and i think is awesome uh
trump is keeping his promises we have to understand that we have a boss site construction forming
as a president and that's refreshing he's not going to come forth as a presidential
adequate that everybody wants but guess what he gets the job done let this if they give him
uh uh just a smaller percentage of the support that they gave barack a bottle if you can imagine
what we were where we would be if the media supported trump oh my god he'd be totally turned
around oh my lord so he's done this against insurmountable odds and be quite honest with you
i did not think he would survive with all the factions against him i was shocked at the depths
of corruption and deception i think it's people like you praying for you there's no doubt about
that i don't i i have proof i shut my church down for two days alex to god two days before the
election the lord said to me he will win but you have to pray that they don't take it from him i thought
he was talking about you know fooling around with the numbers on election day hold on this is
powerful do five more minutes with reverend shoulders who by the way get him on every month
it will come on we just got to put it in the calendar because like a year goes by i'm like
what my favorite guest he's so busy i want to talk about his films his books all of it because
it's so critical speaking of films and books i got to find my operation i hardly ever plug
soros and hillary are openly suing me they're trying to shut me down we're strong we're going
to be okay as long as you stand with us what do we sell fluoride free toothpaste four to five
of clodal silver and iodine everybody needs it 50 off right now that sales going to end on monday
we've got the tumeric 95 percent recumbent and super strong that's 50 percent off x2 the good
halogen that counters the bad fluoride it's the good halogen iodine that's 25 percent off
we've got pre-order the killing of uncle sam my pastor brown who was in studio with us yesterday
it's powerful let's start shipping out next week it's all there if you'll just support us financially
and spread the articles of the videos by hand we will defeat soros and hillary but i'm not
going to lie to you they put a knot on my head let me they are they are really trying to stomp
us into the ground but we're going to move forward info war store dot com info wars life dot com
be sure to check out the books and films at black genocide dot org we'll be back to talk about
the the pastor praying and what god told him he did not didn't understand it like
he's going to win but don't let him take it well they're trying to take it right now
we'll be back stay with us hour number four two minutes away
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural
disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info
wars life select storeable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better
place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as travelers stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life select storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great
for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you
and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select storeable foods
i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store
dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children
and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a 2533139 and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're
coming back against us so we need your support you're listening to the alex jones show
you walk into this room at your own risk because it leads to the future not a future that will
be but one that might be this is not a new world it is simply an extension of what began in the old
one it has patterned itself after every dictator who has ever planted the ripping imprint of a
boot on the pages of history since the beginning of time it has refinements technological advances
and a more sophisticated approach to the destruction of human freedom but like every one of the super
states that preceded it it has one iron rule logic is an enemy and truth is a menace
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex jones show
all right he's loaded for bear coming up to break down the whole communist globalist program
and how that ties into it joe gilbert's got a bunch of guests lined up former communist you name it
but finishing up the reverend shoulders someone invite back next week for full hour talk about
what's happening get back into what happened right before the election what god told you
and what you envisioned and now where we are today well basically if certainly we were trump
caught everybody surprised a year prior and it came to me that this was the lord's choice i'm not
the only person that said this and two days two or three two days before the election
um i was praying and uh the lord said for me to uh have the church pray with you all night prayer
for two nights that he had won that donald trump won the election but they would try to take it from
him my naive self not having any idea what the depths of what god was saying i'm figuring okay
they're gonna mess with the numbers that night we got to pray that that they don't take it from
he said they're gonna try to take it from well they tried that too but you're right that after
is when it really came right and i was just totally stunned at the revelation as i saw
things unfolding straw page our own set brannon i mean this i i could not believe this that they
were actually here you have a sitting president i really naively thought everybody would go to
their respective corners they would wait his term out and basically you know there'd be resistance
but not to the degree i didn't know there was a plan b to take him out this was crazy but
it just fell into line to what the lord had laid on my heart and we continue to do that once a month
to pray for him uh all night prayer and praying for him and the success of working his hands
because what he god was basically saying okay i'll put him in but the prayers of the church
have to keep him there that's what he was saying by the way the night i felt the same thing in my
my gut my spirit which the older i get to learn to always go with when roger stone was right here
and he won i said he's like why are you upset and i said they're really gonna come after us and him
and everybody now we just began the war like they thought they were in power they're gonna flip out
now and i just said i can feel their hatred i and i i just i just knew that it was coming
Alex there's no question i mean you'll never receive the accolades and the rewards that
your program has done to save america um it was just unquestionably i love the way
that they that they try to make you to be some obscure source of relevant news and
it proved to be something that was totally as you said uh something that the grassroots they
were shocked at the the the power of the grassroots movement through this program and uh never
other programs start taking your cue i've always been a supporter but i never really thought that
the weight of the country would be on this program as well as others i thank god for no you too it's
everybody together it's all of us together went over the edge and this is our little reprieve if
we don't make it happen i know you're a busy man but please come back for a full hour thanks for
letting us move you back sorry about having to do that for the shooting oh i know you gotta do your
job no problem at all and grateful to be on the program anytime you'd have black genocide.org
what about the books the films all of it to really educate people because you and i both
know this stuff we kind of think or i kind of think everybody knows that we got to keep at
least over a few months repeating it for the new audiences so please join us to get into the whole
history of uh black genocide and the whole plan uh as a beta test for all of humanity god bless
you reverend thank you all right coming up joel gilbert on the other side like i said loaded
for bear he's ready to go and then we're gonna announce a press conference i'll do that briefly
when we come back there's a press conference in santa fe tonight i'm so excited the new product
at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute
top the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulus
in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went off
what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were
charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula
working with some scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill
now available at m4warsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation
defending the republic from enemies born and domestic it's alex jones
all right jones gilbert a documentary filmmaker author researcher he's taken over in just a
minute or two oh and shroyer as we speak is arriving in santa fe texas a site of at least
unfortunately 11 dead another school shooting the democrats blaming trump blaming the second
amendment i'm not taking from their loss but thousands die every year drowning in pools
thousands more in lakes thousands and jet ski accidents a big plane blew up crashed on takeoff
with 109 people from cuba outside of anna it's it's there's a seven and a half billion of us
we come in we come out of the world this guy appears to be a devil worshipper wearing a
communist lapel pin uh we're gonna go live we're live now but in about 50 minutes with the war room
with oh and shroyer roger stone myself oan and drew and the crew are down in south texas but coming
up at 6 p.m if you look at a map on google earth uh of the school just two streets down towards the
east is maple and tower and we know that that's right now where the police have things blocked
if you get there and they're blocked out further i wouldn't expect that i'd imagine the perimeter will
go in as they understand there's not other shooters though they say he had ied's and
accomplishes who knows but oan shroyer at maple and tower tonight six o'clock a press conference
and the press conference will be oan talking to the callers we already had and when we checked
who they were from santa fe reporting on this guy being known that he was a devil worshipper
that there was a stand down not by the police but a stand down by mental health and others just like
we saw in parkland uh with nicholas cruz who we now know is part of this anti-racism program where
he could commit burglaries and vandalism and threaten to kill people and he never went to jail
because his last name was cruz even though he was adopted he was a white person adopted by
hispanics who died before he died and before this event happened so maple and tower 6 p.m tonight
if something happens just look you know down the street from that or up the street
you'll find oan either up maple or up tower at the next checkpoint but right now the checkpoint's
basically up from that so we've picked maple and tower 6 p.m if you are a parent or one of the
surviving students or one of the victims don't wait for the democrats to show up in canvas the
three thousand plus students big high school and pick four or five of their anti-gun to say
they they represent you if you want a voice on info wars and a voice so fox news and others
can see hey here's who to be interviewed to give their view that hey we don't want our guns taken
because right now they're going to misrepresent you they're going to send in the the uh million
mom marge the george soros groups that fund uh these current groups so they're going to take
this over so we only just sit back here and and let them claim that they represent the people of
santa fe and the texas down there so oan shroyer is there and we've already had more than a dozen
parents and others say they're going to be there but if you live in houston and you've got a view
on this or your surrounding areas or gallistan you want to be there to support oan shroyer and
what he's doing the corner of maple and tower i'll put a tweet out on real alex jones i'll have it
retweeted on prison planet with paul watchin that info wars is going to hold a press conference
with victims with citizens with witnesses tonight six o'clock so that's in roughly four hours
or three hours and 51 minutes maple and tower
you can also call us here we'll relay your number to oan shroyer if you're an eyewitness or a parent
or you want us to come to the hospital and visit with you and your family that'd be powerful to
interview you know hoping your children doing well or just have a flesh wound or whatever
because the media is going to be trying to get into those other kids the globalists if you want
us to come in and talk to you respectfully or talk to your family or talk to any of the victims
we're ready right now you can give us a call at 877-789 alex we'll relay that name and number to
oan shroyer and crew who are now arriving so that is again 877-789 alex 877-789 2539
now joe gilbert a award-winning filmmaker researcher takes over for the hour he's loaded
for bear as i said but thanks for letting me crash into what you're up to you understand we've got
a lot of breaking news here but you're you're you're covering the the ground level of what
we're facing so so thank you joe gilbert absolutely thank you alex we're gonna do a great show here
today uh coming up we're gonna have former kgb lieutenant colonel constantan praeba jinsky
an intelligence expert and he's gonna really explain to us the differences in the russian
mentality uh the russians don't think like americans think they have completely different
ideas and goals and values uh one thing he told me which we'll get into for example
he said that when america and the world puts sanctions on russia it increases pudin's popularity
so in the west uh teresa may of course the trump administration they think well if they poison
somebody then we're going to put sanctions on them and that'll teach him his lesson in fact uh
pudin gains uh popularity when these kind of things happen so we're going to talk to constantan
he was very close to litvinenko who was poisoned and killed in in england uh he cannot go back to
russia right now and he's going to really educate us uh there he is in my film there's no place like
utopia he's going to give us a lot of education about how the russians think what they think of a
lemur probe uh what they think of obama the iran deal and you're going to get a whole different
world uh trying to understand the way well i know this guy's a high-profile guest so i'm really
impressed you've got him coming on this is this is important information exactly so we'll have him
up here uh he's written several books he's uh somebody that uh was inside the kgb he was a
recruiter for the russians in japan during the cold war he would recruit chinese students
and japanese until he was eventually caught and thrown out of japan ended up going back
to russia and defecting to the united states in 2006 so you're going to learn things that you never
even understood uh the way that the russian intelligence operates uh he's going to talk
about the steel dossier uh whether that was even an intelligence document or just a big joke
so constantan pribyzinski coming up you know alex right after the break and we look forward also to
news night later to see what they're coming up with uh in in the school shooting uh i hope that
oliver north who now is taking over the n r a i hope he does a much better job than this a guy uh
lapierre always did a poor job i thought defending the n r a oliver north needs to come on and say
listen n r a is even more important now we're about self-defense we're about gun safety and i
hope i totally agree you know a lot of years not perfect not as good as heston but you say what you
want about oliver north he's hardcore he says this is persecution of america attack on our
basic rights and people trying to say get rid of our second amendment are terrorists because
they're not engaging in free speech they're trying to repeal the bedrock of the country so
i'm very excited about oliver north uh actually actually being there you know i used to interview
him all the time and once got a bunch of negative questions for him and you know about about
all the stuff that happened in central south america he said listen i'm not a traitor in my
country i do what i was supposed to well i get that i was i was only asking hard questions but
you know we now see the democrats had a whole plan to collapse all the way up to the us with
communists and then collapse the us if communists have one thing they certainly think big uh they
have an agenda which is complete it's the it represents the total domain it has so much in common with
islamism uh islamists and leftists both have a passion for destruction they have a passion for
taking over everything they have a passion for complete control of everyone's lives uh that's
why we don't get the western ethos of renaissance that that explodes with productivity and success
don't they get if you turn people loose that's what creates all the wealth
they're still in denial they they cannot accept that their vision for the perfect world for utopia
for making the world a better place with the government in control taking all your property
giving out jobs and giving out money they cannot accept that their model for humanity
is a complete disaster and they'll never go away that's why it's so important to keep educating
people about the truth and reality of free markets versus uh this government controlled
socialism which leads on a path to nowhere it creates a dystopia not a utopia like your film
uh we carry all your films live for store.com Joel Gilbert takes over on the other side with
exclusive interview the former member of the kgb i'm alex jones and then in about 45 minutes we
kick off the war room with oan shroyer live live from the tragic shooting uh space there in santa
fe south texas so pray for oan the rest of crew out there it's all coming up spread the live links
that you see out there that's how we reach new people that is how we bypass the globalist
you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer finally someone
has come out and written what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government ever
we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run through ruled
by a shadow government we got to get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't
mean other people are this is critical to get to read a good library to give you the church
get them right now at killingunclesambook.com killingunclesambook.com bacon lovers we ship free
try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10
year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today
ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for
your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat bacon.com want revenge on
the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a better way
the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 3995
and free economy shipping use discount code GCN and get an extra 10 off your purchase at bugasalt.com
fire your fly swatter get your bug assault today if you or someone you care about loves outdoor
adventure then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift ideas that's slingbow.com
where we have some innovative new products for the archer hunter or bow fishing enthusiast
in your family now through january use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the us or
canada and from all of us at slingbow industries have a safe joyous and peaceful holiday season
nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info war's life
help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic
fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest
food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info war's life's cutting edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic
fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect
head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139 pike in arizona here on the air worldwide go
ahead oh alex you can rent any day of the week thank you sir for doing what you do and being a
patriot and doing your best to save america and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that
in our local areas as well um and as a long time info wars listener i want to say thanks
for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like to say thanks for the
anthroplex thank you i use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't
big normal toothpaste fans the super blue is awesome and thank you so much alex for the info
wars life products they are quality i can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing
that for us to keep us healthy absolutely because then we could all as educated patriots help our
other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our
houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves we can take our country back you're
listening to the alex jones show we are on the march the empire is on the run alex jones and the gcm
radio network welcome back welcome back to info wars this is joel gilbert i'm uh hosting this last
hour of the alex jones show don't forget to check out my new dvd in the alex jones store of course
trump the art of the insult you'll learn all about trump how he thinks and you'll
fall in love and laugh for 95 minutes over and over it never gets old trust me uh so
be sure to go to the alex jones store for that dvd i want to bring on uh my guest uh right now
is former kgb officer constantan gurgorovich priabaschensky constantan is a former kgb lieutenant
colonel an intelligence expert and author of several books including the spy who loved japan
kgb new trojan horse and even a new book an american man's guide to russian women
and uh i think if we understand russian women we can start talking about the mentality of the russians
now some of you know constantan from his appearance in my film which is in the alex jones store also
there's no place like utopia you know a place like utopia there he is and i think we can
learn a lot from him uh talking to a former kgb colonel constantan zdrasovce welcome to info
war zdrasovce nice to see you nice to see you again great to see you constantan first of all
before we talk about the book what was your job in the kgb and uh what exactly did you do undercover
and what was your cover in japan in japan um i was covered as the correspondent of the telegraph
agency of the soviet union and my task was to spy on china mostly on china
and how did you spy on china what did you do to recruit chinese students
i just was recruiting them it was it's a great job i was looking for the chinese students
made some personal contact with them usually i said that i need a personal tutor of chinese
language they agreed and then they gave them uh 100 dollars for this lesson which is too much
i the lesson took place in the restaurants luxurious restaurants at the time chinese students were
very poor and i said mostly oh let's not do a lesson today let's postpone it for the next time
but please take the honorarium it made our relations very just progress and then
slowly but surely they became agents or collaborators of our intelligence it's the way
all other intelligences are doing nothing new nothing special i see and you were eventually
arrested and kicked out of japan is that correct what year was that yes it was 1985
just i was going to meet just a chinese scholar whom i recruited but japanese police
was waiting me in the place of our meeting instead of himself what occurred to him later i don't know
i was forced to go to russia to moscow by my leadership by kgb maybe it was possible better
to go to police and talk they explain or just hire a lawyer but in the soviet period it was
impossible i had to surrender and fulfill what i was ordered to do okay konstantin so
you are an expert and you've been very kind to explain to me the major differences in the
mentality of russians versus american mentality and different ways of thinking completely on many
issues so let's let's before we get into the politics let's take a look into the russian mind
by talking about your book on uh an americans guide to russian women because we saw with the
me too movement we saw for instance eric schneidermann the new york attorney general in the news
this guy was completely corrupt he's suing climate deniers full-blown a progressive agenda
it turns out schneidermann is a hypocrite and resigns when it's revealed that he abused women he
dated so let's to start understanding the russian mentality let's talk about your book an americans
guide to russian women before we talk about the politics now the first chapter is titled sexual
harassment please explain why russian women want to be sexually harassed because their mind totally
differs uh just in russia sexual harassment uh is following when a beat woman tried try to rape her
leave some scars uh which can be proved that is sexual harassment in russia nothing more
and if you give woman some pleasant addresses if you say how beautiful she is how beautiful is
her breast uh and kisses her hand and puts her hand on her knee it's not sexual harassment at all
it's very pleasant it's normal flirt with the woman in russia when a boss uh just uh or expresses
some sexual interest into his female subordinate she's happy because traditionally uh there is
lack of men in russia and women are starving for men's attention so just i would advise american
men to marry russian women they will never accuse you of sexual harassment okay well you said also
in the book russian women are tired of feminism why is that uh because uh in fact there is very
few feminists in russia in russia when a woman says that she's a feminist are we laughing at her
saying oh you're a good boyfriend get a good boyfriend and all your feminists will go out
traditionally russian women are worshiping men uh respecting men in russia for example it is
impossible for a wife to accuse her husband in rape so so called rape and sex there is no such
law in russia why so because russian common vice says the following you have married your husband
you need to give him some pleasure if you don't do this what kind of wife are you so why do you
also said russian women actually want to be the weaker sex not equal where does that come from
uh yes it it comes from our soviet history uh in 1917 as you know uh there was a revolution
in the soviet union and uh according to the the ideology of newcomers the communists um men and
women became the same were declared the same women were forced to to to do a hard man's job
especially during the war uh second world war when many men died after the war so just when
communist period um finished they wanted to return to what it was before the revolution
when men were kissing women's hands when they were putting quotes on their shoulders when they were
just go telling them go just go ahead as a lady but since the time for the hundred years the world
world has changed in europe and the west men are not kissing hands to women anymore and not
putting quotes on their shoulders and russian women feel very much disappointed with this
they want to be women okay well you're starting to give us a good insight into the russian history
and different mentality we're going to get into the uh poisonings the uh molar probe
butan sanctions right after the break we'll be back with former kgb lieutenant colonel
konstantrin prehobaginski we'll be right back on info wars
it's a no-brainer a big burky water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter
that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original
most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcn listeners receive five percent
off ceramic filter systems using code gcn call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters
dot com that's 187799 burky health care reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable
insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the
health care system has become a challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty
health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping
neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements
don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super
blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce
bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new
purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay
clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay
clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle
features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver
immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable helps stop the spread of toxins and
stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's
info wars life dot com we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with
our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through
mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical
defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is
the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as
close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you
want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay
as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to
reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to
your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our
bodies with z shield info wars life dot com fueling your body is hard work that's why we've
introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars
life daily digestive pack today you're listening to the alex jones show
he aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side
you're listening to alex jones i see your hair is burning welcome back to info wars the alex
jones show joel gilbert coming to you right from the left coast uh we're getting back into our
conversation with former kgb lieutenant colonel constantin piravajinsky if you want to ask some
questions later in the show it's going to be 1877789 alex 1877892539 uh we want to talk now with
constantin about the sanctions against russia uh i understand alexander lid venenko was murdered in
london in 2006 he was poisoned was he a friend of yours yes we never met but we were speaking a lot
over the phone uh yes he was friend of mine and i was very sorry when he died yes when he was poisoned
was he in fear that he would be killed and was he worried that the kgb was going to try to get rid
of him yes he was telling me that he was afraid of course he uh foresaw it to some extent he told
me that he was afraid why didn't uh pudin or the russians just forgive him and forget about him
tell me about the mentality of the russians why wouldn't they just give up on him on him on
lid venenko yes uh well lid venenko was very active uh in media he was talking a lot about pudin uh
some a lot of negative information maybe he has irritated him so just at that time he was not
keeping silence and was very very active in his public uh writings and maybe speaking
well we just had the poisoning in england of the x5 surge skripal and that resulted in sanctions
being placed by england united states and other allies what effect the do sanctions have on the
russian people and on putin are they afraid of sanctions i don't know i don't know but i have
too far from this problem but sovitin has always been living under these are those uh these are that
kind of sanctions remember the section of skokom soldiers is something uh naturals something
not new at all for russians uh to say afraid or not usually russians are not so much afraid of
an exterior threat and does it make russian history does does it make putin more popular
or less popular when they have sanctions oh i don't know but judging by russian media it makes
more popular yes i see things the russians have does the russian does russia the russian government
have the same concept in russia of forgiveness as we have in the west and in america would they
forgive and forget about someone who's a traitor or do they always remember
but i don't know about such a conception such a concept for forgiveness here i don't know
as there's nothing to compare with so but i have no comment about this respect i don't
know this problem at all okay let's talk about the steel dossier that i think i sent you and
uh this is the dossier with the information that they're used against trump to obtain phisa warrants
and spy on the trump campaign uh you told me it was just foolish speculation why wasn't this
something that was not a uh intelligence document uh why was it taken seriously and what did you
think about it i as far as i remember it shows me right there is only speculations no direct
facts no direct facts no just um some secret facts only the open information so i didn't
take it seriously it looks like speculation i was even laughing uh when i was reading it
okay and you wrote the book called new trojan horse about uh americans of russian descent
uh especially working in the russian orthodox church uh did the cold war actually end
and what is the extent of russian influence in the us today i don't know what is the extent
of russian influence today in this country because i don't know i am not just dwelling the
life of a public person i'm not visiting press conferences and and so on uh but um
um of course traditionally there is there always has been some influence what about russian orthodox
church now russia is the country which is emphasizing christianity it's very characteristic
for russian for russian mind too is christian for example um i might give you a very interesting
episode regarding this combination ktb maybe practice ktb mind and russian orthodox valis
whenever ktb school over 40 years ago um we were asked the following question what will you do
if your father turns out to be a foreign spy and i said i will try to stop somehow his spying
but i will never betray my father i will never report to the authorities about his espionage
because parents are more important than law more important than state because law can be
mistaken laws are taken by maybe sinful and mortal people who can be bribed deceived and so on
but parents are given to you by lord you did not vote for you want visit parents and my answer
did not bring any help to me so just in russia okay let's play uh let's play i want to get your
comment on the video of obama talking to medvedev let's play that for for uh about 30 seconds this
is obama telling medvedev that he'll be more flexible after the election and i want to know
what's going on here a few months ago when you were asked what's the biggest geopolitical
threat facing america you said russia not al-qaeda you said russia in the 1980s are now calling
to ask for their foreign policy back because okay let's cut the let's cut the video that's good
first of all what was going on here with obama talking to medvedev obama is a pro-russian voice
in american government were there pro-russian voices and are there in the kremlin and what is
obama up to here with medvedev and i think as a former as a former just consultant advisor
in intelligence mostly on china but also was a speech writer to the head of our
scientific and technical intelligence this short talk is not enough to make any conclusion
as far as i know the situation in these high spheres is changing so quickly so drastically
that one episode mostly doesn't mean anything we don't know the surrounding circumstances
it's too few information just a piece of sand drop of sand of information which is not enough
for to make any conclusions well do you have pro are there pro-american pro-american voices in the
kremlin today like we have with obama that was pro-russia when he was in office are there pro-american
supporters i i don't know of course but i think then today's in today's general there are no such
people and i and yes and they were but now they are not it's politics of today's russia
as far as i know but because i have no special information and no direct facts i have been
separated from all that kind of reality okay what do you see in today's a democrat party in america
where they're going more and more toward socialist and communist point of view what are they missing
in terms of understanding the reality of socialism oh it's i don't know it either i'm just separated
socialism uh just uh i have a feeling that socialism is now reviving the whole world
but i don't know enough facts about it if this problem should be uh studied but as a historian
i'm my first first profession history i am especially japanese history and language but in
the world history too as a historian i feel that socialism is coming back the the age of democracy
is finishing many people think so too but i have no facts to prove it so let us see let's me uh
okay well look we'll be right back with some more you got any questions for constant it's
eight seven seven seven eight nine alex we'll be right back with one more segment with constant in
frank and north carolina thanks for holding so long go ahead yeah i just have to say something
man it seems like every time i turn on your broadcast you're bragging it just gets old man
i'm gonna shut you down right now okay we're taking calls about your nomination do you understand
they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down do you understand i'm ringing
the alarm if that was happening to anybody else i'd be freaked out i mean what's it gonna take
us being shut down is that what you want frank you know what alex i put him on pause again hey
frank do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear we're under attack
we need your help as much begging as i do we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this
i'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards you understand i need
your help frank i need your help frank go to info wars store dot com right now and help fund
the info do you understand i need your help frank free press needs your help frank info wars life
and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winner sun a
revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winner sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch
is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you
want the best at an extremely low price this is it winner sun is the result of our pursuit of the
best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years but the result as
verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world
read the facts at info wars life dot com about winner sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin
d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something the
globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-2533139
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural
disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars
life selects storeable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better
place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life selects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great
for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you
and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life selects storeable foods
western europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down
over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gays you'll get
six months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn
and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a
professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars
psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the
most hated news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
the world is a dangerous place not because of evil but because of those who look on
and do nothing from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show this is info wars i'm joel gilbert coming to you again right
from the left coast don't forget to get my new dvd trump the art of the insult in the alex jones
info wars store uh we're still talking with former kgb lieutenant colonel constantin pre
bajinsky uh constantin what can you tell us about the way of thinking of latimer putin
what are his values and how does he approach statecraft well i don't know but as he just
of the same age with me he is only one year older and we have passed almost the same part of our
biography i think maybe i could could understand him well just why russian people are supporting him
because he's he's devoting himself to a national interest of russia which most of the soviet
leaders did not do for example lenin was devoted to um the world communism Stalin yes he just uh
was very uh just in the very patriotic and nationalistic though he was a very cruel person but still
russian people respect him because he has done something for the soviet union uh to in order
to make this country very strong and uh what about other leaders khrushchev he was just a weak reader
he was also thinking about communism but not about his country the same about brezhnev uh
the same about gorbachev uh yeltsin was a very weak um leader and he was doing nothing for his
for his country that's why i think russian people are supporting putin is putin someone who
supports traditional values over he is of course he has as far as i know as far as i read he has
proclaimed the preservation of traditional family values russia's what is it about the
russian mentality the russian political worldview that you think americans and the american government
don't understand uh just america and russia uh fortunately unfortunately in the nation psychology
very far from each other uh because um russia and state russia as a country was formed by russian
orthodox church if there was no uh baptism of russia in kiv by prince vladimir uh there was no
russia there would be no russia america uh was founded by protestants and protestants mine
protestants mine and and orthodox minds are very far from each other for example in america if you
have a lot of money you're respected in russia you're most disrespect like all our oligarchs
in america if you have a lot of money people think say that oh a thing says that god loves him
in russia in russia in the same situation uh we say oh it's devil to be a bit tempting him
maybe this money uh will uh gained notice in the quite just way so uh so called which
so called values are very much different and one more thing um russia has suffered a foreign
occupation uh has suffered wars in some territory for very many times for hundreds of years america
has never suffered enemy in its own territory it makes some it brings some nuances uh of difference
some different nuances in understanding war by russians and americans okay i want to ask you
about uh russia's alliance with iran let's take a quick look at an excerpt from the art of the
insult donald trump talking about the iran deal during the uh campaign well i don't know we're
making a deal with iran and we're fighting iran in yemen when you make the deal aren't you supposed
to sort of solve everything i mean here's a guy goes on a bicycle to go on a bicycle race he's 73
years old he's in a bicycle and he's got all this stuff on he's got the whole deal the company's
the whole deal the helmet a quick spin through the swiss alps following negotiations on iran's
nuclear policy went awry for u.s secretary of state john carrey police he falls he breaks his leg
during the negotiation i swear to you i will never be in a bicycle race as long as i'm present
okay konstantin what is the uh traditional relationship between uh russia and iran they've
helped them build uh nuclear uh you know plants in in iran and they support them in the middle east
what is the connection from the time that you were in the kgb till today uh speaking more
generally russia and iran simply has maintained very long uh relations for a very long period
of history maybe for south for uh thousand years while russia is existing if you go to the muslim
kremlin to his armor chamber the museum of ancient weapons and ancient just um jubilee you will see
the presence by iranian sharks and russian kings to russians one dating back to maybe
11th to 11th 14th century so this the history of russian and persian iranian relations is very
long it was not so friendly of course but what about today i don't know about his this um just
iranian involvement in atomic weapons because i'm not informed about that but still the very
fact that russia and iran are very very long partners long time partners it tells of course
it brings some influence into their relations today okay and finally let's talk about the uh
the muller probe uh investigating donald trump based on this russian influence uh dossier
how do you think uh the kremlin putin feel about this investigation are they upset that they're
the subject of investigation for interfering in elections or are they laughing every day when they
see uh the american government under such siege based on this whole theory of russians getting
involved with the trump campaign how are they looking at this from their point of view do you
think uh of course they can only guess can only guess of course because they don't don't don't
know anything but maybe they laugh too because uh it is normal work of just of intelligence um just
so just um i think their reaction may be very different kinds uh but still uh one can say that
some reaction some reflection of this reality in kremlin is very serious today kremlin and russian
general has got very uh very skilled uh specialist in many countries i feel it it was the soviet
unit it was not so so today specials in america uh in japan and china the russians ones are better
than they were in the soviet period okay uh let's take one call from uh dr kelly in uh
northern california has one question for constantin go ahead uh dr kelly hey thank you so much for
taking my call and for all of your work um i discovered a copy of the king james bible
translated into russian and during times of high tension over the last three or four years
i would pray and fast and put this on and listen to it and hope that if anyone else was listening
that they could hear it too and i really uh appreciate the efforts of our countries to
befriend each other you know we're brothers um and that we are one nation under god indivisible
okay thank you thank you for the call constantin is russia becoming more religious and going back
more toward traditional values while america is becoming less traditional and more socialist
yes russia i don't know about america because i'm not so much deep in israel but russia really
is returning to christianity which is a great contradiction uh with europe with west in general
so i think it's it determines the way of thinking of russians and i can feel it reading russian
media the christian approach to the world yes it is really something vital something important
for russians today it's almost as if the all the work during the cold war where the kgb was trying
to infiltrate and influence the left in america to cause america to be uh more socialist worked
and america's influence during the cold war to cause russia to be more traditional that also
worked so we're switching roles it's very fascinating uh good no constantin prevegencki thank you so
much for being with us for all the insight uh this is info wars you'll be back with uh more from
the shooting in uh the school everyone thanks for being with us this is info wars the scientists at
info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support discover
the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the most potent forms of tumeric
available tumeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied urbans today
it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus
peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility
mobility joint function immune system and so much more regular tumeric root from the store
only contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our tumeric root extract contains
over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as
spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support try bodies
today at info wars life dot com or call us at 188-253-3139 you know if i tried to sit here and tell
you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life they take hours michael zx plus and now
is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the
mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the
preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great
with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune
gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality
silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars
store dot com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people
that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part
of the second american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
