We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
We are broadcasting worldwide.
I am your host Alex Jones.
We're going to be here for the next four hours.
And then Owen Troyer and Roger Stone will kick off the always informative war room.
David Knight just completed his real news transmission at 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. central every day.
Iran and Israel are in a state of war.
When you're firing missiles at each other and bombing each other and killing each other, you're at war.
And the supreme dictator over in Iran said that Trump will be worm food and will soon die.
And of course we're rolling footage of 22 rockets firing into Israel from the Golan Heights.
Coming up in 15 minutes, Laura Loomer is joining us from the Golan Heights.
Probably should have told the producers that when I came in this morning.
She's in Israel.
So we have some of the reports that she sent us and followed from there.
And they basically the exact spot where those rockets came in yesterday.
So we'll be talking to her Israel responded by firing 60 rockets and overnight strikes on Syria.
Russia's Ministry of Defense said 28 Israeli F-15 F-16 planes were involved the attack.
And of course that comes right after Israel.
The night before bombed the air base south of Damascus.
So this is what you call a war and it's escalating daily.
Now MSM is blaming Trump for this for pulling out of the Iran deal.
The Iran deal was a fraud.
That said, at the same time Iran and Israel have been spoiling for a new war.
Since the last two times through Hezbollah firing rockets into Israel.
Israel has invaded now Islamic held formerly Christian Lebanon.
And the Quds forces and the Hezbollah militia have defeated the high tech Israeli tanks.
And so they've just been spoiling to get into a giant war with each other.
And forget taking sides here.
This is going on.
But when Obama first got into office for four or five years, this was also going on.
We're going to bear to blame Trump, but we're going to be looking at every angle of that.
And who really helped escalate the crisis in the Middle East with John McCain, Obama, Hillary and their whole false Arab spring putting radical jihadis in charge.
Again though, that said, the other big issue is the hostages coming back from North Korea after Pompeo went over and got them the new secretary of state, the newly minted secretary of state.
They're now saying that Reuters is saying the word is has been officially announced within days.
Trump will announce that Singapore is the site of this big meeting to officially end the Korean War.
This is really, really positive news.
They would have given Obama 5000 Nobel Peace Prizes for this and said he was given a peace prize and then launched seven different wars.
And now we've got a new lie from McCain.
So you have something called a memory.
So I got up this morning and I saw the headline that in McCain's new book, The New York Times has exclusive, that John McCain says that he gave the dossier to the FBI, who then promptly gave it to the media, the fake dossier.
But we know it goes back further than that.
The FBI was financing the dossier.
So it's a circle of intrigue.
But I remembered McCain saying last year and this year that he never did that. In fact, I pulled the articles up where he denied being involved with the dossier.
He is just a congenital, cheating five, globalist, al-Qaeda, ISIS supporting total maximum globalist trader.
He is an absolute enemy of this country.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
Compared with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Speaking of liars, as God is going to cut down, John McCain for the first year denied involvement with the fake dossier that was just a collection of made-up lies
and taxpayer money paid by the FBI and Justice Department to their wives and husbands at Fusion GPS to produce the piece of fiction.
Then it came out last week that they're still paying Fusion GPS.
Now it's a total of $50 million.
Of course, John McCain came out and said he would do it again. That's Fox News saying it was his duty to release the dossier to the FBI.
But I remember Comey in the news a year ago, right when he got fired, remember?
Saying no, no, McCain didn't give us the dossier.
But again, they play games because there's been a bunch of dossiers.
I think there's been a bunch of Star Trek movies. They're fiction.
There's been a lot of Star Wars movies. There's been a lot of Winnie the Pooh movies.
There's been a lot of gun smoke TV episodes. They're not real.
So they play this game.
Now that said, we've got the big news of the tit-for-tat beginning.
Trump two days ago gives the speech, says we're pulling out of the Iran deal. That is a bad deal.
And I understand why the president's doing it to negotiate a better deal like he's done in North Korea,
which so far I'm tacitly applauding and thinks really a great, great thing.
Not that I trust Kim Jong-un as far as anybody can throw him.
And his poor scene, corpulent circumference.
But that said, now, Trump makes that announcement.
Israel, a couple of hours later, blows up an Iranian air base,
killing at least nine Iranians that came into the country to fight the ISIS al Qaeda forces
that Hillary and Obama and Saudi Arabia put into the country.
That's an incontrovertible fact. So Iran's not the bad guy there.
They're the bad guy grabbing our ships.
They're the bad guys saying your president will be dead and worm food yesterday.
They're the bad guys threatening to blow Israel up routinely.
They're the bad guys funding missiles being brought in in Lebanon to Israel's border.
Iran doesn't take any Palestinians. Saudi Arabia doesn't take any Palestinians.
They're total hypocrites. And Iran is an Islamic dictatorship.
Yeah, they have elections, but the Ayatollah, it's a genetic dictatorship.
They're all, quote, related to Muhammad. That's what the Shiites are.
They're related to Muhammad to even be a teacher. Why these guys all look like clones.
They're 19% of Islam and it is a Shiite Islamic state.
And so they're chanting death to America and all the rest of this.
I know they have elections, but the Ayatollahs decide how to four or five people who can run.
So it's like the Communist Party in China.
The Central Committee, the Politburo, they decide a couple hundred people
who are permanent communists and the communists pass power back down to them.
They decide who then can be a president.
That's not a real republic. That's not a democracy either.
What it is is a political group.
An oligarchy is the best term for it that has a dictatorship.
So a moronic video of the national television, state-run media in Iran burning American flags
and just basically engaging in very, very, very primitive, simian-like, monkey-like behavior.
But don't think we don't behave like that as well when a war starts.
And, you know, I made a point last night in a special report and I saw a lot of commenters,
not the majority, but a large portion, saying, oh, Alex, you're full of prunes.
The president doesn't control the media. They're his enemies.
The president in time of war has no control over anything.
And so I got in this morning and got to look at all the news and I forgot to pull it,
but anybody can, and I guess the crew can do it, each president reissues it since about Kennedy's time,
that during a civil emergency, during a financial emergency, during an economic emergency,
during a military emergency, all the major national media starts reading from a script
that's issued by the president and by the continuity of government boards that have been set up.
You've also heard the emergency alert system that breaks in. There's also central systems
that can fully take over every major transmission, including the Internet.
They didn't have that power until Obama completed it in about 2011.
The headlines were Obama's kill switch, Internet kill switch, now in place,
where they can forcibly redirect the entire Internet, every website, every phone, every screen,
just like you get Amber Alerts that break in on your phone or Hurricane Alerts
or tornado alerts or earthquake alerts, it can take over your phone, take over your computer,
take over the AM radio station, take over the broadcast TV station, take over everything
and serve you local messages, regional messages.
Yes, yes, in 2011, kill switch, Obama administration fears Egypt-style revolt in the U.S.
It's a Paul Joseph Watson article and it links to Fox News covering it.
We first told you about the kill switch years before they were trying to put it in,
but by 2011, it was in to take full, total control over the Internet
and everything connected to it.
That's what the smart meters are about and the smart appliances.
It's not just your local radio station or TV station or cable station.
It's now your appliances. It's now your in-home cameras.
It's now your smart phone.
And so I've talked about the fact that Trump made the announcement we're pulling out of the deal.
I said, well, I'm tacitly giving him benefit of the doubt.
I don't like it, but we'll see. He's been right about everything else.
We know the globalists don't like you. We know the country's coming back.
We know he brought Korea to the table.
So I said, I'll give him a tacit green light in my own personal support.
But I said, what if Israel kicks off something or what if Iran kicks off something?
And our media started saying, the state run media, that's what CNN is.
Trump hasn't gotten full control of it yet.
Started saying, oh my God, Israel's going to be attacked by Iran any minute.
And then it was Israel attacked Iranian base in Syria hours later.
And then Iran fired missiles back in into the Golan Heights out of Lebanon and Syria.
And now that's kicked off.
And now Israel bombed back and now Laura Loomer is coming up in the next segment from the ground in the Golan Heights
where the rockets came down last night.
The Intrepid reporter Laura Loomer, so she's coming up.
And her videos are up on her site. They're also up on infowars.com right now.
We'll play some of those.
But that's how this thing unravels and gets out of control so quickly.
We'll also get into the clip with Trump praising the good side of Kim Jong-un releasing these American hostages.
That's certainly good news.
We have so much to cover today that we'll be breaking down.
That Drudge also warns Trump is opening up a Pandora's Box of censorship with crocheted on fake news because that can be spun back.
Absolutely.
There's another report here.
England is set to pass rules where you get six months in prison for criticizing homosexuality or Islam or anything else.
So that's the total authoritarianism already in Germany and Sweden now coming to the U.K.
And then of course to the U.S. and the colleges.
Over 200 colleges have set up these boards where if someone just has a gesture or you think they don't like you, if they're white, they get in trouble.
That's like that Beavis and Butthead, they had a new season, had for 20 years and not having it.
And I just saw it the night.
It just happened to be surfing television.
Beavis and Butthead think a girl is sexually harassing them telepathically.
And they get before the judge, she's going to throw the girl in jail.
But then they say the judge is raping them as well.
And actually an EEOC complaining against me, it says I never said anything sexual, but they thought it.
It was telepathic.
So that's the new thing is telepathic rape.
Attention business owners and independent contractors.
This is a money-saving message from Tax Mediation Services.
If your business owes $20,000 or more in taxes, we can help you today, right now.
Listen, dealing with the IRS is no picnic.
It's an intimidating and extremely stressful process and you don't want to go it alone.
Our attorneys know every law, every tax break and every possible opportunity to help you resolve and reduce your tax debt.
And if you owe more than $20,000, you may be at the top of their hit list.
So don't take your tax debt lightly because it will not go away on its own.
The IRS can seize your bank accounts, your home and even shut down your business.
Call our tax experts today at 1-800-261-9818 and let us deal with the IRS while you focus on your business.
That's 1-800-261-9818.
Again, 800-261-9818.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to go to the library, to go to the church.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSamBook.com.
KillingUncleSamBook.com.
KillingUncleSamBook.com
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now, that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars life-selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars life-selects storable foods.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, independent investigative reporter Laura Loomer is in the go-on heights, but she's getting to a more secure location before we talk to her via telephone.
Here in just a moment, she filed a bunch of video reports that are on infowars.com right now and on her Twitter.
But first, let's look at some of the successes of President Trump in the last year and a half.
Everyone thinks so, but I wouldn't ever say it.
You know what I want to do? I want to get it finished.
The prize I want is victory for the world.
The prize I want is victory for the world.
This is the heart of 1776.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host Alex Jones.
Move this damn way.
We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag.
InfoWars helped to fuel the rumor that President Obama is an ISIS supporter.
It's been a cozy relationship from the beginning.
I will not let you down. You'll be very, very impressed, I hope, and I think we'll be speaking a lot.
Another Trump in Alex Jones.
This means that Donald Trump will be the 45th President of the United States.
Waging war on corruption is Alex Jones.
But the corporate media told us he didn't want to be president.
They told us he wouldn't run again for reelection.
McCain told us he didn't give the dossier to the FBI.
McCain denies being Buzzfeed's Trump dossier source.
No, he just gave it to the FBI, and they gave it to him.
He didn't do anything.
Trying to bring Iran to the table like we're bringing North Korea to the table is a different trick, though.
You've got Israel hitting that base, claiming they were aiming missiles at Israel.
They're firing missiles back. Israel's bombing them.
It's a real mess, but that deal was a real mess.
We're going to get Laura Loomer's take in Israel on this, in the Golan Heights, where the rockets were landing last night.
And where the air raid sirens were taking place.
Because this is a war that has already kicked off.
This is conflict with the Iranian flash Saudi Arabian Civil War.
It's happening inside Islam, spilling over into Israel.
These are just the lighter weapons that are going in. Iran's got heavy missiles, thousands of them.
So how soon until, oops, a ship gets sunk.
How soon until the tit for tat escalates very, very quickly.
Right now Israel is shooting down most of these incoming missiles that are medium size with its iron dome system.
We'll be talking to Laura Loomer this segment and the next here in just a moment.
First off, supporting this broadcast is critical.
The Nazi collaborator, George Soros, through his different outlets funding lawsuits against us.
We have Hillary Clinton trying to get us shut down.
We have major publications calling for us to be shut down.
But we will defeat them.
We've already gotten nine of the 16 lawsuits thrown out.
And if you'll simply buy great products at infowarstore.com that you and your family absolutely need.
It's a win-win, a non-zero sum game, a 360 win.
So I want you to try our incredibly popular fluoride free, colloidal silver, iodine fortified, adult and children's toothpaste.
We have the mouthwash that's fortified as well, as well as the immune gargle and three different sizes.
Boy, is that a powerful product.
It's got so many other uses that we don't even put on there.
You know, read the individual reviews, five-star thousands of them.
It's a new combo pack, so there's no reviews there if you're watching on TV.
It has free shipping as well, not just 50% off.
And also, the ultimate turmeric formula.
Bodies, 95% curcuminin level.
Biddy competitors have a 3%.
It's just joke level.
It's just a bunch of powdered crud.
This is concentrated curcuminin and then five other super antioxidants and anti-inflammatories.
An example is my wife, who's a big tennis player and a big exercise person.
And since she had the baby, she stopped exercising as much and her hips seized up and she went to chiropractor.
She went to massages.
She went to everything.
She was looking to have a surgery.
And then I just said, take a crap ton of bodies for two weeks.
And she goes, well, almost all the pain's gone.
But I think it's maybe that I stopped drinking and she barely drinks anyways.
And I think maybe it's I'm getting more sleep and I'm like, it's the turmeric sweetheart.
But I'm telling the story as it happens.
So I got her to start shoveling that down two weeks ago.
And magically, you know, one of the crew members here had gout.
I said, take bodies. Boom.
He'd already been on medicine.
Wasn't helping.
And I'm not saying it's a replacement for medicine.
I'm not saying, you know, that you got to have air to live or that you need vitamin C to live.
The FDA says you're not supposed to say that.
So I cannot tell you need air or water to live or that you'll die without vitamin C, even though you will.
Or that you'll die without iodine.
It's a fact that IQs are dropping because iodine deficiency.
Who cares about the fact?
Just, you know, die.
Be stupid.
I agree with the FDA.
So you do not need oxygen to live.
Now, please don't strangle yourself or you'll die.
But again, these statements are not approved by the FDA.
I want you to try super blue 50% off all super blue products.
I want you to try the ultimate turmeric form of 50% off order today.
Now, if you continue to fund this, if you continue to spread the articles and the videos and pray for us, we'll be here.
If you don't stand with us, the globalists will be successful and shut us down.
But you're standing with us and I really want to thank you all.
But please think about supporting InfoWars today.
Now we're going to break in a few minutes, but I want Laura Loomer, who again has filed reports right up there in the Golan Heights from the mountaintops.
You know, she's now in a safer location in the Golan.
And she's again got her Twitter account we're going to put on screen for if you want to follow that.
But there she is yesterday and this morning at the Golan Heights at Laura Loomer is how you can follow her on Twitter.
Laura, wow, I didn't know you were in Israel.
So I started seeing your reports getting filed in the middle of the night.
So I hope you're being safe there.
Yeah, Jim, my best.
It's been a wild night.
I've been in Israel for about a week or so now and I'm going to be here probably for the rest of the month just reporting really on the embassy move.
But last night I was sleeping and around three in the morning I was woken up by the missile attack.
The missile attack that was fired by Iranian forces out of Syria went right past my hotel on the Galilee near Golan Heights.
And so I heard it all and, you know, if you watch the video that I posted on my Twitter and my Periscope, you can actually see some of the missiles being intercepted by the iron dome with little flashes in the sky.
And you can hear the sound of the fighter jets flying by as well.
Look, here's the deal. Everybody knows I'm not anti-Israel.
I like Israel at the same time.
I don't like the Iranian dictators like the Iranian people.
But Trump makes this announcement and then Israel bombs this military base here in Israel.
Maybe you have inside baseball why they did that.
And then now this tit for tat.
I mean, I think there's a war really pretty much started between Israel and Iran right now.
Is that a fair statement?
Yeah, I mean, I've been saying for weeks now that I think that it's inevitable.
I think there's going to be war between Israel and Iran.
And I think that a lot of the it's not just Israel, right?
We've seen the behavior on behalf of the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.
I mean, coming out just kind of out of nowhere,
all of a sudden saying that Israel has a right to exist,
which is something that no Muslim leader has ever said, right?
I mean, that's totally...
Stay there. The sky's breaking up a bit. We're coming right back.
Yeah, I mean, war has already started between Iran and Israel.
I mean, it's happened here.
We'll be right back, ladies and gentlemen. Stay with us.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you,
there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products,
we have it in fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
The second one-one, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering m4store.com
and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Pican, Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot
and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks
for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotruce Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks
who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots,
help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's bigger problems going on
and if we can get our houses in order
and be good to each other and ourselves,
we'll take our country back.
Thank you.
Sorry.
Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Hi, Laura Lummer joins us.
Her Skype failed, so she's joining us via the phone from the Golan Heights right there by the Galilee where the rockets came in last night.
And, you know, here's my bottom line.
The optics are bad.
Trump says we're pulling out of the Iran deal.
And then I see all over the news Israel bracing for Iranian attack and then Israel hits this air base that kills a bunch of Iranians.
And who knows who else just south of Damascus in Syria's capital.
And then they fire rockets back in and Israel attacks that.
And then we don't really hear from Israel much about why they did it other than there were missiles aimed at Israel there.
But by that extension they can attack in the main country of Iran and kick off the big war.
So again, I want to get Laura's take on that what the Israeli she's talking to what the military she's saying are saying and what the inside scoop is.
And then as she said, all the signs are there with the crown prince is running Saudi Arabia recognizing Israel saying he's going to let Christian churches and Jewish mosque or Jewish synagogues be right next to mosque.
And just all these statements, a major political realignment with Israel, the United States and Saudi Arabia against Iran and this whole situation in Syria.
It just sounds like the beginning of potential World War three Laura Loomer.
Yeah, no, I agree with that.
And I apologize for my sake.
Hey, that's not your fault.
That's the technology.
Yeah, it's really hard to get service here as you can imagine.
But yeah, look, I think that this has been in the work for some time now.
I've been reporting for the past few months that I predict that there was going to be war with Iran, especially because of Saudi Arabia is very random, strange and misplaced connection with Israel lately.
And, you know, that's just something that Muslim nations, especially Wahhabist nations don't do.
They don't really recognize the state of Israel, right?
They're very anti-Semitic.
They're very, you know, anti-Jew, anti-Israel really inherently.
It's kind of embedded in their culture.
And so I think that Saudi Arabia is just kind of praying Israel like a fiddle so that they can both, you know, kind of split the bill for attacking Iran.
And then if Saudi Arabia and Israel go to war with Iran, then I feel like that would inherently draw the U.S. into the war as well.
So I think that it's kind of like a little dam to engage Trump in a war with Iran.
We saw in Netanyahu's presentation recently in which he pretty much, you got the vibe that he was really speaking to Trump, right?
Speaking to America about how Obama lied about the Iran deal.
And Iran lied about the Iran deal because, you know, Assad agents went in and they carried out this very covert operation.
It skates with thousands of documents about the Iranian nuclear program.
So I think it's inevitable.
The tensions are rising.
And I was on the Golden Heights today speaking with IDF soldiers.
I was on the weather on the border speaking with IDF soldiers as well.
And they have been preparing for this for a while.
They tell me, and they think that things will be very hectic for the next week or two, but they're hoping that they will be under control.
And especially given the fact that today or last night, the IDF did take out most or they're claiming at least most of the Iranian military installations located in Syria.
Now, this could easily escalate, though.
I hope that it de-escalates and a new deal can be made that's better.
It's obviously this that was just a ceasefire a few years ago from the low intensity conflict that was still going on.
Of course, it's high intensity if you get killed, but militarily it's seen as low intensity conflict, firing rockets and bombing each other occasionally back and forth.
But now this major realignment and what's happening in Iran, talking about launching full out war, attacking U.S. ships.
If they attack a U.S. ship, Trump is going to hit Iran very, very hard.
Iran says they're going to have a total commitment back and this could explode into a major league hot war within hours.
Yeah, no, I completely agree.
But it's not only just, you know, like, physical attacks.
Iran said that they will...
There was a report today, I saw in the Daily Mail, about how Iran may be carrying out cyber attacks against Western businesses to retaliate against Trump and the United States from withdrawing from the Iran deal, of course.
So I think that a cyber attack could be even more devastating really than a bombing because I don't really feel like the United States is really prepared for a massive cyber attack on electrical grids and infrastructure, right?
I mean, we're always talking about bombing, you know, an actual physical military attack, but nobody really ever talks about how devastating a large scale cyber attack could be.
Well, this could go nuclear very quickly.
My sources a decade ago told me that Iran had at least five nuclear weapons, atomic bombs, but they didn't have delivery system.
And then you notice that when Netanyahu gave those presentations, which Iran admits are real documents, they're just older, that they had a goal of five weapons.
And you look at all the castings and all the documents and videos, they've achieved atomic weapons is what I've been told, and the real concern you keep seeing is from Netanyahu and from Trump was the ICBMs, the fast delivery systems that can hit Europe as well already.
So I think that's why Israel and others are so...
Saudi Arabia are so concerned because I was told by very credible sources and have been on record ten years ago that Iran has five weapons.
Yeah, no, and that's the discussion that's really taking place here in Israel as well.
And that's also very concerning because, as you know, the embassy move is taking place in four days.
And the aggression is not only now directed towards Israel, but it's also, you know, really directed towards Americans.
And there's going to be a lot of Americans in Israel and the U.S. delegation, you know, many members from Trump's administration here this week for the official embassy move.
And, you know, the 70th anniversary of Israel's independence.
And so, you know, of course that gives the United States and Israel even more motives and more, you know, more concern when it comes to eliminating, you know, these Iranian military bases in Syria and really just making sure that they are denuclearized.
Well, I know this, six years ago our own military told Obama no in backing Saudi Arabia in a different faction then that's been taken out reportedly now to overturn Syria and give it to basically Wahhabist al-Qaeda folks.
And then Syria did agree, and then this came out later, we first broke it here from Colonel Shaffer and others, they did agree to then once ISIS and al-Qaeda were kicked out to hold elections and that Assad would leave.
So I think a lot of the pressure now from Trump is the fact that we haven't been hearing that from Assad now.
So I don't know if Assad is going to abide by that deal. Any word on that in Israel?
I can't really speak to that now, but, you know, I would agree with you on that. You know, I have the same feeling as you do the same concern, but really the focus right now, you know, it's oddly calm.
I mean, regardless of the fact that there were these attacks last night, Israel, I mean, Israeli people in the IDF, they seem to be very calm.
I mean, the people in the Golan Heights today, they sent their kids to school, people went to work, it was still open, it wasn't shut down.
Sure, well, that's good news, but I'm just concerned this tit for tat back and forth or the ships there in the Persian Gulf or something could trigger very, very quickly because this is basically a state of war between Israel and Iran with the U.S. being sucked into.
And I know this, though, I've never, in the three or four years I've been following your work, I've never seen you cover anything from Israel.
So I guess you did predict this a few months ago. I guess you traveled there because you want to be in the middle of this to report on it.
So you got a lot of courage being right there in the middle of it.
Yeah, no, definitely. And you are right. This is a tit for tat. I mean, I was on the Lebanon border with Israel yesterday and they did have Israeli gunships in the water controlling, you know, because they have Iranian proxies, you know, has a lot right across the Lebanon.
And so this could get nuclear and it could become very disastrous very quickly.
And, you know, what may appear to be calm, you are correct.
All right, well, listen, Laura Loomer, we're going to continue to check in with you as things unfold.
Hopefully we don't have to check in with you because hopefully this doll de-escalates.
But right now there is a state of war going on.
We're trying to end the war on the Korean Peninsula, but the hostage is coming back. I got the video and audio and my breakdown of that on the other side. Will Trump get the peace prize?
We'll discuss this right ahead. Be safe, Laura Loomer.
We can follow her videos from the ground at Laura Loomer on Twitter.
Follow us at Real Alex Jones and at Prison Planet. Stay with us.
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at m4warsstore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver Immune Gargle, only available at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShieldInfoWarsLife.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L-Tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Is the U.S. involved with any procuring of weapons, transfer of weapons, buying, selling, anyhow transferring weapons to Turkey out of Libya?
To Turkey?
It is a big idea. A new world order.
How is it that this organization is so well funded, so organized?
Glamic state-linked militants have gained a stronger foothold in Libya, seizing new economically vital areas of the country.
The leader of ISIS in Libya is none other than Abdel Hakim Bel-Haj, and of course he was on to the teeth by NATO.
A world in which there is the very real prospect of a new world order.
The Russians say they're negotiating with North Korea to hold joint military exercises.
Kim Jong-un and Vladimir Putin teaming up, creating an ominous alliance against the United States.
Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is aggressively opposing the nuclear deal that the U.S. government is negotiating with Iran.
Saudi Arabia is apparently prepared to allow Israeli jets into its airspace to conduct attacks on Iran.
We have an unprecedented opportunity to build a new world order.
I set up a foundation in Ukraine and created an important part in events now.
Ukraine is set to receive the first tranche of the International Monetary Fund aid package,
where we had appropriate appeal to transition power in Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin is on the move.
Only when this transformation is complete will we be able to take full measure of the opportunities presented
by this new and involving world order.
As known as the Milderberg Group, could their objective be world domination?
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Later in the broadcast, I am going to go over famous executive orders
that have been reissued by subsequent presidents, allowing presidents to take control of all medicine,
all transportation to put citizens into forced labor work brigades
that give the president for even an economic crisis or any other crisis,
total control over the media, over the means of production.
That's why the globalists put all this power in the presidency
and why they're so upset that the president now is back under the control of the people.
That's how he was able to get us out of TPP.
That's how he's been able to executively get rid of so many of these bureaucratic red-taked nightmares
that were designed to shut us down because they had given the president unconstitutionally
all of this executive power.
And Trump is using it to dismantle that system, and I'm praising that.
But I can tell you right now, CNN and the rest of mainstream media
are still in the hands of the deep state to a great extent,
openly working against the president, openly sabotaging things.
But when time of war kicks in, even the executives at those companies
basically do what the Pentagon and the president is asking them.
And when the president two days ago announced that he was pulling out of the Iran deal
and then Israel struck Syria, killing Iranians at a base,
no coverage, but one thing on Fox, little thing on Drudge and infowars.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, when war like that kicks off that could really trigger a larger war,
you know it's usually huge top stories, dun dun dun, on the edge of war,
war between Israel, war between Iran, will the U.S. be called in?
Lots of images on CNN with graphics of how the base was hit in satellite photos.
And cruise missiles were fired by the Israelis.
Zero coverage.
And that is, I can tell you, for certain, not because I have the sources on this,
but because I know how it works, the Pentagon said to the media,
please do not cover this.
We're going into a potential full war scenario.
And under war scenarios, the media, the production, the telephones, the Internet,
the UHF, the VHF, the cable, the government can hit one switch, the Internet kill switch,
and everything goes to government announcements, government text, government audio.
It's a fact. It's law.
Congress has passed this.
They're executive orders.
And I wasn't even criticizing Trump.
I mean, I do criticize him when I think it's needed.
I think we're in very dangerous waters right now, but I'm not ready to criticize him
because he's proven himself right over and over again, but I'm not going to give him blind faith.
I'm going to give him tacit guarded approval.
That doesn't mean I'm God. That's just my personal view.
I'm sure you've got yours.
But the fact that the media, day one and day two, had almost zero coverage.
Finally today, the foreign press is all over this for two days, so they can't ignore it.
It's out there, but that's a big issue.
So later in the broadcast, anybody can search this themselves.
Just go to Bing.
Google is pretty much worthless.
I don't want it to plug Microsoft, but it's like the old Google.
It works pretty good.
That doesn't mean they can't control it later.
Go to the start page or a lot of other great independent sites.
A lot of them feed off Google.
They just protect our identity.
And you can just search executive orders, presidential executive orders for national emergencies,
because each president reissues them with their own tailoring.
And Trump has reissued all those.
He declared an emergency a few months ago with the trafficking of men, women and children that allowed him to seize a lot of money
and start rolling up the pedophile networks and things along that line.
So this is real news and Forbes.
Here it is, Obama's plan to seize control of our economy and our lives because we deal with executive orders.
So Trump has this power and that's why the globalists are so scared of him.
This is the first real exercise of Trump's power that I've seen the last 48 hours with CNN having
zero coverage of this, even though they could spin it to say, look, Trump's an idiot.
He pulled out of the deal and this is all kicked off.
Now the word is John Kerry's behind the scenes telling the Iranians to start probing, start attacking, that that'll embarrass Trump.
So Trump isn't in full control of the executive branch yet.
I'm just pointing out this is the first sign that he is beginning to get control of it.
But people should stop being like children and stop being so naive about who runs the media and who controls things.
That's why the globalists hate local talk radio.
It's why they hate independent news like info wars because they want total control.
Whether they be right wing or left wing, ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNN, MSNBC.
Remember Gore Vidal famously before he died was on CNN.
He goes, wow, I'm on CNN today.
And there's no general in here, Colonel, they're in the brakes telling me what I can say.
And then CNN later had to admit it was in the news.
Roland Deller reported on it and said, no, we actually have on staff about 300 officers at our New York and Atlanta offices.
And we've even got several generals full time at CNN Center in New York and in DC.
You can pull those articles up CIA and top military run CNN world that daily.com.
And then it links to the press releases and admissions.
So there was also a press release four years ago by the Pentagon, a video press release by the deputy head of the army.
And also the deputy secretary of defense.
And our article about it was Pentagon promises to stop lying because of the drudge report because they source the drudge report.
They say, we're going to stop lying now.
You've made the decision.
This is when the Pentagon broke with Obama and we're going to be embedded now in all your local media to we're going to help you.
And I thought this is just ridiculous.
They're not actually going to do this.
And then like a strange, stranger things episode.
The CIA and military people started popping up all over the place.
And so far they've never given us any disinformation.
But I just, I'm not stupid. I know what this is all about.
So we're not in Kansas anymore.
Yeah, the guys pulled up a thing from 2017, which is not the crew's fault when I throw this stuff out.
They're supposed to find it, especially when it's 15 years old.
The exact headline is CNN centers staffed with CIA operatives, CIA and military operatives, crafting news.
That's your headline from 15 years ago.
So that's just some of the news that we're going to be covering on that front, but I'm going to print.
I've been meaning to do this lately.
I haven't done it.
So I'm kind of doing on the fly here.
The main to print the executive orders themselves to type this in crew and for TV viewers and listeners as well.
Just just type in list of executive orders, transferring control to the presidency during emergencies.
And then it'll go back to the sixties.
This executive order that allows putting people in forced labor camps.
This executive order that allows for total gun confiscation.
This executive order for the entire takeover of the media.
Give me some of the Obama kill switch articles out of Forbes and the Associated Press because all of that's still in place.
Now we're going to go to break.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will come back with the whole North Korea thing and then a lot more.
Don't forget we are running two of the biggest specials ever and these cells are going to end soon because both these products will sell out.
Bodies, the ultimate turmeric formula, 95% curcumin and level and it's got five other ingredients as well.
Four hundred plus milligrams of the turmeric in it.
The curcumin and it is 50% off even though it sold out last time at that price.
And all of the super blue fluoride free amazing toothpaste and mouthwash and immune gargle is 50% off and free shipping on the combo pack.
Thanks for your support.
InfowarsStore.com
Years ago, Infowars Life created the powerful Myco ZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Myco ZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better product to help your body fight back.
Myco ZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Take up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com.
InfowarsLife.com
In the history of InfowarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, Super Mel Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the Infowars.
InfowarsLife.com
When you wake up in the morning and the light has hurt your head, the first thing you do when you get up out of bed is hit that street surrounding and try to beat the masses and break it just up some cheap sunglasses.
Well, last night I talked about how the mainstream media was not reporting on the tit for tat war between Iran and Israel starting up in the last two days and how that was totally unprecedented and that can only happen if the president began to enforce executive orders and activate presidential decision directives that allow total control of the mainstream media.
And if they don't follow that then physically they start flipping switches and government pre-announced information comes out, they have whole newsrooms staffed with Voice of America personnel that will then commandeer that's the word and take full control of our media.
And if you're a radio listener and I'm putting all these executive orders, there's thousands of them up on screen because again they're reissued by each subsequent president.
And it's not even my opinion or my interpretation, even mainstream media says this allows this.
And the crews just found a bunch of executive orders and stuff I've never even seen before from the Clinton National Library, 2006, print that for me, amazing.
It's actual interpretation of the Clintons of their power saying just what I just said, again the crew without even breaking a sweat just printed probably 25 mainstream news articles and White House dot gov statements on this.
And you know, it's like a game with the ignorant to go oh no you're full of it, oh Trump's not getting a piece still in North Korea, oh the economy isn't at 3%, oh you know they're not stopping illegal aliens, oh illegal aliens don't commit crimes,
oh there's no executive orders to allow the total takeover, oh cell phone radiation doesn't give you brain timbers or heart problems, oh fluoride doesn't cause you problems for you, oh you don't need high time to live, oh.
And it's like they think siting with the establishment makes them part of the establishment and these people aren't part of the establishment.
And Trump is the establishment trying to be more pragmatic and trying to have victory for the world.
So when I come back I'm going to play a ton of clips and then we've got a guest joining us, Godfrey Bloom, who's a former member of the EU parliament, a patriot, works with Nigel Farage, highly recommended from Nigel Farage, he's been on years ago and he's a bigger than life character.
And we're looking at working with him on some things over there in the UK and he of course has been pointing out that when people have their right to defense taken they become total slaves and a man's been given what life in prison for stabbing burglars that were physically attacking him at his house.
So the big crime in the UK now is defending yourself with the whole criminal state, just like they had this no racism program in Coward County there in Broward County and they knew what Nicholas Cruz was planning and the sheriff's department stood down.
That's all confirmed.
They lied before and said he wasn't part of the promise program, he'd been part of the promise program since early 2013, vandalizing, threatening, attacking, you name it, stealing.
They all knew him as school shooter. He constantly went around with toy guns saying I'm going to kill you. I'm going to kill you. I'm going to come to school and murder everyone.
And when he did come, there was a stand down. And when he reported on it, the media said that we said nobody died so they could ban the videos we put out showing witnesses saying there was a stand up.
So that's the globalist media for you.
But when we come back on news blitz, I've already spent a lot of time on Israel and the fact that they are currently basically at war with Iran.
And this could escalate in the Persian Gulf or you name it. And it's just going to go ongoing because they hit, they hit back, they hit, they hit back.
Not anti-Israel, but still I don't like the fact that they started this hours after Trump said he was pulling out of the deal.
So I guess escalated. They want to get this over with. They want to punch Iran in the nose. Iran has had a lot of really vicious rhetoric, which is asking for it.
So this whole thing is spiraling out of control. Pray for peace, folks. We'll be back.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide its Alex Jones.
I have in my hand executive orders by John F. Kennedy, by Ronald Reagan, by George Bush Sr., by W., by all of them, allowing the total takeover of energy, commerce, defense, communications, putting people into work brigades during martial law.
Obama's Internet shutdown switch, BBC, Associated Press, WhiteHouse.gov, later in the broadcast, I'm going to go over that, because when the media didn't report anything in the first day and a half of the ongoing Israeli-Iranian war that's kicked off,
when they've always reported on just stuff much smaller before, hell, Palestinian youth throwing stones, Israelis with water cannons.
The fact that that's going on tells me that Trump has activated a national emergency.
That's just a total fact. The power is there, it's in place, he's already done it on human smuggling.
And if you don't think it's a national emergency, that Iran has belligerently been violating their agreements and is threatening to nuke folks, or threatening to use weapons, and that Israel's threatened to attack them, both sides.
And you've got Saudi Arabia now lined up on the side of Israel, wanting nuclear weapons.
It isn't about which side you're on, ladies and gentlemen, it's about the fact that this whole thing is escalating very quickly. If you want to understand executive orders in martial law and COG, that'd be what police state four or five do, the police state four.
He's been reviewing it to where he can pull up all the exact executive orders, since I asked him 20 minutes ago to do it, and they've already printed me now like over 40 documents.
Executive Order National Defense Resource Preparedness 2012, that's the really bad one with Obama.
People probably asked last hour how I knew this all happened in 2011-2012, because it was a big deal then. It's like all over the mainstream news, like the internet's a kill switch, it's real.
Why, everything including your smart phones under Obama's control. Why, the whole media does what Obama says.
Remember, Michelle Obama was on the cover of thousands of publications. Melania hasn't been on one, because the shadow government has been ignoring the president.
Do I like Trump in control of the media? No. Like Drudge said, it's very dangerous to start calling CNN fake news and then saying maybe they should lose their license.
As much as I'd like that, and as much as CNN is trying to get me shut down publicly, I'm not an authoritarian scumbag like them.
And once you start down that road, once you begin down that road of defining this, defining that, you're like the UK, and I've got that coming up.
UK says sharing hate posts online could lead to six months in jail under newly proposed rules. I mean, wow. Wow.
That is so huge. It's up on infowars.com and newswars.com. You can link through the article to just mainstream British news going how great this is.
Yeah, because they want all their competition shut down. This is frightening.
Now let's give this some positive news. Since July 27, 1943, hard to believe 60 years ago, there has been a armistice, meaning a ceasefire.
There's been a lot of fire fights, a lot of deaths, a lot of ships being grabbed, artillery barrages, a lot of stuff the public doesn't even know about.
That's gone on there since 1953 until 2018. And you've had the globalist propping up North Korea.
You've had the globalist using it as a detonator to play games, the Middle East giving them the weapons.
And now returning from North Korea with the newly confirmed Secretary of State Pompeo, President Trump has welcomed Americans home from North Korea.
They are really three incredible people. And of course, there's a lot of dramatic footage of that and then reunited with their families after years.
But let's go ahead and roll some of the comments from the president on that.
We very much appreciate that. He allowed them to go before the meeting. It was sort of understood that we'd be able to get these three terrific people during the meeting and bring them home after the meeting.
And it was nice in letting them go before the meeting. I mean, frankly, we didn't think this was going to happen and it did.
So you could say we're a little bit ahead. It was a very important thing to all of us to be able to get these three great people out.
Now, the next thing I want to go to is Robert Mueller. Now, even a lot of Democrats are saying, okay, he's out of control.
They went after stuff that wasn't Russia related. They found a Bembo and they found a drug company in the U.S. giving money to Cohen that's totally legal for the lobbying work he was doing.
I mean, this is a joke. But Pence won't even say the Russia investigation is a hoax.
He just says that it's time for it to wrap up. Here is the vice president.
You knew him. He must have briefed you when you were a member of Congress. He's a Marine. He's a lifelong Republican.
Do you think he can be trusted? Do you think he's a bad guy?
Our administration has been fully cooperating with special counsel.
Do you think his investigation is a hoax?
And we'll continue to. What I think is that it's been a year since this investigation began.
Our administration has provided over a million documents. We've fully cooperated in it.
And in the interest of the country, I think it's time to wrap it up.
And I would very respectfully encourage the special counsel and his team to do that.
Now, again, the wrinkle to all of this is McCain for the first year saying I did not give the dossier to BuzzFeed.
And I'm not involved in the dossier. And it turns out he was involved the whole time.
Then recently he said, OK, I was involved with some of the info in it.
Opposition research firm behind Trump, Russia Dossier, now says it didn't give it to BuzzFeed.
McCain says he didn't as well. But now he says he's proud of it and defends giving Trump dossier to Comey.
Who then gave it to him? So it's the same thing.
Duty demanded I do it. And of course, duty demanded you lie to us as well.
Truly, truly disgusting.
Now, when we come back, I'm going to get to some really important information.
I got sources, as you know, months ago that said they're planning false flags against the U.N.,
against the Federal Reserve, against CNN, against MSNBC, against the mainstream media, against people like Megan Kelly.
That is a total loss, sixty something million dollars in the toilet. Nobody watches her.
I wasn't told they're specifically planning to target her. I was told people like that.
Because they're flushing Matt Lauer, they're flushing Tom Brokaw, they're flushing all these overpaid people.
And they said that the false flag will be against their institutions blaming it on Trump supporters and blaming it on you.
Well, since then ISIS has come out and said they're going to attack CNN, the Federal Reserve, mainstream media.
And now CNN keeps saying it, they've said it again, that Trump's going to make his supporters attack them.
So they are really, really, really telling you what's coming.
And they're trying to set the precedent that my words are violent, Trump's words are violent.
And that as a class of people, we don't deserve free speech.
These fake lawsuits are all about. My lawyer went to a D.C. conference last weekend.
I talked to another lawyer. It was such a big deal. I was talking to another lawyer, my family lawyer here yesterday, who came to visit us.
And he said, no, I talked to Harvey, another one of the lawyers that was at the conference.
They said it was the most insane, bizarreness they've ever seen. They were hyperventilating.
There was thousands of people at this thing. And they had people on stage going, and they killed people at the pizza place.
Jones sent them to kill. There were dead people. And people are dying. And Jones is sending people to kill the Sandy Hook people.
And everyone's like, get him, get him, get him. Overturn the First Amendment.
And the lawyers are like, no, it's true. They're planning to create a statute, an Alex Jones statute, and then ban everybody's free speech.
It is the overturn of the First Amendment. So that's coming up on the other side, newswars.com, infowars.com.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The Bug Assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$39.95 in free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your Flice Water. Get your Bug Assault today.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only $0.02 per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Bacon Lovers. We ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest,
center-cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just $17.98.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
To smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding.
Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
All right. I got a bunch of stuff I want to hit the same before a guest joins us coming up with key information.
And that's, again, CNN putting out the talking point that Trump's causing violence.
I'm causing violence. We have to be removed from office or I have to be banned.
And that is the official PR drive, just like they've done in Europe,
saying you can't hurt somebody's feelings or your hate speech is going to cause violence
and then they can define it however they want. That's here.
Then I want to talk about the first lady, Melania, who I'm a big fan of,
kind of getting on the bandwagon of stopping bullying in schools.
Well, yeah, it's good to stop bullying. It's good to have good educational environments,
but kids are always going to be mean.
And if you try to shelter them, you're going to create basket cases.
And that said, I grew up in Dallas and it was kind of a reverse racism thing.
The schools let the minority students beat up the white kids who were a lot of times many years younger
because some of the minority kids, like other white kids, had flunk grades.
And I had thug white guys who had a couple of grades start fights as well.
But I grew up in Dallas. It was very violent, extremely.
There was a lot of stabbing and shooting when I went to school, but a lot of really serious people going to the hospital fights.
People were one of the hospital by 8th grade. People were dying by the 10th grade.
That's when my parents sold their house, their dental offices, and we moved to Austin.
Totally different culture. I never even saw a fight at Anderson High School.
Totally different world. I was like, this is awesome. This is wonderful.
I thought growing up was like a gladiator episode or something.
But I'm a lot stronger person because of it, but I'm already digressing.
I'm going to get into that because just like she's getting roped into that and Trump's getting roped into saying,
let's shut down CNN, that's becoming what we're fighting.
So I'm going to cover that coming up as well.
That said, I have some information about CNN.
The last time I got this information, in fact, I was going to cover this last night.
I was in my stack in here. I never did the report on it.
I asked Rob do where that stack last night went was in here.
We were in here at like 6 o'clock. It's got a whole stack.
And I wrote notes on a piece of paper with my source of what I was going to cover.
And I've got to find that stack that I left in here last night.
You guys might have taken it and I got to find that sheet because there's so much news that I intended to cover this
when I started the show today, but then more missile attacks went on between Israel and Iranian forces.
And so I got distracted and I was going to shoot a special report last night and I was just tired
and I went home to see my wife and children.
But it's a big piece of news and I got it from two sources one about a month ago
and then I got it again yesterday from another source.
And one of the sources told me specifically about the Time Warner AT&T merger about a year and a half ago
and inside baseball on that because they were at dinner with the lobbyist, a bunch of the lobbyist.
And then I saw that play out just like they said.
But let me just let me just give you the announcement and it's a little bit nuanced.
You know what? I'm not going to give you the announcement till I find my notes. I am so angry right now at myself.
I just meticulously was on the phone for 45 minutes writing these notes and then getting everything to back up
what I was even told because a lot of this is already public but it's not really known.
And then it deals with the future of CNN and the president doesn't need to shut it down.
And of course the president knows that because it's already shut itself down and the decision is how to get rid of it.
So I had this thing where I say coming up and I can't control myself if everybody knows that.
Other talks you host build it up, build it up, build it up, give it to you.
I'm like next hour we're going to cover the secret of blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But it's not that I'm holding it till later.
It's that I don't have my notes or my stack of news that backs a lot of it up.
Just like I told you about Korea and how they had sent their head of intelligence to meet with him in early March
and how I was told that they'd already tacitly agreed to all this.
There'd be a remerger over 10 years with coal plants and businesses and that all this was going to be unfolding
and that they would then release all of it.
And that's because we have those sources but this is pretty big so that's going to come up.
I've almost already burned through this segment just talking about that.
I need to really spend proper time on the CNN thing.
Look how many guests I have because I'm the one that loads the show guest and then I won't have time to get to it.
Godfrey Bloom is on.
Excellent, amazing guest. That's coming up.
Matt Bracken, I took over his hour this week so I said, hey, come on as a guest for an hour.
But then he got another hour, another day and I always want to hear from Matt.
Let's do 30 minutes with Matt instead of an hour.
And at one o'clock, if I can find my notes, an article, I may have to abort covering this unless I find my notes
because there's a whole bunch of them and I can't remember.
I can remember it all but I'll get something wrong and I want to give it out exactly because it's so intriguing.
This is really intriguing.
You want me to let it out, folks?
I can't even do it.
It's so hilarious what CNN's doing because if CNN gets rid of Trump, it's already been decided they're shutting it down
and even getting rid of the name.
And they don't even know at CNN that he's the only reason they've got any ratings or any funding.
And if they get him out, CNN 100% is going to close its doors.
Headline news and CNN, the decision has been made.
Now, that could change but that's the decision right now.
It's gone.
It's trash.
It's garbage.
Just like the Washington Post and the New York Times are propped up by these kingpins.
You're always seeing articles about, oh, they're getting some more subscriptions.
Oh, they're popular now.
Bull!
By loaning.
I'm going to stop right there.
So I'll have to punt into the next hour on that because our guest is coming up.
And on the Melania thing, and on the Free Speaks thing, and on the thing in the UK.
And on people having their smart homes taken over by Bezos.
That's in the news.
Amazon wants to run your house.
It's showing what it's like to have a home completely controlled by Alexa.
What a horrible idea that is.
Oh, there's no appliances watching us, Jones.
You're insane.
20 years ago.
So that's been the plan.
Briefly, we're not funded by Soros.
We're not funded by the globalists.
We're not funded by this whole new world order system.
We're funded by you.
And something I've dropped the ball on is we have put out like 30 new t-shirts.
It's more than 30 in the last year.
And I don't even promote t-shirts anymore.
A lot of these are really soft, nice fabric designer, summer athletic cut.
We put out six or seven shirts for women.
Women were asking for that.
We've just got camo shirts, military green shirts.
These are the best shirts we've ever produced, plus all the classic ones.
And then we've got collectors editions where we only print a few thousand.
Infowarsstore.com.
We've got well over 150 shirts right now.
And, you know, the five, ten bucks we make on these when you buy them,
that helps fund our operation.
But here's the big thing.
It's starting the adventure.
Because you go out to the Patriot area and get your lunchbox for you,
probably, or meet your new best friend.
You go into other areas you might get coffee dumped on your head,
or physically attacked.
So it's choose your own adventure.
The video game in the real world.
You're not looking for imaginary pocket mods.
You're not looking for other Patriots wearing your colors, loud and proud.
Get your Patriot apparel at Infowarsstore.com and choose your adventure today.
And get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter. Get your bugasalt today.
That's Black Rifle Real Estate.com.
Your adventure makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at Infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
The incredible new Purifying Formula is dentists recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray
will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver Immune Gargle
only available at Infowarslife.com.
No better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Infowarslife's select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you
in your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need
for an affordable price with Infowarslife's select storable foods.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Now, Godfrey Bloom is our guest and I want to play a clip of Godfrey Bloom here in just a moment.
Godfrey Bloom is a libertarian author with six books published on both military history
and Austrian School of Economics.
He's Ron Paul type guy.
He works in the city of London where he won an international prize for fund management.
He was a member of the EU Parliament for 10 years and has speeches in the chamber,
attracted over 70 million views, exposing state bank and tax malpractice,
as well as deep state corruption.
He was a member of the EU Parliament and he's going to give us his insight on where the EU's going,
because again, the Parliament's ceremonial.
He brought experience, if not influence, in the Monetary and Economic Affairs Committee
where he was sitting as a member of putting the European Central Bank President under unaccustomed pressure.
He's an associate member of the Royal College of Defense Studies and Graduate and Geopolitical Strategy.
His latest book, The Magic of Banking, the Coming Collapse and a Guide to Libertarianism,
and both he found on Amazon, Paperback and Kindle version, GodfreyBloom.uk
and in the words of Nigel Farage, who's larger than life,
Godfrey Bloom's probably the largest of live person he knows.
He said about a week ago on a phone call with me and we've had him on years ago,
but it's great to have him back. I want to get him to work with us more.
I want to get him, you know, sometimes a team with our reporters like Paul Watson in the UK.
There's so much to cover, Godfrey. I don't know where to begin,
but what about that viral video of you a few weeks ago where you pulled out your sword?
Tell folks about that.
Well, there was a chap who was attacked in the middle of the night.
He rested the knife off the guy and he stabbed him with it and killed him.
And bloody good job too, and that's what we should also do.
And I got really cross when he was arrested and I threatened everybody with my sword.
If they broke into me at the middle of the night, that's what they'd get.
Now, I want to play this clip and then get into the geopolitical and military areas.
Is it really an expert in, but how did the UK get to this point of taking the guns,
letting the Islamists in, having the exploding crime, the acid attacks,
now more dangerous than New York City and Sadiq Khan, you know, is up there saying,
we need to have restrictions on knives.
And if you defend yourself famously, you know, from burglars the third time and shoot them
with a secret shotgun, you go to prison, but the gypsies don't get in trouble.
I mean, why is the government of the UK and also the US and other liberal governments
just worshiping and coddling criminals?
What is the unifying end game, Godfrey?
Well, I think there's a desire to break down, as all with communists and socialists,
is to break down, if you can, society so you can install the system that you want.
So we have to get to a total breakdown before this can actually happen.
And so what they're trying to do is break it down.
And they do it by a method of secret societies.
So one of the leaning secret societies we have here at the moment is an organisation called Common Purpose.
And you have to be a member of that if you're going to be promoted.
It's sort of secret handshakes and stuff like that.
And they're all committed to actually not work with the people who pay their salaries, but work against them.
So we've got ourselves into this terrible mess, this terrible situation,
and we've really got to do something about it.
But we can't do anything about it until we get rid of those people
and we get rid of our civil service, who are all making this happen.
Our civil service now runs the country, not politicians.
I'd rather think of the United States, you're finding that out as well.
Exactly. We've got the former head of the CIA and NSA openly saying,
if you're in government, don't do what the executive branch says.
Don't follow orders. Block him. Sabotage him.
And I have an article here out of the UK, the Daily Mail.
UK sharing hate posts that they define online could lead to six months in jail under newly proposed rules.
Say that the Prophet Muhammad, Mary a nine-year-old, it's a fact, six months in jail,
say that we shouldn't sexualize young children and give them, quote, gay education, six months in jail.
This is like iron curtain level censorship.
Oh, I think, Alex, this is something the East German police, the Stasi, would have died for.
This is far, far in advance in anything they were allowed to do.
You can now get arrested and it's actually happened for quoting the Bible.
You can stand at the market square and quote bits of the Bible,
and you can be arrested for it for disturbing the peace.
You know, we live in this absolutely crazy situation,
but we also live in a situation where the, if it's Islam, your bulletproof, you cannot be arrested.
And if you are, if you're a politician, if you come from an ethnic minority,
you can pretty well say exactly what you like, say anything what you like.
If you are white or middle class or of the indigenous population, you will be horribly vilified straight away.
So the whole thing's being turned on its head.
It's really, it's really quite upsetting.
And of course, the whole country is absolutely bewildered by it.
And we got rid of the House of Lords, which was our amending chamber.
It was politicized by Tony Blair, because although it was a rather eccentric organization, the House of Lords,
it actually had people who were real lords, not fake lords that we have now,
people that were real earls and dupes and Viscounts,
whose families had been in this country for years and years and years.
So they had the stewardship of the country at their heart.
They were great stewards of the country.
And it was a force broadly speaking for good and common sense.
That's all changed now. They put cronies in.
They're all failed politicians, civil servants with hidden agendas.
So consequently now, they don't represent anybody.
They certainly don't represent the country.
And of course, they're quite open about the fact now they're trying to thwart Brexit,
which is the will of the people.
The House of Commons mandated the electorate to vote.
The Prime Minister wrote a letter to every family in the land saying that the Commons,
the House of Commons, would carry out the will of the people on this,
whether they voted yes or no.
And of course, the Prime Minister said of the day, David Cameron, we ought to vote to stay.
But he said, if you don't vote to stay, we'll carry out your wishes.
And then what people forget is that we had a general election within just a few months,
and on both red and blue, Labour and Conservative,
of course, we've got red and blue just like you.
You've got Democrats or Republicans.
We have Labour or Conservative.
We get the choice of two very poor choices, incidentally, I'm afraid, very poor choices.
And so what actually happens there is that these people have thwarted the will of the people,
because on both red and blue, the manifesto was to carry out Brexit.
So the whole country, 72 million people, voted to leave the European Union.
And nobody's taken the slightest bit of notice because we're no longer run by the people, by the electorate.
We're run by a small cabal of people in Parliament of the civil service.
Exactly. Wouldn't it be fair to say you've traded out hereditary royalty and people
that actually then went along with the Magna Carta and the whole new system
that became the world model of freedom,
and have replaced it with shadowy international mega cartels
that have created new bureaucratic royalty whose goal is total division of the population,
the atomization of it for absolute hegemonic control.
I mean, this is the great game writ large to the next level,
trying to, I mean, directly destroy culture.
And A, do you agree with that?
And B, how big is the pushback?
We see populism exploding.
We see a lot of people awakening to this.
But is that death rows or is that major pushback?
Well, there's a lot of people are surprised because obviously as a graduate of the Royal College of Defense studies
and being an ex-politician and a member of the Economic and Monetary First Committee,
I'm used to dealing with these people.
And I just knew how much power that they had.
But I think the ordinary population here are beginning to understand by whom they are governed.
These people, they've never heard of these people.
These people are popping up all over the place.
People are saying in the pubs and clubs, especially in the North of Billigan,
who are these people?
I've never heard of these people.
And what you've got to understand, it's the same as America.
It's very different.
I've visited America a lot and I've got a lot of American friends.
But you've got to bear in mind in the United Kingdom,
it's a little bit like, imagine being on a train where all the passengers want to go to Birmingham.
But of course, they will vote to go to Birmingham.
But the driver of the train and the conductor of the train
don't think that's a good idea. They want to go to Edinburgh.
It doesn't matter how much.
Stay there, God pre-blown.
We'll talk about it on the other side in common purpose as well.
This is critical.
This is critical.
InfowarsLife.com
Our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Floralife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfowarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long.
Go ahead.
I just have to say something, man.
It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging.
It just gets old, man.
I'm going to shut you down right now.
We're taking calls about your nomination.
Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm?
If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
I mean, what's it going to take?
Us being shut down?
Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what, Alex?
I'll put it on pause again.
Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear?
We're under attack.
We need your help.
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
You understand?
I need your help, Frank.
I need your help, Frank.
Go to infowarsstore.com right now and help fund the InfoWars.
Do you understand?
I need your help, Frank.
Free press needs your help, Frank.
This is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Who do you expect you've heard about this old-age pensioner who's been arrested by the police
for defending his home from two thugs in the middle of the night with threatening his wife,
threatening to rob him.
They were armed with screwdrivers, a couple of nasty thugs,
and I know it's subdued to see, but it seems like he'd dispatched one of them and set one of them off
in defense of his home.
I'd like to know what other country in the world were arrested, a 78-year-old old-age pensioner,
for defending his wife and defending his house in the middle of the night.
I have no other country where he would have been arrested, and he'd been arrested.
It shows the decadence, the deaths to which our country has sunk, the Crown Prosecution Service,
the Not Fit for Purpose Home Office, the Common Purpose Chief Constables,
the whole rabble, rabble that now run our country.
I can't believe he's been arrested. I'm furious, and I bet you're furious too.
Particularly interesting because I used to live in Hiddard Green when I was in London.
I lived in Hiddard Green for many years.
My grandmother lived in Hiddard Green for many scores of years,
and it's not a particularly rough sort of place.
I just can't believe that this has happened, that he's been arrested.
But let me just say one thing. Let me make one thing very clear.
I'm your president, I'm ex-army, and this is my old army sword.
This is my old army sword. Okay?
You break into my house in the middle of the night, you dare do something like that,
and you'll get this. Make no mistake, you'll get this.
As it's my frugal right as an ancient man, defend my family.
I will defend my half, I will defend my family,
with my old regimental sword, and the Crown Prosecution Service, but down to the devil.
Now, I was talking to Nigel Frauz last week, and he said,
have you seen that video with 7 million views on YouTube?
And I said, no. No one looked it up, had like 8 million views by then.
I went on Facebook, I didn't even know about that. I was like, 9 million over there.
And that shows how hungry people are.
We've got to have Godfrey Bloom back up for a full hour to get into banks,
and his books, and military history, and geopolitically what's happening currently.
I was just introducing him back to this audience here.
If we want to work with him more, we're looking for folks that want to actually reporting in the UK.
So that's something down the road we're trying to build right now with Malik and others,
and Paul Watson.
We have a little bit of time in this segment, some time in the next,
and he's got to go, and then we've got other guests joining us.
I'm going to tell you about the fate of CNN.
This is an exclusive. It is being intended to be shut down.
This is directly from the highest levels.
It's not Trump saying, you know, take their license, and we're talking about the corporations don't want it,
but it's kind of being handed about right now.
So that's coming up.
But I want to just do kind of a snapshot view with Godfrey Bloom as a really respected military historian,
expert in banking.
You name it, about the current state of the world,
and what the globalists are doing, why the big banks are funding socialism and communism,
how they have these national groups like Common Purpose in the U.K.,
Carnegie Foundation, others here, all the big leftist organizations,
where Cruz, the shooter at Parkland, was protected for four years,
death-threatening people, robbing, vandalizing, stealing, you name it.
And it's the same thing with these Islamists.
The high courts in Europe just ruled can rape little girls.
It's mainstream news. It can kill people.
It's like they're above the law.
This is part of a destabilization strategy that he absolutely hit the target with.
So I want him to finish up with that and then give us a snapshot,
geopolitically what he sees happening in the world,
who the different players are versus the populist,
the capitalists, the nationalists, the pro-Christian, pro-liberty, pro-success,
common sense world that comes out of the U.K.
I'm not an anglophile here,
but England ended slavery worldwide except in a few Muslim areas.
Now you read the news, you think Israel invented slavery.
The West is what gave women their rights and everything.
And then how have we now had it turned back on us using our goodwill against us
in this guilt-ridden system?
It's just insane.
So I want you to finish up with that, sir,
and then give us big picture on the state of the world right now
as a well-known, respected historian and former member of the EU Parliament.
Well, in the United Kingdom, they didn't just get rid of the House of Lords
and this process has been going on for some time.
They got rid of the primary situation of the Christian faith
is something else that's been got rid of.
Her Majesty the Queen is the head of the church,
but the Archbishop of Canterbury have been chosen by the Prime Ministers of the day.
And they have consistently produced Archbishop of Canterbury
who have no interest in preaching the gospel at all.
Wasn't one bishop a Wiccan?
Wasn't one one of the head bishops a Wiccan, doesn't even believe in Christ?
Yeah, well, that was actually the Bishop of Durham.
Yeah, that was a few years ago.
So we've got the heads of the the heads of the Anglican church in the United Kingdom
are a waste of space.
They're absolutely hopeless.
So that's one pillar of society that they got rid of.
The other pillar of society that they got rid of was the family, the traditional family,
mom and dad and the kids and the role model of a father and the working father.
They got rid of all that by taking away any tax advantage you had by getting married
and having children in the traditional way.
We now have a welfare system which pays children,
pays mothers for producing children with maybe four or five different fathers
and they're locked into the twilight world of welfare from generation to generation.
We now have third generation of families who have no intention of working at all.
And this is an admitted plan of the big megabanks working with the communists.
How do we stop them?
And is this, as I said earlier, you're a smart guy.
Is this a global awakening when we're on the offense and are going to win
or is it a death rattle and what's your real assessment?
Well, the problem that we have is one of the democracy, the system of democracy that we have.
And the only person who is really seriously challenging this at the moment, of course,
is Hans Hopper and you'll be familiar with his work.
Now, if you go back to ancient Athens and the concept of democracy, Alex,
this is the problem that we have now, it was never, ever the idea that you've got to vote
just because you were 18 years old.
You had to be a contributor to the system.
You had to contribute to the system.
And of course, even Oliver Cromwell, if you fast forward right up to the 1600s,
Oliver Cromwell, a great parliamentarian, suggested it isn't quite right
that you should get a vote just by breathing the air.
And I quote him, you shouldn't get a vote just by breathing the air.
You should contribute to society.
And if you don't contribute to society, you shouldn't get a vote.
What we now have now is two sorts of welfare.
We have social welfare and corporate welfare.
So we have big business who are getting subsidies on a daily basis, landowners.
And of course, at the other end of society, we have at the bottom end of the scale,
we have people who are permanently on social welfare.
And they all vote in their own self-interest.
Well, it's like Mitt Romney said, once you get 57% on the dole, it's over.
Because they will enslave the other half.
Well, yes, and it's not just on the dole, Alex, it's people in the public sector.
It's people in the public sector.
We have the local boss at the town hall on 200,000 pounds a year.
We have the head of the National Health Trust on 200,000 pounds a year.
Well, ordinary hard-working people, ray-may-veed mechanics,
cab drivers, hairdressers are struggling just to get by.
Yeah, what do they make? Like 20,000? 20,000 pounds? 30,000?
The average wage in this country across the country is about 28,000 pounds,
about $37,000 a year, because it does tend to vary.
But give you an idea of this, however wrong it's gone in our National Health Service,
which is a ludicrous disgrace the way it's run at the moment.
We have 1.6 million people employed in the National Health Service,
less than half of whom have any medical qualification whatsoever.
Oh, yeah, I saw the article just to interrupt you, we've got to head back again for a full hour or longer,
Godfrey Bloom with us, where the little girl has the legs four inches too short,
they can easily do a surgery and fix it here, and they're telling her to chop her leg off.
Well, that's the kind of nonsense that you end up with when you have
chief executives on 200,000 pounds a year on a fully trained theater nurse,
which is at the top of her profession, earning 32,000 pounds a year.
The whole thing is topsy-turvy.
We've got to get rid of these freeloaders of whom there are far, far too many at every level of government.
They have to go, but they're very difficult to shift,
because the government keeps turning round to these people and saying,
you've got to cut expenditure.
And of course, they're the people that actually do the sums.
They're the people that do the cutting.
So they don't cut themselves, they cut nurses, they get rid of doctors.
The army, the Ministry of Defense, they get rid of soldiers,
but they never get rid of clerks working in White Hall.
The whole system's gone mad.
We've got to change the whole political ethos of this country
and North America, just to say, and Western Europe.
It's all got to change.
And if it doesn't change soon, the whole system is going to collapse
with all that that entails in terms of what...
I was about to say, don't we have the social compact that's been broken?
Oh, it's been completely broken, and it's been broken by the people
with whom we placed our trust, politicians and civil servants.
I think there's going to be a night of the long knives.
I could see it ending up a bit like the French Revolution.
Well, that's my next question. We've got five more minutes
when you've got a free balloon and we come back in two minutes.
I want to ask you, you're a smart historian, military historian,
mainline historian, a major leader in the UK
for folks here in the US watching you.
At a gut level, how do you see it ending?
I agree, because I'm not going along with this.
I'm trying to fix it peacefully. They're getting violent,
and they're going to keep pushing it and keep starting it,
and they're going to reap the whirlwind.
We'll be back. Stay with us.
I've missed myself the last few months,
and from seeing my friends and family use it,
that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself,
and then rest assured you're finding the info war
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available
at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities,
and it's made in the USA. Get your Alpha Power today
at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Years ago, Info Wars Life created
the powerful MycoZX formula to help you
combat internal yeast. As the years went on,
and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger
and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause
you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time as powerful
microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved
MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
You see, if we don't admit we're under this global system
or that the EU makes 90% of the UK's laws
and they never voted to be part of it,
if we never admit that we're under an unelected system,
we can't elect a president who will pull us out of the TPP.
We can't elect people in the British Parliament
that will get them out of the unelected EU system.
And again, he was a member of the parliament, Godfrey Bloom,
but that's ceremonial.
You've got the permanent bureaucracy like a Soviet Politburo.
So I want to get Godfrey Bloom on for a full hour next week
if he can do it, to get into his books,
The Magic of Banking, The Coming Collapse,
A Guide to Libertarianism, and so much more.
But just in the five minutes we have left, sir,
getting into the sense of what you're saying
that people are going to really start getting aggressive here
when the producers basically shrug like Atlas shrug,
and then your view on the world economic system
and why these wars are kicking off
is what you see in your crystal ball.
Well, of course, there are a number of things
that we'll do to sort of encapsulate in a few minutes,
but we've read, I'm sure most of your listeners would have read
or be aware of General Eisenhower's autobiography
when he said beware.
Beware of the industrial military complex,
which, of course, is just follow the money.
A lot of people make a lot of money out of war.
It's young men, ordinary young men,
that get their legs blown off and get killed.
A lot of people sit at home in armchairs
making money out of war.
So that's one of the problems
that is very difficult to get rid of.
And when it comes to freedom,
freedom has to be consistently fought for.
You can't fight for it once and hope it's going to be there.
The Americans have fought two wars of independence.
One was against the British Empire,
and the one, of course, was a civil war,
north versus the south.
A lot of people don't understand it or know about it,
but the British have actually had four civil wars.
King Stephen against Matilda, the War of the Roses,
the first civil war in the 1600s,
and the second to get where we actually chopped off Charles I's head.
There was a restoration about 20 years later.
I was about to say you had the defender of the face
to mention Cromwell. He was the last one, right?
That's right. He was the last head of the Commonwealth.
And that didn't work out very well for us,
but it's a constant thing.
It isn't a one-off thing.
The French had to have their revolution,
King Louis, for Napoleon.
They got exactly the same deal.
They just got somebody who was a little bit perhaps more efficient,
but he still killed lots of young men with his wars.
So this is a constant problem. This is a constant thing.
And if we are thwarted in our...
Brexit is a wonderful example.
If we're thwarted in our leaving after we've had a referendum,
we've had a mandate given to parliament by the people twice,
once in a referendum, once in a general election,
and still they're thwarting it.
And I said this in one of my recent podcasts on my website.
I simply don't know any other alternative.
I simply can't understand what else we can do except march to London.
There's 71 people who voted to leave and burn the bloody place down.
Somebody else gave me a better idea because I don't have one.
Well, you're right. You've got foreign traders who are selling you out
and you don't have a vote and they're an occupational group,
and they're trying to take your free speech and trying to use your tax money
to bring in a bunch of foreigners to become the police and bureaucrats
to suppress you.
At a certain point, they think our reluctance is a sign of weakness.
They take our kindness as a sign of weakness. It's not.
And historically, it shows when the producers and the workers actually fight back,
these parasites are going to run for the hills quite quickly.
But I think they now realize humanity is awakening.
Speaking of that, your podcast, all of it, Godfreybloom.uk.
Can you join us for a full hour next week?
I certainly hope I can. I just need to check up with one of my colleagues.
But I certainly hope I can.
Because, yeah, I know we've got a lot of stuff we need to talk at least next week
off here about some plans because, you know, we've been working on some things
behind the scenes to launch some stuff in the UK.
And then a little bird told me you might be one of the guys that wants to do that.
Well, I certainly do want to. That was no question.
I mean, deep as whales next week.
All right, buddy. Thank you so much, Godfreybloom. God bless.
Thank you.
All right, we'll be back as the global resistance against tyranny accelerates into hyperdrive.
I'm Alex Jones, your host, newswars.com is the newest site.
We're redoing M4 Wars. It's still a great site, but it's an older design.
And prisonplanet.com is our UK backup.
M4warstore.com is how you finance this.
You are our financiers. Without you, we will fall to sorrows.
We will fall to the EU. We will fall to the globalists.
But with you, we will defeat them together. We'll be back.
This is the end of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Last night, I had a very interesting phone call with an individual.
It was not Roger Stone.
And he gave me big details of CNN and its future and the media in this country.
And I wrote some notes that we won't document here because I don't want to show all these on television.
Radio listeners, I'll be breaking it down.
And I thought, even though his voice has gone from hundreds of interviews the last few days and weeks since he's been the focus of the fake Mueller probe,
but I realized that a lot of what I was told by this high level individual is similar things that Roger Stone told me a year and a half ago,
and then six months ago, and then a few weeks ago when he was here in town.
And I don't just get into this because it's gossip about CNN.
CNN, on average, has about 200,000 viewers.
Its top shows have a million and a half. I mean, they're a joke. They're force fed in hotels. They're force fed in bars.
They're force fed in train stations and airports.
They pay to put the TVs in and pay for the cable and sometimes actually pay money on top of it to be force fed.
It's like government cheese or synthetic gin in the imaginary world of 1984.
You want to avoid it at all costs.
So it's already dead, but it's interesting while we're getting Roger on because he finally answered the phone.
It's interesting to know this because it just ties into how things work.
Most people look at a news story one-dimensionally or two-dimensionally, maybe.
But what about looking at it third-dimensionally, fourth-dimensionally?
That's what they call this 3D chess, looking out, projecting how it's going to have ripples in the pond.
So then I was going to cover this last night, but then I wanted to talk to Roger. I never got around to calling him.
And then I missed his call this morning and then I went and found my notes and I just wanted to get him here as a crutch because he doesn't know I'm going to do this.
Because he told me a lot of this, but I don't understand all the nuances. He used to run with the biggest lobbying firms, not the most successful in DC for many years.
And he told me about this, of course he told me about this.
And then I talked to other people, but this was again a year and a half ago and then in the last few months I heard more and it's been all over the news.
But this other source that will go unnamed laid out that the DOJ is proposing that AT&T exclude Direct TV or Turner from the Time Warner deal
if they're going to merge with Time Warner because Time Warner owns CNN.
Now the big concern here is, I think this is very complex, but I'm just going to lay it out.
It's not really a monopoly issue to merge AT&T and Time Warner because AT&T does not have that big of media holdings.
They're more a telecommunications company and Time Warner has a bunch of failing and ailing and low rated properties.
It's legacy, it's two feet in the grave.
That's the thinking and so the two kind of need to merge together to even have any shot at contending with Google and Facebook and Twitter
that are at an Amazon with its own streaming services.
When the Amazon's bigger than, you know, all the legacy media combined.
I mean, Bezos makes $12 billion a day some days. I mean, he's worth $160 billion now or something. Next week will be $170 billion, $200 billion, $300 billion.
So this whole thing about these companies merging, you know, being a monopoly is a red herring.
I mean, if you want to break them up, start with Google, Amazon, probably Amazon first.
Amazon, Google, Facebook, Twitter, you know, Twitter's part owned by Amazon.
When you talk about these things, it's all interconnected. Bezos is really the kingpin.
He's really super anti-American, super monopolistic, super hyper psycho aggressive.
He's not a free market dude. He's real bad news for standard living in society. He is creeperzoid.
Once you live in 250 square foot apartments, I mean, he's once your house be AI run by him.
I mean, delusion is a grandeur. Baby, he's it. He is the problem.
Now, and by the way, you see the news, Trump's obsessed with Bezos. Bezos, because he's the kingpin, folks.
He's the one. So let me get to this. He stands the way of American prosperity. He stands the way of the Renaissance.
I heard a lot of this that I got from this other source last night from Stone a year and a half ago and others.
Then I talked to folks that were at the dinner with Stone. Wasn't any Russian collusion a test? It was high level folks.
I'm going to leave it at that. Roger, we haven't talked. When we come back from break, we'll see what he wants to say.
I just want him to hear what I'm going to say to then correct any of it's wrong because, again, he's not my new source or this other source.
I have three sources total, but two big ones. It's that this is big and I want to make sure he holds my hand with this and make sure I get it right.
So without further ado, here is the big enchilada.
CNN's a bunch of hired mercenaries and mainly political hacks from the Democratic Party and failed Republicans that get up there and put out their propaganda.
And they're also pushing this narrative that Trump's going to get them killed.
And the word is the globalists are looking to stage terror attacks against CNN, MSNBC to make them the victim. I mean, that's how desperate they are to try to up the narrative and make themselves pertinent in this whole victimology culture.
But the word is they don't know how to offload CNN because they don't want it to be outside the merger because then it would fall to a Bezos, Bezos, tomato, tomato or a monstrous creature like George Soros.
But it's a sticking point in the merger because AT&T doesn't even want it.
It's a worthless property losing hundreds of millions of dollars a year. There's an eyesore and a ruined brand shinging in is fake news.
So no need for Trump to take his license or kick it out of the press corps because it's already a joke. Leave them there.
They're killing themselves. They're already dead. They're like Lazarus, though, you know, the reanimated corpses. They're the walking dead.
So we've got that bottom line there.
So here's the big crux of it.
CNN is like garbage that has to be taken out, but there's face saving.
I don't want to just turn it off. Come on, when they get reappears Morgan or somebody, they go, oh, they do a monthly magazine now.
And the monthly magazine airs for three months and then they're just gone.
So they're trying to figure out how to take out the garbage pellets CNN. And here's what the idiots at CNN don't know.
So I'm going to let them know this. If they successfully take Trump out and Trump's now winning, he's turned the corner.
The globalists are panicking. They're now trying to superpiece.
If they remove Trump or successful CNN 100 percent is going to have its doors closed and CNN will be a thing of history.
They're going to save face with some CNN documentary channel that's, you know, 5,000 or something that no one watches that's old interviews.
There's going to be a face saving, but it's going to be transferred into some entertainment channel with a whole new name beyond CNN headline news.
That's the test.
So CNN is trying to bring down Trump, but only while Trump was in office that it even bring their ratings up to tolerable to even halfway fun things.
Without Trump, it's believed that it's going to totally collapse. It will be totally gone.
And the executives believe there's no way to rehabilitate it and they're unanimous that they want to get rid of it,
but they don't want to spin it off to become some new criminal mischief owned by Bezos or the Dark Lord Nazi collaborator.
George Soros. So that's what's holding up the whole deal.
Notice they're now debating them, excluding direct TV or something like that, because that actually has power and is big.
CNN doesn't matter.
So they're CNN trying to destroy Trump when CNN is completely bankrupt, propped up like the Washington Post or New York Times,
a total failure, absolutely rotten.
Yeah, we declared it dead last year and they lied themselves to death.
And so that's what's really going on there. And it just is a symbol of how mainstream media is dead, the legacy media is dead,
and that they just don't even know in their own world that if they get rid of Trump 100 percent,
that CNN will be there for the impeachment, that's whatever, and then as soon as that's gone, they are gone.
They are, they are.
So CNN is already dead, but it's trying to fully blow the brains out of its own zombie rotting cranium.
It's unbelievable. We'll talk about it with Roger Stone straight ahead.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering m4store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
There's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such as traveler's stew,
homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars LifeSelects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars LifeSelects storeable foods.
Broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
But imagine, they've already dug their own grave, they're climbing in it, and now if they take Trump out,
which that doesn't look like it's going to happen, Trump's turned the corner, they're being given the shotgun to blow their own head off.
So meanwhile, they're being used as a kamikaze to run around and call for InfoWars to be shut down.
Now, a lot of what I was told by this high level source, Roger told me about the merger and stuff that I later saw confirmed in the news.
Back when we were in D.C. at the inauguration in 2017, a year, you know, a year and five months ago or a year and four months ago.
So I just wanted to get Roger's take on how accurate he thinks the information I got was because it's crazy that the average CNN person doesn't even know
that they are seen as garbage by all the corporations and they're just figuring out what to do with it.
I just say let Bezos or let Soros take it over. It's already such a joke, but I guess that's why they're still holding on to it.
So you heard my breakdown of that. How accurate is that with the latest info you've got with your sources?
Well, we know that one of the major sticking points in government approval of the AT&T Time Warner merger is the status of CNN.
There are two arguments. One argument is that since it is performing very poorly economically, financially, and since their ratings are relatively anemic,
except for when I'm on, they should get new management that would change the whole thing, including the direction.
Alternatively, there are others who say, no, it's garbage, spin it off.
I am in the former camp. I would have reformed. I would let the management at AT&T, the new owners, make true business decisions.
Spinning it off, which they could put in the hands of Soros or Bezos or some other O's with a lot of money.
And unfortunately, even though the brand name is somewhat damaged, nothing helps like a couple hundred million dollars in online promotion.
Oh, they could go to crossfire mode of real debate right now. They'd be right up to Fox News in six months. You could turn it around instantly.
But they made it what was a commercial decision that they were going to be the voice, you know, the respectable voice of anti-Trumpism.
They were going to be more sly. They find their lefty viewers, very few of them, of course, going over to MSNBC where they're completely nuts,
as opposed to CNN, which pretends to be objective but tilts way left.
This is going to be a key point. As you know, they, of course, quietly pushing to have info wars removed from YouTube,
removed from the internet. You know, leading journalists leading the way for censorship makes little sense to me.
But what about my source? And again, with similar info that I've talked to you about, but saying, no, it's done.
The executives made the decision. If the merger happens or not, CNN is gone. It is gone.
Unfortunately, it's not up to them. The government required them in a decision, essentially, as a condition of approval,
that they have to spin it off. I think that that was an error. But that's kind of where this was left off.
And I'm saying no one wants to buy it. No one wants to buy it. And so what's going to, I mean, from your sources, what's going to happen?
At that point, though, AT&T then challenged that ruling by the government court, a suit that they're likely to win.
So in the end, the courts will approve the deal. And I think AT&T will still end up owning CNN. The president's decision being appealed right now in the courts.
And I know you disagreed with that decision. You thought that AT&T should take it over and try to reform it and at least make it, you know, two-sided.
They could buy the cameras and everything and change the name if they had to.
So is it accurate what my source says? I know you're tied into the people right at the top when it comes to lobbying without giving away too much.
Is it accurate, though, that the corporations see it as garbage? And it's not even in the discussion now. And they're saying that the only reason it's around is because Trump's even there.
Well, everybody is essentially just sitting around now waiting for the court. The decision will be made there.
So the lobbyists are unengaged. Everybody, you know, this decision is there to be made.
But it's not going to be made through the regulatory process of the executive branch. It's going to ultimately be made by the courts.
I think on the law, I think AT&T has a strong case. The government has approved other mergers with these same encumbrances.
Oh, well, I agree with the merger because these are all a bunch of old legacy moth-eating garbage compared to Google or Amazon with all its media presence or any of that.
I mean, it's like today there's a major story that Qatar is putting $90 million into Newsmax and Newsmax is going to expand into cable.
Cable is yesterday. I mean, Newsmax doesn't have the online presence that Infowars has. We reach millions. They reach, you know, a lot of patriots.
By the way, I don't even want to give out our podcast numbers because I had seen some of them, but I started to actually do an accounting around here.
And so I actually did an accounting. We only have a few million people downloading my show.
But on the three different platforms that we have podcasts just for mine, which we promote, it's 7 million a month.
Then you add the other shows. It's another 4 million. We're not even promoting podcasts. And that's 11 million plays just on podcasts.
This is exactly my point. So look, I got so tired of this fellow, Ari Melber, on MSNBC repeating lies over and over again, recycling lies.
His producer and he keep asking me to be on their show. When I went to tape Andrew Mitchell's show, two of his soy boy producers came down to pitch me.
And, you know, I thought about it and I said, you know, I have a better idea. Come on my show, The War Room, one hour, mono a mono, no editing.
We'll get a much, much larger audience than you could get. And let me knock down your lies one at a time. I have not heard from him.
Well, that's the thing, because they're not even about ratings. They're just about controlling narrative and getting all the media to say the same thing.
But of course, if they came on a controversial interview, it blow up on the internet. They get played on their show, have ratings, but they're like designed to fail.
It's almost like they want to make the news boring so you tune out and get brainwashed and entertainment.
And that's where the real brainwashing is, Roger, as you know, is going on inside the Hollywood movies. Man, they are weaponized.
There's no question about it. They're using the culture and our right to free expression, ironically, in a way against us.
By the way, you know, I like you defending Info Wars with your own commo and all that, but notice he says, and what Jones said, spearing the families of Sandy Hook.
For years, I've said I believed it happened, but I've looked at how people can question because of Gulf of Tonkin and babies and incubators.
You're welcome. But now, Jeff, to understand, it's in the media matters for American talking points that Chris read that morning and they go to it. We get it.
No, I know, but it doesn't even hurt us. They just, we don't deserve free speech because we hurt blah, blah, blah.
I mean, it's just, it's now they say that I say nobody died at Parkland. That's totally not true. So I'm just saying great job.
But next time you can just tell them that's edited. That's out of context. And, you know, okay, I would have said we'll CNN, you know, lied and millions died in Iraq or fake WMDs, commo.
Well, last night I spoke extensively on coast to coast AM about the war of censorship that's being waged against you and I and info wars and so many other patriots who are just trying to exercise their first amendment.
George Norrie is an amazing pro free speech guy. Thank you so much, Roger Stone for chiming on CNN. Get your voice back. You're awesome. Thank you very much. We'll be back.
All right, many thanks. Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets. Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why infowarslife has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle. Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle. Only available at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
At the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
From the Frontlines.
From the Frontlines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
So if you wonder why corporate establishment dying or zombie undead media is so anti-free speech trying to shut down infowars, it's a very simple reason. They see us as the lead elephant. They see us as the first big thing that if they can target that and get that, they can shut it all down because they know the numbers.
But it's a very interesting political sociological equation that I can't even figure out because they are blocking us and shadow banning us and Project Veritas has video, YouTube, Google, Facebook, Twitter, all of them.
Google and YouTube are one company, but Google is the parent. They have people on video, both groups saying, oh, our main enemies, Alex Jones.
And when I get up here on air and I go, hey, I'm the main enemy, I don't say that like, hey, I'm really bragging. I'm like, I marched into the globalist operation trying to fight them. And I never thought we'd end up being one of the most prominent groups out there.
Newsmax is getting 90 million from a Middle Eastern company and a Middle Eastern royalty to launch it to cable. Well, that's fine. Chris Ruddy's a good guy overall and puts out pro-nationalist, pro-free market stuff. That's great.
There's a multi-billion-dollar self-made Texas family funding, Ben Shapiro and the Daily Wire. Ben Shapiro is a globalist, neocon, snake in the crush, who's trying to get in my business.
But okay, fine. I'm going to leave Malone. Pride go before a full. And every other group is financed by Big Money, except Matt Drudge and Alex Jones.
Michael Savage was self-made publishing books and supplements, but I mean, you know, he's on a big network. So I'd say he's self-made too, but not as free as we are.
And let me tell you, that's not an exciting feeling to be like, okay, world net daily is independent, but it's not that big anymore. I wish it was.
I'm not putting it down. It deserves your support. Great work over there. And, you know, M4s is big, but under massive censorship and constraint.
But then that's a Streisand effect. It does cause people to tune in more in different ways and come to our core websites.
So we see our base support increase, but the big super viral stuff, not as regular, which all at the end of me know, yeah, I mean, your attacks have had an effect.
Because the only thing I've got is the truth. And then England is moving to ban all national speech, all Christian speech.
I mean, I just had a EU member of parliament on breaking it down. This is going on.
And if people don't have an immediate seat of this and realize how serious it is, we're going to lose everything.
Because folks, if they can take the First Amendment in America, they can take it all.
So I talk about t-shirts here and there. I used to really promote them because they're walking billboards for Info Wars.
You meet like-minded people. You have an effect. And I call it choose your adventure, but I really haven't been promoting them for about a year. I should.
During the election, the Hillary for President shirts were a big success.
And when the media saw a third of the public at the RNC wearing them, it really flipped them out, Hillary for President.
But whether it's a ball cap or whether it's a t-shirt or a Molan Labe, we've got over 100 t-shirts, patches, ball caps, sweatshirts, hoodies, you name it.
Women's apparel. Gold leaf Molan Labe is one of the women's favorite.
Cut for a woman more athletic. You've got that classic Big Brother t-shirt that was out of print. We brought back right there on screen.
We've got the yellow. Won't tread on me. When you go there and you get these shirts, just choose your own adventure.
Remember those books from your kid that had like three or four different endings or board games? They had those too.
I mean, you wear one of these things in a libertarian, patriot, conservative area. You're going to meet a lot of friends.
You might get your piece of pie or coffee bought for you at the diner. That's what happens to me. People don't know who I am in some areas. They do it.
You wear it in kind of a mainline mall. You'll meet, you know, 10 fans to one enemy. You wear it in a liberal trendy area like downtown Austin, downtown San Francisco.
You might get physically attacked or coffee dumped on your head.
It's choose your own adventure wearing one of these hundred plus shirts at infowarstore.com.
There's the first t-shirt we ever put out. Mass murderers agree gun control works.
Put your Hitler, Stalin and Mao on the back. It says politicians love disarmed peasants. They're all there.
There's also limited edition shirts of the month, but I suggest people choose their own adventure and go get a t-shirt today.
And yes, when you fund us, then all the crap sorrows and the rest of them pull gets defeated.
Everybody else though, when Trump got elected, I've talked to them all for the daily caller, to world net daily, to all of them.
Their traffic didn't go down that much, but their funding went down 50 plus percent.
And so we're the middle of the major fight now that we've gotten a beachhead and restoring the Republic.
They're counter-offencing right now and info wars is the only operation that continue the audience despite the censorship and continue the capital.
But now a year and a half into it, the capital is slowing and I am full in like I've done before when things slow.
I start spending whatever reserves we have. Just I'm just I want to defeat the globalist. That's my goal.
It's not have the bigger, you know, private jet, you know, so I can show off, you know, in Florida or DC or New York and look, I've got a big, you know, I fly coach a lot of the time,
especially if it's a big long distance flight. I'm not paying $6,000 for first class to Europe or whatever.
I will try to choose a flight though that isn't full last minute and then I'll sit with three seats and like lay over sideways.
I've done that quite a and it's not because I'm even a penny pitcher. I just I need that money for the war.
The media knows how frugal I am and focus. They go, look, he's got a lot of wristwatches.
Well, yeah, because people know I wear a wristwatch. I've been given like five the last year.
I gave two wristwatches away last week. Tim Verjay walks in and says, here's a wristwatch. You said you like mine.
I'm like, whatever. But that's the games they play in the media. They have like shows on HBO and on Comedy Central going, look, Jones is wearing four different watches.
It's just this game. So you don't fund me. I'm not Bezos. They 12 billion in one day off insider deals and taxpayer funded stuff.
Matt brackets coming up with analysis for a segment and a half. Then we're going to turn the baton over to the folks that are guest hosting.
Anthony Cumi always does a great job. Paul watches on will be tomorrow. He was under the weather Tuesday. So that's coming up.
But secondarily plugging is I didn't really plug good today. We have two of our best selling items, ultimate turmeric formula bodies.
95% curcumin and level. Nobody else we found. It's got that 400 plus milligrams of turmeric alone in each horse pill.
50% off on that and 50% off on all super blue.
Mouth teeth and gum care products. That's the mouthwash. It's the immune gargle of three different sizes. It's the children's and adults.
Super blue, four to five o'clock little silver and iodine. The children's doesn't have the tea tree or the really strong organic peppermint.
It's just too strong for kids, but it's still a concentrated toothpaste. People go, man, it's weird. This tube lasts to me three months.
Normal tube and toothpaste last a month or a year. Yeah, it's concentrated. We don't have fillers.
It's made by the top organic producer in the country. We talked about who they were. It wasn't contractually bound, but now they got harassed.
They said, please stop saying that we make your stuff or find another manufacturer. That's the intimidation goes on in this country.
So get your super blue or your bodies today. And also we're about to end these specials next week as we're getting ready to sell out of the super blue products, at least two of them, the adult super blue and the mouthwash.
That plenty of the children's right now. For God's sake, give your children the best toothpaste, folks. It really is thousands of five-star reviews. And then don't forget, we have DNA Force Plus, now stronger, now more PQQ, now more CoQ10, at a lower price.
That signed a big year contract and bought even more of it. It is, introductory 50% off, out of the gates.
Matt Bragg and former Navy SEAL best-selling author, researcher, frequent Infowars host will join us for two segments on the other side to look at the war between Israel and Iran that I think is pretty much already kicked off and what's going on beneath the surface.
Because he served in the Middle East and is an expert on Hezbollah. We'll talk about it all on the other side of the Infowar.
There's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals, including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
Infowars life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with Infowars life-selects storable foods.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Years ago, Infowars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Let's hook up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
In the history of InfowarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're fighting the tip of the spear in the Infowars.
That's InfowarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
All right, Matt Bracken joins us. Appreciate him coming on the day I commandeered most of this hour because I got behind on some big announcements.
He understands that. He was stationed on the Middle East, terrorism expert, you know, he always poo-poo's, oh, I've no big deals in ABC.
He'll only do a lot more today, which I know they have a lot more missions, but he's an author, a great researcher.
When I found about him like four years ago, really smart people at the Pentagon who are patriots said, you don't know who Matt Bracken is, he really gets what's going on.
Without us giving you much classified stuff, Matt doesn't need to know classified stuff.
He really is dialed in from an intuitive level. You ought to have Matt on.
So now he's a good friend. I'll invite him soon to come to Austin, Texas and coach with us here in studio, best-selling author of a whole bunch of different books.
The website's enemies, foreign and domestic. So again, he joins us right now.
Matt, there's so much to get into in the limited time we have in this segment and in one more here.
But obviously, the whole situation kicking off the Middle East, I don't like Irene.
But Trump pulls out of the deal. Israel strikes that base south of Damascus.
Now Tit for Tat is going to escalate very quickly. I like the peace deal with North Korea, and I get this as part of peace through strength.
So I want to reserve judgment. I don't want to just jump on the president because he's been proven right time and time again.
I think he's just pragmatically like you and others have said, like a house is full of termites. He's going and tearing out the bad parts.
We can have somebody else come in and a nice finishing carpenter later.
He's proven that, you know, he really knows what he's doing, or at least his advisors do.
At the same time, though, where this whole thing's drifting doesn't look too good.
I get before Obama did this bad Iran deal that there was already missiles firing back and forth and bombings every week.
And so this is just kind of that deal, but being broken goes back to the same.
So I don't blame Trump for that. I just don't quite understand it.
So what do you think is an expert on this from your own research?
Well, in the last year, there's been a pretty big realignment or actually a really affirming of sort of a new Middle East alignment with Israel and the Sunnis,
plus the USA versus Iran and Iran's allies.
Now, the Saudis and the Gulf states would like to run some gas pipelines from the south right through Syria up to Europe.
And that would directly conflict with what the Iranians want and the Russians,
which is a military route straight from Iran to the Mediterranean.
And if you look at a map of Syria, it's like a wedge shape.
And the southern corner of that wedge is right up against the Golan Heights.
So Israel has an existential fear of being encircled by their greatest enemy so that they won't have really any kind of warning time,
like missiles flying from Iran proper.
They're afraid of being massively attacked by Iranian forces that have massively infiltrated Syria under the cover of this civil war.
Now, we're in Syria too, but we only have really a tripwire force.
They don't do much action there other than being bait for big air attacks,
like when the Russian mercenaries tried to attack some of our allies.
We used our forces as bait and then used gunships and drones to kill a lot of Russian mercenaries.
But we don't have anything like the forces that Iran is putting into Syria.
For Israel, this is an existential threat.
Now, Israel, diplomatically speaking, is a superpower.
They have an immense amount of influence, it is safe to say.
Some would say that they have too much influence, and for example, Pat Buchanan, I have a lot of respect for him.
He wants us to just stay out of the deal completely.
And essentially, if Iran is going to become a regional superpower, it's none of our business.
So there are huge forces at work right now.
I've been reading up on these strikes.
It's not getting the kind of coverage.
Maybe it's in the eclipse of the Korea news, but these are the biggest attacks some are saying since 2011.
Some are saying the biggest attacks since Yom Kippur War.
Really big air raids targeting Iranian forces all over Syria.
So this could very well be the first ending of an Iran-Israel war at a time when Israel thinks America and the Saudis
will be solidly on their side, dragged into this war on the side of Israel.
So they're attempting to leverage this historical moment to be able to fight Iran with full diplomatic backing of the Saudis and the USA.
That's right. You're absolutely... So here's the headline.
The stars have aligned for an Israeli-Iran war.
Israel knows that Iran is sworn to destroy it, and that they're only gaining a technological prowess.
So Israel now believes the time is right to move.
So they preemptively an hour after Trump withdrew from the deal, were obviously green-lighted by the White House,
to then hit this missile site.
Iran has taken the bait.
It is now being sucked in.
And I told listeners yesterday and some poo-pooed it.
But the reason you've seen almost no coverage day one and day two, now you're seeing some coverage,
of this war heating up, is that Trump is now exercising executive power during a civil emergency to direct the media not to cover it.
And that's in all the executive orders that Obama has the kill switch, all that was put in.
Trump has now inherited all that control, Matt Bracken.
It's impossible. It's impossible. One rocket gets covered. It's the top story.
This is all going on for over a day.
There was only one Fox News story, zero on CNN.
Matt, we all know that means that the president through the Pentagon put out its feelers.
What do you think?
And this is an area where false flags and preemptive strikes have been the norm for decades and decades.
Going back to the 67 war with the Israeli attack on the liberty,
which was sort of like a botched false flag attack, probably, although it's still extremely mysterious.
But then we have the recent probable false flag gas attacks blamed on the Assad regime.
So if Israelis are saying that the Iranians fired into the Golan Heights, I wouldn't necessarily take that at face value.
This is an area rife with false flags and preemptive attacks.
I was about to say, Trump pulled the funding for the White Helmets last week,
and even mainline German news and others have confirmed that no chemical attack happened.
Yeah. I don't know how much time we have in this segment, but I was watching Godfrey Bloom the last hour.
And I really wanted to salute that man, and it just makes me very emotional to see him.
He's like a stay behind in occupied Britannia stand.
These are the men that fought in Tobruk and El Alamon and Operation Market Garden D-Day,
and to see them reduced to vassals in their own nation where it's an act of courage to wave a sword
that was issued to him by the British Army is now an act of defiance to say,
in my own home, I will use this to defend myself against an attacker is now considered anti-social behavior.
And he is essentially daring the British government now to cut off his social media as a social,
there's a term for the social bad guy law.
I forget the term Tommy Roberts.
They're now saying six months in jail, we criticize Muslims.
And any place where Islamic blasphemy laws become enforced, whether it's by Muslims or by a dimmy country,
a state full of quizlings, anytime you see Islamic blasphemy laws enforced, Sharia is coming.
First, they cut off your ability to criticize it like in Sweden or Germany or Britain.
And then you see out and out Islamic schools, you know, with children yelling Allah Akbar.
Oh, they're making kids in England now wear burkas.
And I used to hear people 20 years ago warn about this, how they were crazy.
I didn't get it. Parliamentary wise, we've got more than 10, 15 parties in these countries.
If the Muslims are 10, 15%, they can then all vote as a group and then take over any election they want.
That's why they've already checkmated most of Europe.
Right. And especially in urban, in urban core cities, which are the critical districts, as we know,
even going to, for example, French Revolution, it doesn't matter if 90% of France was against the Jacobins.
Once they control Paris and the main cities, they can then fan out into the countryside with the guillotines.
And that's how they'll extend Sharia.
And just like the Bolsheviks for two years only had Moscow.
Right. And speaking of the Bolsheviks, when those soldiers came back from World War One with their Mosin Nagans,
their swords, they were disarmed.
And now a British army veteran, it's an act of defiance to wave a sword on a video.
And I salute his...
That's a good point. I mean, just for saying, he'll defend himself. That's a hate crime.
Right. And now he's like basically thrown the gauntlet down at the Nanny State to say,
what are you going to do? Are you going to arrest a British veteran and take away his British army sword?
Is that what you're really going to do?
It's amazing.
My last novel, of course, it took place in Ireland and UK.
It's made up of SAS veterans on a counter-Jihad mission to rescue girls where their own government won't rescue them.
So was it a red glimpse of black in Arizona or on the air worldwide? Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America
and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The Super Blue is awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
We can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves. We can take our country back.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Waging War on Corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
Here's the deal. They have the public plans, the collergy plan, collergy plan, all that, to openly turn Europe into the Middle East.
And they're doing it. And so the one thing I had a blind spot on, and I've been on here 23 years, and I read a lot of geopolitical stuff and knew what I was doing when I got on here,
but I'm obviously a lot more informed now, is that I'd hear all this about global caliphate, turn the Muslims loose, and Hitler had a plan and collergy plan and all of it.
And I just couldn't believe that our own elites would be that suicidal or crazy. But now it's happening.
So this is the one area that I've been 15 years behind the curve on. I'll admit it, because I just cannot believe how crazy our elites are.
Matt Bracken, can you speak to that? I mean, why would we take victory and success and technology and everything and then subserve to some stone age rotten woman abusing thing
and then have leftist lecture us how England invented slavery when England ended it and how horrible America is.
I just, it makes me sick. I don't even know. It's like a nightmare. It's a joke.
Yeah, the socialists and the Islamists, the Mohammedans, they both promote a totalitarian ideology that essentially turns an area into a serfdom.
But it's great for the people on top. In Venezuela, for example, socialist serfdom, the Morales family, Hugo Chvez family, excuse me, they became fabulously wealthy.
I think his sister is a billionaire, lives in Florida. So you can become wealthy by inventing something and creating a new product.
That's difficult. You have to be smart, hardworking. Or you just have a communist takeover.
Right. And so they sell serfdom as Marxism and the dumber people are, the easier it is to sell.
You know, we're going to take it from the rich and give it to you. Yay.
So the more low IQ third worlders they bring into a country, the better it is for those who want to turn the country into a socialist serfdom and it's working.
You know, if I have a moment, I want to, the t-shirt promotions really made me think of this. I've been working on a little essay and it's about a new concept I'd like to introduce called skylining.
It's related to being in a coma, a coma and canary, but it's much more than that. You know, if you're a hunter or if you're a soldier, skylining is a bad thing.
It means you don't want to walk on the ridge because your outline is visible against the sky. You're an easy target.
But sometimes you have to skyline. I'll give you an example. If a fire base has been under attack, been sniped, mortared, rocketed, but it's dying down.
A lot of the troops are just hiding in foxholes. They're staying in the bunker. They won't come out and do the work that's required. They won't get back to their mission.
The old sergeant major, you know, the old Godfrey Blooms, they have to stand up in sight of potential snipers as an example to their troops to be courageous.
Well, wasn't that what the Alamo was? Because, I mean, they say that Travis knew he was 80% chance going to die, but he had to make the example of the sacrifice to stir everybody up to have the victory.
It's not just an intentional sacrifice. What I'm talking about, it's when you have to convey to your troops that the enemy would like us to just hide.
We have to have faith in our combat patrols and our counter snipers, that it is safe, that we can stand up and work by wearing an Info Wars shirt, by tuning into Info Wars, by talking about...
You get out of the bullying. You're saying we break the bullying.
Right, because most people are timid. Most people are sheep.
Hold on. We've got another guest who's coming up, who always does an amazing job, but he'll be happy if you finish this point. This is central.
Scientists believe what you're saying. We have to wear the colors proud. We have to break the will of the bullies. We have to get out there and start the offensive, because there's a lot of folks that aren't cowards, but they're not leaders, and they're waiting for somebody to pull the pin on the hand grenade.
And we've got to do it. We'll be back to break down skylining with our guest, Mad Bracken.
I'm so excited. The new product at InfoWarsLife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate, because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw of medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
You know, we're getting into psychological stuff here, and I don't go off textbooks, I don't go off all the establishments terms for things, as most of us garbage, I just go with history in my gut. And I see people so scared of being attacked by mainstream media, being demonized.
But if you go along with it, it creates total stagnation, it creates collapse of civilization. When you're being led by bad people, conformity is not good.
Things are going well, and society is open, and you're unified overall, you've still got a few, you know, bad people, but that's their free will. Then it's good to conform. I'm ready to conform. I want it to conform right now.
Believe me, I don't enjoy going around, you know, getting all these fights. But at a gut level, I do enjoy it at a spiritual level, because it's got to be done.
And I remember years ago, I ended up having a few meetings with globalists and high-level folks, some of which I've been able to talk about because they weren't even private meetings.
John Harmon heard one of the meetings with the head of the Kissinger Group trying to get me to join them. And they would always say, don't you get it? We don't carry her out there, you're just scaring the public for us.
And I thought, well, I don't think the public's a bunch of cowards, at least the people I'm looking for. I'm telling them how bad this is, because I think if I do something bad was happening, I don't want to mobilize against it.
Instead of fight or flight, it's just resistance mode. And so you were getting into skylining to finish up Matt Bracken, former Navy Silver Selling author, about, instead of, you know, hiding down, now is the time to be out in the open.
That's what Trump has done, the ultimate skyliner, to say, free market, America, family, free speech, they try to all demonize it like it's dirty, like it's bad, and throw everything they've got against it.
But people instinctively know it's a fraud, and now as Trump has success and everything starts turning around, like the sun coming up, they are going into total panic mode.
So finish up with skylining and where you think they're going to strike next, that it becomes apparent their agenda is failing, that Anthony Comey, the head of compound media, is taking over.
Yeah, that's a great point. Trump is the ultimate skyliner. He's doing this not only so that he can move the helm, the ship of the state's wheel, but he is actually purposefully putting himself up as a big target.
A strong man saying, don't be afraid. That's why they're throwing everything, including the kitchen sink at him. They know if he succeeds, more will follow, more will rise.
They want to beat him down, impeach him, make him fail, so that no other future billionaire or populist will rise up because they know that all the guns will be aimed at them.
And that's why shows like Info Wars are so important. They're an example that you don't have to sell out to the networks. You know, you don't have to sell out to some billionaire backers that you can do it on your own.
And just a suggestion, because I was never a big fan of sticking glue bumper stickers on a nice car, you can get a magnetic bumper sticker, same size.
You put your bumper sticker on it. That way you can slap your Info Wars bumper sticker on when you want it. But if you're afraid you're going to some place where your car is going to get vandalized because that's what they do, you can pull it off.
But I mean, we should put out magnet based ones where you can be tactical, put it on your car where a thousand people see on a road trip, a hundred going to work, pull it off, slap it on, and then you're tactical. That's smart.
Yeah, there's, I had, I bought a three pack. I just looked on, you know, on the internet and I got a three pack for a couple bucks and they just are a big black, you know, vinyl magnet.
You put any bumper sticker on there, some I cut down. But that way, like you said, you go on a road trip, thousands of people will see your Info Wars, you know, the forbidden.
The real victory mindset is none of us are going to do it all alone. Every little bit executed, calling into C-SPAN, going to speaking at city council, going to a congressional meeting, going to the state house, talking to young people, handing out bumper stickers, you know, supporting a broadcast.
All of that moves the ball forward and it's that will of the people like bail off grabbing Grendel by the arm that is unstoppable force.
And even on social media, retweet. I constantly see, you know, a hundred likes and four retweets. Are people afraid? I mean, if you're too timid to retweet a message today, a conservative, you know, nationalist message today.
You're not going to fight tomorrow.
You think it's going to be easier later?
Yeah. Let's say people don't get because I'm all about guns and I'm all about the Second Amendment, but the first comes first. It's always, well, the UN comes all killing. It won't be the UN. It'll be UN brainwashed police.
If you won't fight in the Info War today, you will not fight when the real time comes and we don't want to go there. And it's not that I'm even afraid to go on there, man, to be a lot easier than animal level.
I mean, you know, everybody knows we killens like eating or sitting on the toilet. I mean, it's just like part of a bodily function.
We're trying to do the real intellectual work here. And that's the one. The final thing the globalists don't get is they think we're intimidated by him.
We're just scared of once we get violent, the collateral damage and not executing it correctly. But I think once it goes to the next level, these people are all going to be in deep trouble.
That's right. But unfortunately, it might take, you know, it might send us into a period of terrible anarchy and destruction that will not help anybody.
But we do need to stop being so polite. We need to take off the gloves, realize...
That's it. If we don't get tough and get aggressive in the information war, we're ensuring the physical war.
People need to understand. Socialists and Islamists both believe in strategic deception. They lie.
It's their part of their code is to lie to the nonbelievers, to the suckers. So you can't be polite and take them at face value.
When the Imam comes to town and says, I'm a moderate Muslim, dig in. Find out where he's really been. Find out what he says in Arabic.
Because they use strategic deception.
And that's the good news is us being aggressive has forced them out in the open to really show who they are.
And that's Trump's genius of the skyliner. Matt Bracken, enemiesfarndomestic.com, all your great books there.
Thank you so much, my friend. Thank you.
Now, joining us is Anthony Cumi of compoundmedia.com. Everybody should go there. Check out, subscribe. The great work he's doing.
He's taking over the next 45 minutes. Thanks for letting us jump in there. I got behind today. Good to see you back from vacation.
All rested up. But I think that's what he's saying is we now know they're authoritarian. They're not back and down.
You have the number one show on XM number one, you know, on the morning, a commercial radio got kicked off every time because you're more libertarian.
You've already been through it. We're now back against the wall. We don't have a choice. I'm going to let you take over.
Thanks for coming in compoundmedia.com Anthony Cumi. Thank you so much, my friend.
Alex, absolutely. I was just listening to that amazing stuff.
And when you think about, I watch a lot of war documentaries and don't be mistaken. We're at war right now.
I watch a lot of war documentaries and you'll see when a platoon is pinned down, they need inspiration.
One guy will stand up and charge forward. And these other people, without even thinking, get up and move and start charging forward this guy.
We need more people to show, hey, look, there's a light at the end of this tunnel. There's a crack in the, in the armor.
It's time to stand up, move, not be afraid anymore. People are petrified of being called things.
They're being petrified of losing their jobs and their reputations and relationships because you're called some type of ist or fobe.
No, get out there on social media. Use your name. Be brave. We have to be. We're pushing back finally.
We're finally pushing back and seeing the result of this. They're losing their minds and I couldn't be happier.
But we do need more people that are going to look at others taking that lead and follow suit and get in there and mix it up and debate and show that a lot of what they're getting from mainstream media are blatant lies.
Exactly. Do we really want to live on our knees to a bunch of bullies that are always going to want more, more, more, more, more?
No, the danger is giving into these people. The safe way, we're not just looking to fight here, but we are instinctive levels.
Why do you and I instinctively get it as you go to break that we got to fight? Why do other people not get this?
This is so obvious. America is all about fighting.
Isn't it obvious? I'm dumbfounded at times where I'm like, how could you look at what we've seen from mainstream media, Hollywood, Washington and not just know it's uttering complete crap.
And we've been fed it for decades upon decades. Finally, the covers come off and some people are still absolutely blind to it.
And it's beyond me. I don't know what you have to do to open some of these people's eyes, but they are being open.
And I do see a lot of people are getting educated as to the mainstream media and how they've been...
I totally agree. And even though I just grew a trumpet a few things, it's so beautiful what he's doing. I just love the guy.
Anthony Cumbia takes over on the other side of this quick break.
Tom, how many of dot com, Alex Jones, then FullWars.com and coming up in 45 minutes to the war room with Owen Schroyer, Roger Stone and so much more.
Stay with us.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSanBuck.com.
Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve. Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the Infowar. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield at InfowarsLive.com.
And now, your host, Anthony Cumia.
Hi, quality, nascent iodine survival shield X2 at InfowarsStore.com.
We found out recently we may have difficult time sourcing the powerful ingredient in survival shield X2,
which can make the supply limited.
Derived from ancient sea salts deep beneath the surface, our popular X2 formula is the evolution of our original survival shield supplement
manufactured in a state licensed facility and taking advantage of powerful ingredients.
The Infowars team worked day and night to bring you the most powerful and affordable nascent iodine formula around
to help keep your body healthy and strong with iodine deficiency seen as one of the biggest public health problems.
Now is the time to take care of your body with survival shield X2.
Yes, where to begin, people, welcome Anthony Cumia in here at Infowars.com.
And oh my God, I'm not tired of winning yet.
I got to be honest, my winning threshold pretty damn high.
And as you remember, Donald Trump during his campaign said, you're going to get tired of winning.
I'm not there yet. I'll tell you who is everyone on the left.
Oh my God, it is. I got to tell you, it's so fun.
Sometimes if you're watching a sporting event or whatnot, you might start feeling sorry for the opposing team.
If they're just getting blown out, your team just looks awesome.
You just lay off on the taunts. You're not looking at them crying and feeling good about it anymore.
Not with this. I got to be honest with you.
Last night, I stayed up about 12 hours ago now.
I stayed up and watched the three hostages, yes hostages, being returned from North Korea to joint base Andrews,
joined by the president, the first lady, Pence, his wife, and our new secretary of state.
It was an amazing thing to behold.
Was it over the top? Was it purposefully put on television and the president had to be there?
Of course, he did something amazing that no one expected could be done,
especially in such a short period of time.
With all the negative press that this president gets, no matter what he does, good for him,
good for him that he had the cameras there and the flag and the planes.
It was an amazing moment as well as it should be.
I go on Twitter and I really do have a solid choice.
I could go on Twitter or I could bang my head against the wall.
For some reason, I pick the more painful of the two going on Twitter.
I should really just bang my head against the brick wall.
I'm on Twitter and I'm like, alright, the president has really done some amazing stuff as of yet with his presidency.
This being the latest thing, bringing hostages back to America.
I'm looking at Twitter and thinking, alright, the tax cuts.
You got some people that aren't going to like that for some bizarre reason.
The record lows, especially in some of our minority demographics here in this country,
of unemployment over the years, the GDP.
There's a cavalcade of things that this president has done for the good of the country.
You'll always get fights on Twitter, always.
I'm thinking last night, as I said, I'm watching it live and gone, there's nothing.
Nothing anyone can say bad about this.
Of course there is.
Of course there is.
Because Donald Trump was behind it.
It really does.
It is an amazing litmus test as to how far the progressive left will go to try to discredit this president.
He brings three Americans who are imprisoned in what could possibly be the most totalitarian run country on the face of the earth,
known for torture and murder of prisoners.
As we saw at the last, what's his name, the poor little kid?
Owen that was murdered by the North Koreans.
And they still have crap to say about it.
They can't give him anything, not an inch.
So we heard, oh, well, he's just buying an auto.
I'm sorry, auto warm beer.
Owen, I'm terrible with names.
And they're saying he bought into the North Korean propaganda machine.
Oh my God.
They actually, some people that I was reading and watching interviews on news on mainstream media, amazing.
And you'd hear things like he's giving away a position before getting to the bargaining table.
How is getting hostages back, giving away anything?
North Korea literally handed over three prisoners that we never expected to see again.
And somehow that's Trump screwing up these future negotiations we're going to see in early June in Singapore
when Trump meets with Kim Jong-un face to face.
And somehow they've twisted this around to make it a bad thing.
And like I said, it is the litmus test.
You have to look at that and say to yourself, what's the motivation here?
I read, I watch his opponents on television.
And you have to wonder why, why on earth would they criticize this?
Well, because their queen didn't win the election.
He did.
Donald Trump did.
And they are livid about it.
And anything this guy does, they will deem poisonous to our nation and its people.
It was just, it was amazing to watch.
Another thing that's amazing is this guy's energy is second to none.
Guys in his 70s, he's up at 3am.
He's on a plane with these gentlemen that were released.
And then tonight, I believe at like 7pm, he's got a rally.
He's going to another campaign rally.
This guy, I don't want to get out of bed.
I don't even want to get out of bed on a daily basis.
And this guy's winging all over the place and doing what a president should be doing.
He's transparent.
He's out there.
He's doing for America.
And again, the left just will not ever give him an ounce of credit.
So don't look for it.
Don't expect it.
And don't base your opinion on what the president's doing on what the left is saying.
They will never give this guy the time of day.
We'll be back in a matter of moments, Anthony Kumiya, in at infowars.com.
I got to obviously thank Alex Jones.
It's been a while.
I was on vacation, but I'm back and enjoying the hell out of it.
I'll see you in a couple of minutes.
Don't go anywhere, infowars.com.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 187799 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 187799 BERKEY.
For daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue's Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue's Silver Immune Gargle only available at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
InfowarsLife selects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfowarsLife selects storeable foods.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfowarsLife Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine Flora Life Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfowarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today!
The Alex Jones Show and now your host, Anthony Kumiya.
Hello, welcome back Infowars.com, Anthony Kumiya.
Right before that break we were talking about mainstream media and the liberal left mainstream media.
And how they will not give Donald Trump the time of day when it comes to giving him a good story.
I heard yesterday that there is some hope that the negative reporting rate on mainstream media about our president
went from 91% negative stories to 90% negative stories.
So, good job, good job. We're getting there, we're getting there.
Can you imagine, on a daily basis, I'm not talking about things he said during the campaign that people were offended by or his tweeting.
People twisted around everything this guy said to suit their agenda.
I'm talking about substantial things that this president has done as far as taxes go.
And helping out America, getting our worldview back up there again, our foreign policy.
Obama was the apology president going around bowing to leaders of other nations and apologizing for our excellence.
Trump doesn't do that, but again, I mean just negative story after negative story.
And I guess in between him freeing three Americans from North Korea and doing a rally tonight in front of adoring fans,
Trump announces capture most wanted ISIS terrorists who were lured from Syria to Iraq with mobile phone app.
What, grinder? What, it wasn't grinder or tinder or something? Of course it was.
So, they captured four most wanted. I mean, that's five.
Five of the most wanted leaders in ISIS have been captured.
I hope they weren't the JV team, the junior varsity team that Obama talked about at the beginning of this whole ISIS debacle.
Remember that one? And again, on Twitter where I should be banging my head against the wall, I hear it all the time.
Oh, why bring up Obama? Why bring up Obama?
He has nothing to do with this. It's a Trump. He's the president now.
Because Trump has spent the first year in office unscrewing what Obama screwed up when he was in office.
So he has to enter the conversation somewhere.
But yeah, so last night we watched Trump do that. Of course we have the big meeting between Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump scheduled for I think June 7th.
Was it over in Singapore? And I mean, think about this.
What if, and I know it's an if, but if he swings ending the Korean War, ending the Korean War and actually works on denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula,
what more does the president have to do to literally be the greatest president ever?
It's astounding. I just can't imagine if that does transpire.
And again, it's an if, but things are moving in the right direction.
And we've already gone leaps and bounds beyond what any other president has done as far as dealing with North Korea over the course of decades.
But I mean, again, we will just, we will not see it. Do not watch mainstream media and think you're going to get an accurate assessment of what the president's been doing.
You won't. It's not in their agenda.
There's the holy trinity of liberal garbage and it's DC, it's why the mainstream media and Hollywood. And they are the people that have the most say as far as what everyone in this country hears and sees.
News, movies, television, they can brainwash a population.
And for some reason, when the likes of Rosie O'Donnell or whoopee Goldberg speak, people are inclined to what, believe that?
I don't think so.
I think their influence is way overrated, especially of late. I think a lot of people are realizing that there are people out there trying to hoodwink you, trying to bamboozle you into believing something that just isn't so.
Whether you like Donald Trump or not, whether you think he has a good bedside manner.
Would you like a president or a surgeon, let's say? If you had a horrible disease and you had to pick a surgeon, would you want an eloquent speaker who screws everything up?
Or would you want some guy that might not have the best bedside manner and way of putting things, but he gets the job done?
I'll go with the second guy. That's what I'll do.
People have been so used to politicians over the course of the years, politicians, that they don't know what to do when they're being spoken to by a real person anymore.
We've grown so accustomed to seeing these people at the podium throwing out this political speech and thinking they're actually representing us.
And then you get a guy like Donald Trump gets up there with nothing to lose, no agenda. You don't have an agenda.
That guy's rich. He just sit on his ass all day. He could have just done that, continued doing what he's doing.
But over the course of many years, you've seen him talk about this country and what he would like to see.
He actually gets elected president and he's doing it.
You just don't see that. And there are plenty of Republicans also that just don't like this at all.
John McCain. Democrats and Republicans because they are, a lot of them are one in the same.
They're professional politicians. That's their job.
Picture you doing your job. You're at work. You're doing your job.
And this, let's just say a blithering idiot comes up and starts doing your job better than you.
And of course I'm saying you believe he's a blithering idiot, but he's doing your job better than you are.
And the boss is taking notice and people are saying, wow, that guy's good.
And then you don't think you're going to start looking at everybody else and going, what have they been doing the whole time?
If this guy can do the job better, what the hell have you people been doing?
Well, that's what everyone in Washington is thinking when Donald Trump does stuff.
Because they have been holding us hostage, lying to us for their own gains.
Every one of these people are millionaires.
How does a public service job where you're supposed to be the representative of the people,
how do you become a millionaire like that?
You don't think there's a problem there?
And then they're speaking to you about how you should use your money and how much of your money you should be allowed to keep?
Are we really that brainwashed over the course of the years?
I think we were. And I think it took someone like Trump to finally rip the covers off of this stuff.
Like I said, you don't like him. You don't like the way he speaks.
You don't like he's exposing a lot of the garbage that has been preventing us from being the best we can be as a country and on an individual basis.
We'll talk about it more on the other side of the break.
But I want to talk about Whoopi Goldberg on the view saying that she can't even fathom, can't see it, doesn't think it exists.
Anything that Donald Trump has done for African Americans in America, you would actually have to avoid it.
You don't even have to look for it and go, I can't find it.
You'd have to try to avoid what he has done for Americans.
And like I said, we'll talk about it after this break, for Americans.
It doesn't have to be split up into little different mosaics and demographics, Americans, that everyone benefits.
We will be right back. Please do not venture too far from your viewing device.
Anthony Kumi in Infowars.com. See you in a couple.
Frank in North Carolina, thanks for holding so long. Go ahead.
I just have to say something, man. It seems like every time I turn on your broadcast, you're bragging.
It just gets old now.
I'm going to shut you down right now, okay?
We're taking calls about your nomination. Do you understand they're having congressional hearings trying to shut us down?
Do you understand I'm ringing the alarm? If that was happening to anybody else, I'd be freaked out.
I mean, what's it going to take us being shut down? Is that what you want, Frank?
You know what, Alex?
I put him on pause again. Hey, Frank, do you understand it's not bragging to say we are the tip of the spear, we're under attack, we need your help?
As much begging as I do, we can barely pay the bills and grow in the face of this.
I'm not going to just stop growth and let them start pushing us backwards.
Do you understand I need your help, Frank? I need your help, Frank.
Go to InfowarsStore.com right now and help fund the Infowars.
Do you understand I need your help, Frank? Free press needs your help, Frank.
InfowarsLife and InfowarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight the globalist and limit a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest,
most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
To smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law-abiding
until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness.
And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage.
The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country and our freedom
is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
I'm the National Rifle Association of America and I'm Freedom's Safest Place.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
News, analysis, reports, it's the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Anthony Cumia.
All SuperBlue fluoride free products are 50% off retail price at InfowarsStore.com for a limited time.
We at the Infowars team want you to try our powerful line of SuperBlue fluoride free products,
fluoride free products, not fluoride free products.
Please, with options ranging from toothpaste, mouthwash, oral spray,
and even a complete option that comes with all products and free shipping,
there's no better way to try it with 50% off.
SuperBlue fluoride free toothpaste is the classic fan favorite toothpaste
for a happier, healthier smile, experienced nano silver and iodine at 50% off
for those looking for a sweeter, healthier toothpaste.
SuperBlue fluoride free toothpaste bubblegum flavor is the perfect pick.
Also 50% off featuring natural oils and ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
And their breath was really fresh.
SuperBlue mouthwash is going to help supercharge your oral health for minty fresh breath
and round out your daily routine with SuperBlue silver immune gargle.
It's all new powerhouse multi-purpose hand and oral purifying formula.
Wow, for on the go or at home lowest price it's ever been 50% off.
Finally, for all those that want to try it, there's a SuperBlue complete combo.
50% off on trying one of every fluoride free formula we offer and it includes free shipping.
We're stocking up on this fan favorite formula line to make sure all of our fellow Info Warriors
can have a clean happy smile without all those toxins.
Try a bottle today with this low price. It's 50% off.
You're saving at InfoWarsStore.com.
Woo! Man, I need a little, I need a little of that gargle.
I was just on Twitter during the break and people were requesting that I do the SuperBlue toothpaste read.
They love it. Welcome back, Anthony Kumi and at InfoWars.com.
I was talking about a whoopee, whoopee Goldberg in the fine cackling hens of the view.
And whoopee actually said, she goes out, she goes, she cannot see that Donald Trump has done anything
for African Americans here in this country.
The news, how difficult it is for Trump to get any positive press.
Even the news has reported that unemployment amongst African Americans are at an all time low.
It's at an all time low in the United States of America. Amazing. Just an amazing thing.
And for some reason I guess whoopee missed that.
I guess she didn't, didn't notice that one.
The other thing I noticed is they have to word things.
What has Donald Trump done for African Americans?
What has Donald Trump done for gays and immigrants and everything's a subsector.
Like some special thing has to be doled out to every group.
Donald Trump seems to be doing things that are good for the country.
It really is what it's supposed to be.
If we're all equal, have the same opportunities in this grand nation of ours,
wouldn't the president then have to be somebody that makes the country a place
that you can prosper as an American, regardless of color, race, religion, whatever,
the sexual orientation, whatever you want.
If he's doing things that affect all Americans positively, doesn't that include African Americans?
Why is there always this need amongst liberal Democrats to make it this separate thing?
I don't see anything here that Donald Trump signed that says African American on it.
Yeah, what about everything that just helps Americans?
I've never seen a more divided people than I do amongst liberals.
They're constantly thinking in terms of skin color and religion and sexual orientation.
It's bizarre. It's just bizarre.
But for some reason, people clamor for it and read and think that Donald Trump isn't doing anything for a specific group.
He is Americans, and it's refreshing to see, because then no one feels like they're being left out.
When you cater to one group or another, a bunch of other subsectors and groups and demographics are going to be a little mad.
But if you're actually making things better for everybody, then it's just your choice.
Now it's up to you to utilize all the amazing tools and opportunities that this country offers to make something of yourself.
And if you don't do that, who do you got to blame?
That's right. I'm pointing right at you out there.
That's right. Hollywood is just, it's a disaster.
And I love that it's being exposed also, like mainstream media and Washington.
Hollywood's being exposed.
There are a bunch of, as my grandfather used to say, preverts.
What a bunch of preverts out there and their liars.
And they're trying to manipulate your ideas through their entertainment.
That sounds far-fetched.
Now, think about it for two seconds.
Watch commercials.
I never really thought I would be so into watching commercials.
But it's a study in brainwashing.
It's a study in indoctrination.
I see things in commercials that you don't see in real life.
And I live and work in New York.
I see every type of liberal ideology walking around and orientation, whether it's same sex, interracial, gender fluid.
I see it all here in New York.
It's a melting pot of debauchery.
But I see it.
And I don't see as much as I do when I watch any television commercial, especially on network television.
It's just insane.
You see people that you would see on Wall Street as the people that are robbing the house.
They're the ones robbing the house.
Every video I watch on YouTube or a live leak or anywhere where I see, oh, look at this.
It's a security camera catching a home invasion.
It never looks like the people in the commercials.
It's this purposeful thing to make straight white men look like blithering idiots.
There's always a woman there or a minority to help the poor, mentally challenged white man through his daily chores.
And if you don't think this is an agenda, you're out of your mind.
There is just this tragic story.
I'll finish up with this one.
If we're finished, I'm not even sure.
A tragic story.
There was a young boy at a gun show.
And he's dry firing a weapon and very interested in the action and everything and a girl's talking to him.
And he seems really happy with it.
It was safe, completely safe.
And people were on Twitter saying how this was a living nightmare, a hell.
It's a hell going on that this child is at an NRA convention and he's racking the action of a weapon.
Oh God, this whole country, by the way, has a tradition since its inception of fathers teaching their sons gun safety,
how to be proficient with a gun, whether it was in the old days where it was necessary for hunting, for food or for protection.
It's been a tradition in this country.
And then the same people tweet.
Yeah, there he is. Look at the little tyke.
And then the same people tweet a drag queen, nine year old, a nine year old drag queen and say, this is the future.
And we're here to see it like it's an amazing thing that people should be proud of.
This is terrible. The kid with the rifle, a cross-dressing nine year old being paraded in a sexual manner in front of adult men
who are also dressed like women is the future.
And that's what we should be focused on.
And that comes straight out of Hollywood, straight out of the liberal left.
Mainstream media praises it and presents it in a way that should be looked at as completely normal and fine.
And if you dare use words like child abuse or indoctrination, I absolutely believe when you take a child of six, seven, nine years old
and dress that child up like a girl, it's a boy, you dress him up like a girl and parade him around.
It is a brand new form of Munchausen syndrome by proxy.
That is when a mother, usually a mother, physically abuses or poisons a child so they can get attention by the nurses at a hospital.
Well, nowadays it's dress your kid like a girl and go around to all your friends and say, how amazing my gender fluid seven year old is.
And that's now the new normal thing.
A child with his dad using a rifle is terrible, even though that, like I said, since the inception of this country.
That's what it's been.
I'd love to have more time, but I'll see you next time.
Anthony Kumi and at Infowars.
Catch me at compoundmedia.com.
Until next time, Ariva Third Sheet.
Extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an Infowars Life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
