Long Island, New York knows exactly what Donald Trump meant when he directly referred to MS-13
as animals.
The MS-13 gang members I know about, if they don't wish a certain threshold, I cannot tell
ICE about them.
You wouldn't believe how bad these people are.
These aren't people.
These are animals.
This is a panel met for the second time to address the extreme violence perpetrated by
this gang of illegal aliens allowed to lurk on the streets of America.
Kayla and Nisa were murdered by MS-13 gang members, many of whom exploited glaring loopholes
and we have the biggest loopholes of any country anywhere in the world.
We have the worst immigration laws of any country anywhere in the world.
MS-13 is one of the most violent and formidable threats that our country faces today.
MS-13 leaders may operate out of prisons in El Salvador, but the gang is alive and well
in our streets.
It is estimated there are 10,000 MS-13 members in the United States, 2,000 are estimated to
be right here in Long Island and their ranks are continually being refilled with new emissaries
from El Salvador.
MS-13 is infiltrating our high schools, our middle schools, even our elementary schools.
We have doubled our arrest of MS-13 members under your command, President Trump.
In FY17, the first year, HSI ICE arrested 896 MS-13 leaders, members and associates.
They arrested another 4,800 total gang members throughout the United States to include MS-13.
In FY16, ICE has removed nearly 11,000 criminal gang members.
Specifically about New York, the target of MS-13 on Long Island is one of the primary
goals of ICE because New York is under attack.
With a cooperative focus on sources and intelligence, our ongoing initiative, we arrested in the
past year 300 MS-13 criminal arrests here in Long Island.
In more than 40 percent of those, we have verified our unaccompanied alien children.
It is a problem.
There is a connection.
I want to thank everyone for being here and Mr. President, thank you again for listening
to us and our needs in eradicating these MS-13 individuals.
My daughter Kayla was a beautiful girl, she had dreams and they took that away from her.
That's not right.
On how these kids were murdered, tortured, is unacceptable.
We should not be tolerating this behavior at all whatsoever.
There are people who are in Congress who have pledged to oppose and obstruct everything and
anything saying they cannot work with you because if they work with you, they'll legitimize
your presidency.
You're elected president of the United States, they're elected to serve in Congress, they
took an oath, they need to protect our constituents here, they need to protect their own, they
need to work with you because you're putting your neck out there on the line, they need
to do it as well even if they're taking a tough vote for their constituents.
Still the left is doubling down, Washington Post columnist EJ Dionne recently wrote,
It's never right to call other human beings animals, it's not something we should even
have to debate.
No matter how debased the behavior of a given individual or group, no matter how much legitimate
anger that genuinely evil actions might inspire, dehumanizing others always leads us down a
dangerous path.
Wouldn't not calling them out for what they are, lead us down an even more dangerous
path.
And referring to a White House memo titled, What you need to know about the violent animals
of MS-13, the Southern Poverty Law Center tweeted, It is unacceptable for such racist
dehumanizing language to now be repeated 10 times on the White House website in a document
that speaks for America.
This is an argument they will clearly never win.
But with more talk like this, it's a midterm election season, they will surely lose.
I followed in the footsteps of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, someone whose words have been on
my mind recently.
Remember what he said, everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts.
Well as Democrats, you know, we believe in facts.
And real ones, not the alternative kind.
John Bown reporting for Infowars.com.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine Flora Life Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and Carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Ow!
They think you're a goldfish.
I've been betting on you my whole life.
I believe in you.
I don't think you're stupid.
One man and a wreck's a woman, all genitals are cut off.
And we're kicking these trainers' asses politically and we're not backing down at her.
Ow!
I'm gonna kick these people.
We're winning.
I can feel the spirit rising.
Can't you?
We have broken their back.
Yes, I can feel it.
Ow!
Ow!
Let's go!
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on!
Vengeance is coming!
Fire is coming!
The real revolution against you is coming and you will burn in hell!
We are transferring power from Washington, D.C. and giving it back to you, the people.
Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo.
This is the heart of 1776.
Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House.
Huge nationwide protests erupted once again on President Donald Trump's second weekend in office.
You are dying to my blood!
You are dying to my blood!
When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.
When America is united, America is totally unstoppable.
Donald J. Trump is now president of the United States.
And most importantly, we will be protected by God.
From the bloodlines of the Info World, it's Alex Jones.
No, you need to stop!
You better stop!
Ladies and gentlemen, we are broadcasting worldwide on this Thursday, the 24th day already, of May 2018.
There is obviously an incredible spectrum of unbelievable news and information.
The big story obviously is the ongoing negotiations with North Korea are proceeding as expected.
The Hawks tried to sabotage the deal via Bolton.
North Korea also started trying to apply pressure to try to wiggle out of private agreements they made months ago.
And so Trump canceled the June 12th meeting.
And of course, I would just expect this to happen in regular negotiation rounds.
North Korea knows it's collapsing under the sanctions.
So they will end up coming back to the table.
They just don't want to do complete total denuclearization up front before they are given more guarantees
and some type of treaty agreement, which you have to agree with.
And I don't like Kim Jong-un, as everybody knows.
The whole point is I want to get that communist system off those people's backs.
And this is the best way moving forward after 60-plus years of this garbage since the United Nations
would not let us liberate the North Koreans, then just Koreans from the clutches of the Chikoms,
who were being advised behind the scenes by the fledgling Central Intelligence Agency
and the globalist traders at the top of that organization.
So we'll be breaking that down today.
Obviously, there's a lot of news dealing with Trump releasing the hounds and the fact that
Rosenstein is being drugged before the head of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees privately.
They're talking about appointing a new special counsel, and it certainly doesn't need to be the one-man government,
Rosenstein, and it doesn't need to be.
Sessions needs to be brought forward, I would think, by the House and needs to be recommended,
because this is a serious constitutional crisis we're already in.
The president has the power and is supposed to remove these individuals,
but because he's decided the current calculus, because the media hyped it that way,
that if he removes them, that he somehow is a criminal, when they are the criminals,
Rosenstein undoubtedly is engaged in serious criminal activity and a criminal conspiracy
to fraud voters of this country and establish an absolute dictatorship of a cabal of criminals
who are being a Praetorian guard coup within the Justice Department and FBI apparatus,
or put in Central Intelligence Agency parlance, stay behind network, rogue government element,
operating with the most wanton, insane degree of criminal arrogance I've ever seen in any history book.
I mean, it's ridiculous.
No one would put up with this.
With humor and all these other crooks with their tongues hanging out like wild dogs bragging
when he was president-elect, we're going to get you, we're going to throw you out.
We've got people in the agencies that aren't going to do what you say, we're going to get rid of you.
We're spying on you as a confidence game for all their other crooks.
And now the gas is running out of the tank.
They're way down on E and the engine's starting to sputter and we're in that glide now,
where the deep stage running out of, running out of gas, the engine's popping and spurting and backfiring
and they're trying to guide it over to the side of the road, but they're not approaching a shoulder.
They notice they're approaching a cliff and they've lost control of their power steering
and they have that long sinking feeling they're going to be sliding off the edge down, down, down
into the dustbin of history.
I hope they enjoy themselves because they've been pushing so hard
it means all the normal constraints because we're a civilized country are going to be bypassed
because they won't stop and they won't go away.
And the decision has been made the last two days to remove the rotten teeth.
It's not even going to really take pliers.
It's going to take the will to reach up with your thumb and your index finger
and just grab right up at the top of that rotting gum and just wiggle a little bit,
pop it right out, let that pus drain out of there.
But it's going to be bad for some of us that have been at the tip of the spear.
Make no mistake.
That's what it's all about, isn't it?
What freedom is all about.
This civilization has been so soft for so long we've been living off the blood, sweat and tears of ancestors
for far too long and we're going to have to be tested.
And we're going to be tested by the AI computers.
We're going to be tested by the death panels that the robots run.
We're going to be tested by all the nanotech and bio weapons and all the things that have already gotten loose.
And then the final summation, humanity, I believe is going to make it.
But folks are going to have to get serious and get their head screwed on straight to understand,
we're up against devil worshipers.
That's it.
Period.
I'm going to come back with just masses of news.
On the other side, Weinstein, grand jury, convene in Harvey Weinstein case in Manhattan,
federal prosecutor starts sex crimes investigation to Harvey Weinstein
and his raping of women, that's just the tip of the iceberg.
Mr. Weinstein is a very sick individual.
He likes to humiliate beautiful women.
That's what turns him on.
So he's the worst type.
So we're going to be looking at that coming up.
A lot more.
The MS-13 press conference roundtable, Trump had it, the media has tried to censor.
People coming up today, please don't forget that I lose the forest with the trees here quite a bit
and really don't plug like I should, but that without you funding this operation,
you won't get great products you need.
Most importantly, you will not be funding the most energized, focused, vicious spotlight
burning in the night.
Like a flamethrower that the devils run up to in the night and want to extinguish, but they can't.
They are definitely throwing as much crap from the woods that as they can
and we just need that money to fuel our operations to put bigger, better windshield wipers
up there on our big spotlight as we flame throw them to hell.
In FullWarStore.com, stay with us.
All thanks to the FHA.
Or what about this?
Did you know 54 U.S. congressmen have used a special tax free account
to earn up to 35 times more on their money?
It's true and you can do it too.
These are just two of the secrets revealed inside a stunning new book
from the Palm Beach Research Group and Ted Benna, the man behind the 401k.
You'll discover the 18 best cash cows that can help you earn up to an extra $6,800 a month.
If you're at or near retirement, this book is a must read.
Today you can get your very own free copy of Ted Benna's new book,
Chipping and Handling Charges Apply.
Get your copy of Ted Benna's book when you text Benna to 7900.
Text B-E-N-N-A to 7900.
Text Benna to 7900 now.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them the library, to give them the church.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com.
KillingUncleSanBook.com.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the out-left sanctuary state until one day I chose to lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden, and homeschool our children
without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our BlackRifle Real Estate team is here to help.
Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Perfect for freeze-drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
Woo! That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select Storable Food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select Storable Food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select Storable Foods.
It's Alex Jones.
Thank you so much for joining us on this Thursday global broadcast.
I do intend to open the phones up today and take your calls on all the big world issues that are taking place.
Do you agree with me that I think we're really starting to turn the tide, at least in the revolution, to restore our Republic
and the decision by nation states and individuals around the world to go away from the authoritarian nightmare system that is globalism?
And it's technocracy goal.
We've gotten free bloom, always informative to break down his view on what's happening in the U.K., Europe, and more.
And also, what's happening here in the U.S., really smart military historian and patriot who we intend to work with more over in the U.K.
And of course, you've got Farage in the background there. Let's leave it at that.
Wheels within wheels. And then we've got Anton Kumi, a host of The Fourth Hour, always interesting and informative.
That is a smooth, smart guy right there.
So that's coming up.
You know, every day when the show ends, I get really mad at myself because I don't at least mention the stuff here.
Despite all this new incredible breaking news,
I want to just bring up that we've got embassy personnel in Cuba and China clearly getting hit with microwave guns.
I mean, you can buy Sonic weapons on the open market.
And that just shows how ignorant the public is that we bought it somewhere around here about 18 years ago.
I bought a supersonic nauseator out of a police catalog.
And I said, I don't want it to be placebo at the old office.
I said, just one day, turn it on in the studio, put it under my desk.
And I got nauseous in about 30 minutes.
Most people get nauseous in about 5'10", took a bit longer.
That's just the Sonic low frequency system.
Stuff brain damaging people's microwave weapons.
You don't just think the Russians or the Chinese have those, right?
But the point is, is they attacked me the day before for putting out a CIA manual just covering on the air that's public.
And the manual is how they use shell towers.
And this is in 1974, the year I was born, how they were already testing shell towers to control people's emotions.
And it said it can make you get sick, make you, you know, convulse, make you die, or just make your skin itch, make your legs kick.
So the left, the left made big jokes about that, but there's the State Department saying, we take the use of these weapons against us very seriously.
That's the CNN headline.
But then meanwhile, there's an article from the day before making fun of us for pointing it out.
They just don't want us pointing out that the sky is blue or that birds fly around in it.
So the State Department has issued a warning.
They may have to basically close their embassy in China because of this.
And of course, it was declassified in the 80s that in the 60s and 70s, the Russians were hitting US embassy staff with the stuff.
And they made the decision to not even tell the people at the embassy to see if it worked.
And that was all my stack yesterday. It was from.gov. It was the Big National Institute on biological developments in the human system out of DARPA.
And that's what's so frustrating about this is there's a world government.
It's totally corrupt. It's coming for you and your family.
We know the 5G gives you brain cancer really fast and heart attacks.
Do you understand? This isn't my opinion.
They know all this. So I'm trying to explain. We are being hit.
They are making it ubiquitous with weapons systems everywhere that are frying the population.
You just go to a search engine and type in Sonic Weapons US embassies.
Now, they don't want to tell you that it's not Sonic attacks. It's microwave attacks.
And what is a cell tower? What is a cell phone? It is a microwave.
So notice, no one's been covering this. I have been hammering this for years, particularly this last month.
I was like, I haven't hammered on that in a few months. I'm going to really bring it back.
I've been hammering, hammering, hammering, hammering. This is a public service announcement.
Hey, we've got elites who admit in the Baltimore Sun 18 years ago, I'll never forget, they said,
oh, we're testing the local Baltimore cell towers. DARPA is to see if we can calm the public during the summer months.
And so, yes, the CIA is in Baltimore, and that was a test article to see what would happen.
No one covered it but us, other than the Baltimore Sun, saying, this summer, during the hot months,
to see if we can help people, we're going to just send out calming waves over the cell towers.
And then they have little articles on Fox News, oh, Japan looks at putting lithium in their water,
and we're looking at it too. They don't look at doing it.
Many water supplies have lithium added to it. You know, I talked to one of the high-level technicians, engineers,
who set up in Singapore. He's a big Republican party guy here in Texas.
And he told me, this is about 19 years ago, how they have different ports in the subterranean water system of Singapore,
because the scientists, doctors, ended up creating Singapore as a big MI6 think tank,
and that they put the different drugs in Singapore just to test it on the public.
Think about that. I mean, that's what's going on.
They've tested the water all over the US, and it's got levels of drugs in it that's impossible from runoff.
And they test it, and it's not even, again, Luvox or Prozac or some different molecular manipulation of a fluoride molecule.
It is a generic, super strong Prozac that is put in the water.
The tap water you're given has Prozac put in it.
It's shipped in from China, or it's shipped in from Florida in the bags, and it just says, oh, hydrophoresic acid.
But under federal law, they can have hundreds of other grignard reagents, toxins, you name it, and in it is the Prozac.
You're not in Kansas anymore, folks, and that's all I'm telling you.
100% we're being microwaved to death, and the cancer rates are going straight up.
Straight up. Straight up.
Now, there's your London Guardian State. Call on everyone. There's Prozac in the water,
and there's so much of it running off out of the Mississippi that drains half the water in the country or more.
That the fish are suicidal. The shrimp are suicidal. That's mainstream headlines.
And you'll have these suicidal little fishes from right up the pelicans.
And, you know, the Bible says that an off-world entity fell onto the planet and enjoys killing us.
You know, I start to think that Bible might be accurate.
Stocks and options trading involves financial risk and is not suitable for all investors.
Fire your stockbroker and hire yourself. I'm Scott Bauer, and I've been a professional trader for over 25 years.
I've traded for Goldman Sachs and was the first Amazon market maker at the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
I'm also the CEO here at Prosper Trading Academy, the leading educational firm teaching people how to trade the markets.
At a limited time, I'm giving away one of my favorite secret trading techniques used by thousands of our students every day to help build their financial future.
To learn this technique right now, call my 24-7 voicemail and just leave your email address.
I'll email you my free trading technique right away. Just call 1-800-228-2155.
This is the very information my students use every day to invest in their financial future.
Again, call 1-800-228-2155 in the next 30 minutes and leave your email address on my voicemail.
That's 1-800-228-2155. Call 1-800-228-2155.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in Fuller's life. It'd take hours.
Michael's DX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Today it all changes. This reality has been forced upon us. It is a choice, just like when I said slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing, expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying, I hate you, I hate you, you f*** you, you f*** you. How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love? Why don't we just try love? We have the resources for a peaceful world.
Sometimes you need some crazy motherf***ers to change something. Steve Jobs is crazy. Now we all know Steve Jobs phones.
They say Trump's crazy. They say I'm crazy. But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
It's a bigger plan. We're going to follow the devil's plan. Whether you think the devil's real or not, the spirit running this world system is super evil.
It doesn't even want power. It wants to hurt you, twist you, poison you, bring you down and then kill you.
You like that plan or you like the bigger plan? It's real big. This is only level one.
Now all the scientists know that, the quantum mechanics, the heads of the big banks come out and say this is a virtual reality.
All the spectrometers, all the special devices have picked it up that the black matter, the dark matter, is molecularly even more dense than our universe.
And that everything is being held together and that there is outside stimuli and they've even proven scientifically, if you look at a star through a telescope,
that it then has an energy relay between you and the star. Everything is interdimensional.
Because a physicist, French physicist, I forget his name, saw PBS documentary on it back when there was actually interesting things on there.
And they predicted that when one of the first probes flew over the gas giant Saturn that there would be a pentagon or a hexagon
interdimensionally projected into the pole and that the ice storm, ice gas storm would manifest it.
And when the probe went over, there it was. No one had ever seen the top of it.
Think about that. That is how powerful our brains are. We envisioned all of this and built it.
The Bible says we're made in the image of God, made in the image. The image, what does that mean?
A 3D image, the data in the image that has to be unlocked. You are the image, the potential, the seed.
And there's a force that wants to hijack your consciousness and destroy you.
Because in the universe, if there's free will, then there has to be that bad thing. That's the nature of it.
And everything world government and the globalists are doing is to dumb us down, poison us, turn us against each other and kill us.
You like that plan? I don't like that plan. I'm against that plan. I'm for the bigger plan.
Can we play that Kanye West little promo piece one more time? Let's play the little promo piece one more time so people can hear what he's saying.
Super strong words being spoken. Pure truth. Here it is.
We are drugged out. We are following other people's opinions. We are controlled by the media. Today it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us. It is a choice, just like what I said, slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying, I hate you, I hate you, you fucking fuck you. How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love? Why don't we just try love? We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy motherfuckers to change something. These jobs are crazy. Now we are on these jobs phone.
They say drugs crazy. They say I'm crazy. But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
It's a bigger plan. I'm just doing what the universe told me, not the earth. In the earth, not of it.
I'm just doing what the universe told me, not Hollywood and Times Square, all their false reality trying to keep you in it,
trying to put blinders on you, trying to make you put VR goggles on so that you don't look up and then you're gone already.
Your body's still here, but you're already outside their grasp. Doesn't mean they can't still hurt your body.
They mean they can't still torture your soul because you love your family. But once you understand it's all real and timeless and we do not die
and that your energy is going to resonate with Hillary and Weinstein and the devil worshipers, you're going to choose to be separated
and you'll into that or into the universe, into the next level.
That's right outside the projected universe you see. Just waiting.
The doors are waiting, they're right there. Spiritual teleportation.
Sick, evil, twisted destruction only wants to pull you down.
And you cannot serve this world. You cannot be in love with this world. You cannot be in love with power or things and ever transcend.
And it doesn't mean you don't like a car that runs well or enjoy nice food or whatever, but it's not your God.
And if somebody tells you to enslave somebody or dump somebody down just so you get something, you're going to resonate with the satanic energy and you're going to fall.
It's that simple. And it's very alluring, makes you feel strong, makes you think you're in charge while you're here.
This is all that matters right now, this planet.
This planet is phase one and everybody in every culture and every system knows that because it is.
You're like, oh, really? A space port and like we're in the universe and all. Yeah, we are. Look around you. Couldn't be more fantastic.
It's real, ladies and gentlemen. It's so real that the totally advanced, complete omnipresent entity that created it built what you can see just like that to experience consciousness and free will through us.
An extension, not the Godhead, but an extension of God's consciousness, God's dream, God's breath, feeling it, entering, becoming it, the presence of it.
And then you just say, how on earth are we run by these fallen demonic globalists? People think, oh, they're powerful.
Only because they're willing to violate all the galactic rules to set themselves up in a hierarchical system to dominate and control us.
While they claim they're against hierarchy and they claim they're all about collective, they're the opposite.
We'll be back with the key transmission. Stay with us. This is the broadcast that Satan's Emissary Sorrows feels.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWars Life has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line.
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle. Available in 1oz, 3.5oz and 16oz bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
InfoWarsLife Select Storeable Food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWarsLife Select Storeable Foods.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.
Coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
We're going to open the phones up the next hour. Godford Bloom is coming up.
I got a bunch of CIA documents I want to get into from 1967 when they invented the word conspiracy theory. This is mainstream news. People just forget this.
You've got to get an inside scoop on how all this works because you know most of the people doing this stuff don't even like what they're doing.
That's why they've got to create some culture of men hating women and women hating men and racial hatred because that's the only culture.
The global thing they can create is one of hate and everybody fighting with each other to then compartmentalize groups in different systems so that people will do mean things to each other.
That's basically what's going on. Now, when I sit here and I say there's censorship going on, we all know it, it's now admitted.
But then the media will sit there and go, oh, a judge ruled that Trump can't censor his Twitter feed.
Well, that just shows that the judge doesn't understand how it works or is a globalist, probably both.
Because being ignorant goes with serving the architect of this pathetic hijacking, the little plan, not the plan. The plan? Okay.
Anyways, Twitter can place its bots and its fake avatars at the top and force feed down your throat whatever they want and they already put at the top of Trump's feed, the haters,
and then bury all the good stuff where he's going through news and seeing what you have to say at the bottom.
And they've been blocking the push notifications. We are the only people that have done videos on this.
We need to have someone brief the president on this. I've tried to tell him a few times I've gotten to talk and say something to him.
He doesn't understand it. He's got people around him that don't understand it or lying to him about it because these worldly people are all very lazy folks.
They do the minimum. They don't really want knowledge. They just act like they have knowledge and then they've got technocrats behind the scenes that are all very specialized, but they're 200 IQs.
And they build these systems, but oh, Trump censoring Twitter when he has people pegged to the top, saying lies, spewing garbage, trying to make it look like he's not popular,
and the judge goes, it's an electronic town hall, so you've got to let people on it.
Well, folks are going, oh, that's a victory for conservatives. They're admitting it's a town hall. They're admitting it's a utility. And so you can't stop people.
They're going to selectively enforce it. It's how they do it. And that's the whole game.
But if we can just let the president understand how that works and how they're in his Twitter.
Remember Jack Dorsey said, I might just ban him for the mean things, he says.
Meanwhile, they got people on Twitter saying kill him with millions of followers and they're allowed to say it.
So that ties into this constellation of news. How can we hope to keep our republic when one of the parties is totally committed to tyranny and evil?
It's a good article from town hall, but it ties into this. And I could spend five hours on this one subject alone.
Jesus banned from Illinois High School, Valle Victorian warned not to use the word or he would lose his diploma.
He's considering a lawsuit to Nadon Salazar in FullWars.com article.
And I can't believe that this even has to be debated. We'll play a clip in a moment from CBS News Local.
They sit there going, is it right? Should it be banned? Separation of church and state.
Separation of church and state means you can't have the state government or the federal government have an official religion.
It doesn't mean that he can't get up if that's part of the process and say whatever he wants under the First Amendment.
Because Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the fair exercise thereof.
That is the first part of the First Amendment. Then the press, then assembly, then petitioning, then redress of grievances, then the marching.
But the left interprets all of what it is for us now and they're the biggest enemy.
The left set itself up in the last 50 years as the guardian of free speech, but only so they could define what free speech was.
Now they are the executioner of free speech. The friend that's always been so close to it.
And all over the country, you see the articles every few days around Christmas.
Oh, Texas school suspends a student for giving out Christmas cards because they said Christmas.
You could hand out baseball cards, you could hand out Satanism cards, you could hand out Harry Potter cards, but you do not hand out Christmas cards.
You see, and they dilute it and they attack it and they have debates.
Oh, does it violate his rights? Does it?
When anyone who knows what this country set up on.
See, the right wing always attacks Thomas Jefferson and goes, he wanted to ban religion or ban it in schools.
No, he didn't. He didn't want a religious cult over the country. We'd seen that enough.
And so he said, you will not have a government controlled prescribed denomination where the government says this is your church and the only church allowed.
They'd had five civil wars. Two big ones in England over that they'd had probably a hundred civil wars in Europe.
I mean, we're talking four or five, six, seven per country, millions dead for 500 years.
Before Thomas Jefferson said separation of church and state in a letter interpreting the Constitution of the First Amendment and these people misrepresent because they think you're stupid.
Think about that in America. China says you can't say Jesus. This is what's happening in America.
And Elon Musk comes out and says that, you know, people don't trust the media.
That's why Trump got elected. He says they're all arrogant. They're out of control. They're a fraud. They lay claim to the truth, but publish only enough to sugarcoat the lie.
Yeah, he gets it.
There's a revolution against these liars happening. Oh, look, conservative comedians announced comedy tour gets censored by Facebook.
That was on the war room last night.
Twitter censors push notifications for President Trump. We are the only site they ever covered that.
That should be everywhere.
There should be an intelligence briefing that I'll write it to the president about how he's being censored, how he's being controlled.
And then we've got to get that to him.
Maybe through Chris Ruddy or somebody.
But they are so scared if he gets the information.
This is the instincts and everything are already so good if we could just brief the president.
That's why they fear it so much.
My info wars is banned in the White House.
All right, I'm going to stop right there. I need to be funded. This operation needs to be funded.
I have not even done what I should be doing here on air plugging.
You know, we're doing world changing things here.
And I decided because we did this last year, I was looking back at the calendar a few weeks ago.
And I noticed that last Memorial Day, we did some of the biggest specials of the year.
So we're doing it right now.
A huge raft of specials, great products, chance for you to try them out.
Memorial Day Patriots Special.
The vaunted brain force with thousands of five star reviews and the 4.8 rating unprecedented is 50% off 1995.
There are formulas that aren't even as good that retail for $60.
You cannot get it from my research a better.
Neutropic or a price anywhere near this.
infowarslife.com
X2 and BioTrue Selenium 50% off combo.
I was misreading especially yesterday.
It was 50% off on Selenium when you got X2.
So that was a mistake.
So we've actually changed to what I said.
X2 is now 50% off when you get it with a bottle of Selenium.
That's also 50% off.
So both are 50% off in that combo now.
Then free shipping.
Oh, I forgot about that.
Free shipping store-wide.
I always forget the most important things.
That's been brought in for a limited time.
Brain force plus 50% off the real red pill plus now with added energy boost 50% off with free shipping.
Amazing.
Silver bullet 50% off high quality Coil Silver Alpha Power.
That is an amazing energized energy.
Stamina libido alpha power 50% off with free shipping.
Super male and super female vitality 50% off with free shipping.
That is massive.
DNA force 50% off with free shipping.
Fluorolive products great probiotic 50% off with free shipping.
Info wars life super high quality storeable food.
Private labeled my Patriot supply to go below what they're going to sell to anybody else.
One year and six month three month food supplies 50% off.
No one can top it.
That is the best deal from my research on the Internet.
Immune wall 50% off with free shipping.
Pollen block 50% off with free shipping.
Get great products.
Horrify sorrows.
Stand in the gap against the forces of eugenics and mass murder planetary death.
That's it.
This is planetary death we're fighting.
Find out our operation and we will rampage forward.
Info wars life created the powerful micro ZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment.
Our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Micro ZX plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body function.
Micro ZX plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body.
Supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarko bark and grape seed extract.
Our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro ZX plus today.
At infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2,
SuperMail Vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and resecured.
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Enough is enough.
We're back live broadcasting worldwide. I'm Alex Jones, your host.
I'm going to reveal the true profile and the blueprint for mass shootings in this country.
The police, the FBI, they've known this since Columbine.
We know it. The corporate media struggles night and day to keep it from you.
You can talk about the shootings happening in blue state areas every time.
You can talk about how they're always on psychotropic drugs and they're going to shoot them up video games.
You can always talk about how there's police stand downs.
I wanted to think Texas would be different but they're saying 30 minutes till they took the guy out.
Now he did shoot the school resource officer first. He was waiting on him.
I just found that hard to believe.
But ladies and gentlemen, we know the profile in every case the school mass shooters are in cells.
Involuntarily celibate.
That's what happened with both of the shooters at Columbine.
It's the cut out of every single one of these individuals and every single school shooting.
Elliott Roger is where we get the name in cell.
But the truck attack up in Toronto, an in cell, said he was an in cell, like Elliott Roger.
They are pseudo-autistic males, generally white, in fact almost always.
They have high IQs.
They're in love with themselves, in love with the potential of what they could be.
The potential in all of us is great.
So they're in love with the idea of their potential but aren't willing to actually execute it.
And so you have a propulsion system by the time you're 10, 11, 12 years old to want to leave the nest.
And to feel like you're not having worth and that you would have worth.
But usually you want your parents to do it for you and you want to run somebody else's life.
It's an immaturity thing.
That's what liberals are.
They all want to run your life but they can't run theirs.
So it's an extension of liberal mental illness.
And then you add shoot them up video games and you add weapons.
And you add serotonin reuptake inhibitors because mommy sends you to the psychiatrist, the psychologist because you got problems.
And you're acting out.
And then you identify with the ball starting rolling with Columbine in 1999 and all the attention and everything.
And it's a romanticism about you and selfishness.
It's a true act of Satanism to ruin other people's lives, to ruin their family's lives, to hurt them.
And they do it because a girl they have a crush on rejects them.
And it really comes down to when they smart it off and they didn't work hard and mommy did whatever and daddy wasn't at home that nobody knocked them upside the head.
Because they never went through any type of real tribulation.
So they build this tribulation for themselves, this battle of the gods, this rock and rock final destiny to basically commit suicide to their life.
And we know who they are.
We know how to stop them.
We know how to get them.
They're always wearing swastikas.
They're always wearing iron communism regalia devil worship black.
They're all clothing.
They are Satanist.
They are spoiled, cowardly, stupid, ruined, little, many devils.
It's like Satan wants to blow the planet up.
He is an incel.
Satan is an incel.
This is absolutely critical.
Satan is an incel.
Satan is a failure.
And Satan wants to take us all with it.
That is the key.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their Satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
50,000 unstoppable watts!
Unstoppable watts!
Anthrax!
Anthrax!
And radio!
And radio!
And look up!
Anthrax!
And radio!
And look up!
Better look out!
What if I told you they've been lying?
I found that double-wild with water rights.
And now the town calls a pack again.
They sold you some old land.
I found the greater good in sacrifice.
I gotta load some more clutch on my... on my playlist.
Anthrax and radio!
You better look out!
50,000 unstoppable watts!
We're back live.
If you just joined us, I was getting into the group that has committed 100% of the mass school shootings since 1999 when the phenomenon began.
Now, don't you think that ought to be some information that people should know?
But I guarantee you, when we post this video of this live show, this segment, to Facebook and to Twitter and to YouTube, they're gonna block it particularly.
And so I want the people that do that censorship to understand.
When you block this information, you become an accomplice to the next school shooting when another one of these incels shoves that gun right to that girl's head while they beg for their lives.
And they commit that satanic sacrifice.
Because that's what they do.
They like a begging.
And they feed on it.
And they splatter their brains and their guts and their blood all over the walls.
And then they're too cowardly to even shove the gun in their own mouth most of the time.
Because they want to watch themselves on the news and read about it and try to creep people out of the jail.
And pretty boy around.
So, the profile is a metrosexual, narcissist, devil worshiper.
That's why they have Nazi communists, satanic pentagrams.
They always trench coat it and all this stuff to try to look powerful, look evil.
And they fantasize about it.
And they play the shoot-em-up video games.
And they do it all.
And then they get rejected.
And then they think about killing people and go, no, I'll go play football.
I'll try as hard as I can to be cool.
But they can't handle the rejection.
And so they want to go out in the big blaze of glory.
Every mass shooting, because they add in to the 46, 56, the number, it's, I kept saying 56, it's 46.
On average since 1999, there are 46 people killed in mass shootings.
Now about half of those are really the big mass shooting where a bunch of people get killed.
The others are gang related where it's not good, it's terrible.
But somebody didn't pay somebody or somebody beat somebody up.
Somebody's scared of them because they're beggar.
So they shoot them.
And it's usually one or two people get shot.
It's gang related.
And you got white gangs doing it, black gangs doing it, Hispanic gangs doing it.
That's a totally different thing.
And that happened in schools before.
1999.
But up to 1999, none of that mass shooting trench coat mafia thing ever happened.
I mean, you take the students at Columbine, turned out both of them were part Jewish,
but they were into Hitler and they wore swastikas inside their black trench coats.
Why would you do that?
Well, because there's a fetishizing evil.
If Hitler killed Jews, well, you're Jewish.
It's about killing yourself.
You see, it's about death.
It's about suicide.
It's about being rebellious.
It's about being bad.
Now there it is.
Columbine shooter had Jewish roots dreaded Passover.
And then we looked into the other guy here.
He has it too.
The point is, is that it's not the Jewish issue.
It's the issue that they were into Nazism, just like this guy down on the Texas coast.
And he gave it a run.
He tried to be popular, tried to be cool.
And he got rejected.
Dude, go pick up a waitress who's getting divorced from her husband down at the diner.
You don't pick chicks up at the high school, bro, but you're not a player.
You don't know that.
See, all the real men in school, sonny, they got girlfriends in college.
See, I need to give men lessons on things.
I mean, I really do.
Because you become a man because 50 women reject you.
You ever wonder why cool black guys have so many great girlfriends that are doing so well out there?
Because they'll go by on average.
I grew up in Dallas, man.
I had a lot of black friends.
I guess I picked up from them.
Hey, you want to go out?
Want to have some fun?
Want to go do some stuff?
She doesn't want me.
She doesn't want me.
She doesn't want me.
Boom.
Bingo.
She wants me.
Get in the car, sweetheart.
And that's what it is.
These guys are arrested.
They want women and they don't even know how to get them.
Those aren't women you're going after at the high school.
Most of them.
They don't want to hang out with a creepy weirdo guy.
So you're going to kill a bunch of people because they didn't want to be with you.
Exactly.
Why don't you learn how to tell a joke?
Why don't you learn how to have some fun?
Why don't you really be the bad boy in the school?
And that just means standing up to bullies and stuff.
Instead, you're going to go kill a bunch of people.
They're devil worshipers.
And in the last segment of this hour, I'm going to play Paul's excellent breakdown on this.
They all identify with Satanism.
They always identify with the occult.
But you have to understand, it's a spirit in so, in voluntary settlement.
And that doesn't mean that guys that have had problems with women have been hurt by women.
Women can be mean.
And that, and that, and that, you know, who, who, who, who lead bachelor lifestyles that they're bad people.
This is a particular group of folks programmed by society.
And the final ingredient is the media giving the end cells attention.
And turning them into a God like Charlie Manson.
And, and letting you hear their philosophy and putting them up on a perch.
Hollywood did that on purpose with Charlie Manson.
And that whole MK Ultra experiment, did you know it's admitted that Manson was working for the CIA?
And distributing LSD.
Every major city had a couple of these guys to be the gurus on the universities and to deliver the drugs and all the rest of it.
And then he kind of went off the reservation sideways.
And, you know, Sharon Tate knew a little too much.
Sharon Tate didn't like some of the stuff she was learning about some of the things that were going on when she was in France shooting those movies about devil worship.
And well, Sharon Tate got that baby cut out of her.
So Satanism is not a fun thing to play around with boys and girls.
So I would stay away from that if I was you.
So our problem is Satanism and Hollywood is Satanism.
It steals your time.
It becomes your idols.
Netflix keeps people from having sex with their wives and husbands.
Netflix, they have studies out is what's lowering the growth of the U.S.
Indigenous population.
Does that sound like something we want to be part of?
No.
Everything they deploy against us is death.
Everything that gives us life, they're trying to block it.
Just like they're trying to block Info Wars.
Because Info Wars is a fan of life.
Trump is a fan of life.
Trump is a fan of progress and success and beauty and women.
And the system has inverted it all by controlling the church to say loving women is a sin.
But all the real, truly satanic activities are not even looked at.
Oh, Morgan Friedman hit on women.
That's his sexual harassment.
And that's now being equated, hitting on women or asking women out.
That is now equated to as bad as Weinstein reportedly raping hundreds of women.
See how they do that sleight of hand?
Think about that.
You know, there's so much big news to break down.
But I'm going to come back to the number dot, take some calls,
and hit some of the other big news we haven't hit.
But in America, in major schools, the name Jesus is banned from you speaking it.
Think about that.
They're not going to stop the Satanists from having their little club meetings.
Oh, no, they have their speech.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
Get the Ultimate Knife at an ultimate price.
The Fox Karambit Knife.
Finally available in the U.S.
The Fox Karambit Knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility,
for defense, and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to TheUltimateKnife.com.
Truly the best knife you will ever own and only available at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the Ultimate Knife at the ultimate price at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship,
brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalists.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com,
forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
so that your sensors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight.
We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle,
two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it,
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae
and I came up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation.
I've got a good woman at home who thinks I do no wrong,
but sometimes she just ain't always around, and you know that's when I fall,
and I can't help myself at all, and I get whiskey bent and held bound.
Ladies and songs about a lamb and man.
Start to turn off Hank Williams Jr.
Remember back when Money Night Football had 40% more ratings than it's got now?
And everybody liked him introing it, but see that's all gone now, and so are the ratings.
It's fun watching Hollywood and all its appendages burn up in flames, isn't it?
Makes me as happy as a possum that sneaks into your kitchen at night and eats all the pumpkin pie.
When Tom is at the deer camp, he's got a little cook shack.
I got up at 4am because it was my day to go cook biscuits and gravy and eggs.
I walk in there, there's Jack Daniels sitting there on the counter from the night before.
I better have a little bit of that to wake up and get the coffee going and start,
here's something I look over, and there in the corner is the half-eaten pumpkin pie with a possum still eating it.
He was just hoping, I didn't notice him, he was just in the, in the, looking out by the,
I said, I'm just gonna let you keep eating that.
Everybody starts waking up, coming in there, and we all finished breakfast while the possum was sitting there eating over in the corner, up on the counter.
We left, went out and deer hunted that day, shot a couple deer, came back about 1pm, and he was gone,
and the pumpkin pie was all lit clean.
There was little paw prints too.
That's the true story.
Ugly creatures, kind of cute though.
My parents had this big oak tree by their house, it fell down in a big storm, but there was generations of possums raised in it,
and the little possums would come out and my dad would feed them, and he could pick them up, baby possums.
Pretty cute.
I was like, you know, I used to shoot possums just for fun, and now I feel bad about that.
After my dad had the little baby possums, it took a couple generations too.
Then some owls moved in, and the craziest thing my mom ever saw was a baby owl fell out of the tree,
it was a horned owl, and the horned owl flew down like a helicopter, grabbed the baby, and took it back up,
and she told me about that, and I, I search-engined it, and I never, I can't find a spot where you see an owl picking up its baby,
but my mom saw it. Kind of like that video, I forgot to give it to you guys.
Of the bald eagle, there's a fox, and it's killed a rabbit, and the bald eagle tries to steal it,
the fox turns around, bites the bald eagle's claw, hangs on to it, goes up 20 feet in the air,
and the bald eagle finally drops it along with the rabbit.
That is the image of tenacity right there.
I just saw that video yesterday, I'm going to send that to you guys, I forgot. I tweeted a still shot of the HD video at Real Alex Jones.
You know, let's just see, I started listening to Hank Williams Jr. or George Strait.
I need to just take a vacation and load up the truck with my son and go hunting.
The only thing in season right now is wild hogs, but they need, they need killing, there's too many of them.
That's it, I've been invited out to this local doctor's place, and out in Marble Falls,
and I'm going to make that phone call, because I've canceled three times, I'm going to go hunting.
You know, part of life is having a little bit of fun.
Yeah, here's the footage, Zachary, J.E. Photography, amazing.
Boom, and I guess the, what's the headline of the video?
It's like a plug-up, people go find it themselves, they're a radio listener.
That's real footage, ladies and gentlemen.
That's an amazing photographer, I got to tell you. Boom!
It's not fun, and that is real footage, that's real world.
When I tweeted it, I said, truth is stranger than fiction.
It's a red fox, it looks like a juvenile fox too.
Juvenile red fox, I know there's some smaller species of red fox.
Look at that, raw video, bald eagle snatches a fox holding a rabbit.
Fox news, amazing.
Let's just have a fun time today. You know what I mean? That doesn't matter that they, you know,
the globalist are pedophiles, kidnapped little kids, portraying them to death.
I really should not be such a negative person, I should really leave the globalist alone, shouldn't I?
It'd be a lot easier if I did that.
You know, I said I'd take some calls and I've kind of burned time and haven't done it,
and I also said I'm going to air Paul's Powerful Report on we've identified 100% of the people
taking people's lives and mass shootings.
And they are what they call incels, spoiled rotten brats who are always into the occult,
always into Nazism, always into communism, whatever's bad, whatever's wicked, who throw big fits.
And you'd think that that's big news. Let me tell you something.
You got one of these guys in your school who threatens to be a school shooter so he gets attention and scare people.
That's geeking out. People think like a geek's a nerd on the A.
The real term for a geek at a carnival show is somebody that bites the heads off chickens and bats and rats and things.
So these people want to get attention and want to kind of shock everybody and they kind of fill that role
and then people kind of join in and bully on it.
Now if you got one of these people, you need to get your children out of that school.
And they need to be run out. Or some young lady needs to somehow find the humanity in this person
and try to reprieve them, but I wouldn't put myself in that danger.
I mean, yeah, what they need is to have a fist fight with their dad in the backyard, but ooh, you can't do that nowadays.
You can't have any rites of passage for these punks who are always there pushing their mom around.
It's almost never daddy at home. That's another part of it.
These young punks need to have their asses handed to them.
And that means, you know, getting his nose broken, it needs to happen.
That means it needs to be kicked up side the head. That's how this works.
And if you don't do that with punks like this, getting people's faces because they're always beating up their mom or they got some dad they push around,
they need their asses handed to them.
I mean, I'm sorry, that's what they need. They need to get hurt bad.
Then they'll turn into men, but they're always these candy ass metrosexuals that are in love with themselves.
And they're going to show these women that didn't see how beautiful they were.
They're going to show them by shoving a gun in their head and splattering their brains all over the wall.
These are dangerous Satanist and I want them stopped because the left has created this and they've nurtured it and they hype it up and they know exactly what they're doing.
And these guys are clear and present danger, but you're not going to hear Jack squat out of the fake feminist at the CIA and Gloria Steinem because they've created these little monsters by putting a prohibition on manhood and rights of passage.
We're going to break, we take your calls and we get back 877-789-2539, 877-789-2539.
Do you think the worms turned? I can feel the energy at least in this chapter that things are bad, but we are turning the tide right now.
So much happening, so much going on.
I want to get this young man on in Illinois where they've banned him saying the word Jesus in a speech totally unconstitutional, but they invert everything.
The first amendment says you can't control what he says, but that's what their war against me is all about too.
The idea that you can't question chemical gas attacks or mass shootings or anything, and they misrepresent what I've said and then set that precedent to overturn it,
but it's only a testament to our effectiveness and your effectiveness spreading the word about infowars.com.
They can't stop you when you decide to act.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$39.95 and free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter. Get your bug assault today.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver Immune Gargle only available at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome and thank you so much Alex for the infowarslife products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on
and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You're stupid.
And we're kicking these trainers asses politically and we're not backing down at her.
I want to kick these people. We're winning. I can feel the spirit rising. Can't you? We have broken their back.
Yes, I can feel it.
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on.
Vengeance is coming. Fire is coming.
The real revolution against you is coming and you will burn in hell.
We have to break the globalist spell
How they intimidate us how they bully us how they censor us. I was just reading about this the other day
And I was talking to one of our tech guys who's doing a report on it
Harrison Smith YouTube is ending subscriptions
Yeah
They're ending subscriptions. They're ending your free will
They already don't let most people get most of the videos we send out. They already shadow band. They already blocked
But now they're announcing for everyone
They're gonna decide what comes up in the subscription feed period their algorithm will decide if you can even see
On the page you visit. So if you go to the Alex Jones channel and bypass them and use it as like a website even though they're blocking
90 plus percent of people from getting
Our notifications now
They're just gonna end
Subscriptions, but they'll act like it's there. Oh
You you still get your magazine in the mail
But if the government censor decides that that issue is not good, they'll put a notice up and they'll just take that magazine away
That's what this is imagine if the post office said
Well, we let everybody get time magazine unless we decide a particular issue isn't good
And then we're gonna go ahead and just take that you'd be like, this is incredible. My god is America, but
They're like, oh
Our algorithm will decide what subscriptions you actually get
They be none maybe all of them because they already force feed all the garbage if they want
A particular video creating race war in America to get 300 million views it will
They're gonna force feed it to you people go. We'll just leave YouTube. It's everywhere
They're coming after info wars they're coming after me they're having congressional hearings by they want to shut drudge report down
They're putting people in jail for six months to a year for making Hitler jokes that John Cleese made in
England it's here. I know I keep going over this but
Men and women better get aggressive you better go to your church and say I want to speak in front of the church
About censorship now that church said let you leave it. It's not a church
You need to be at city council. You need to be everywhere getting upset folks or they will take everything from you
We're striking back
We're fighting hard
We're committed because we know these are bad people
It's a normal instinct if somebody's laying on top of you suffocate in you
I
Remember the experience when I was like 10 years old before I started getting it when the puberty when I was 11 started fighting that
Back in the old days my parents were
What you call just main line Americans, but I would come home with black eyes and stuff. I'm almost said oh honey
I'm sorry my dad be like well, you know, how old are they they're 14 15 of them beat you up. Well
I mean you're out walking home from the school bus. Well, were there any rocks around?
Because you know if you have a bunch of guys that are four or five years old and you start you go ahead and smash them upside down with a rock and
You know a few times it was a really older kid doing something my dad would go threaten to kick their dad's ass or whatever, but
The whole point is I
Remember that a few times my dad wasn't a troublemaker, but you know
I'd be like six years old some 12 year old 14 year old beat me up
I remember my dad taking me the birds the door knocking some guy out tattoos twice my dad side walk out my dad say get your ass in the yard
I'm gonna beat that living hell out of you right now
Come on you son of a bitch and they wouldn't of course walk off that thing
My dad my mom told the story once
We're like five UT football players start a fight with my dad at the park as he had long hair and he beat the living hell at all
I'm now back then he was a gymnast to he could do the whole gymnast thing where we can all stick out straight and everything
Yeah, like hobbles around like like an old wizard, but the point is is that I'm no why I'm even going into these stories
I just cannot believe that people put up with this crap. I'm done with it. I'm tired of it
And and and and and they are attacking men in this country and they are they are they are trying to
Make everybody submit
to this garbage and
We don't even stand up for our children and we turn them into these wimps and these nanny states
But they're going to end up getting mugged or attacked sometime in their life and they're not gonna know what to do
And so they get even more scared and then they want then they want
the
Government to get bigger and have more power and then all it does is turn that into another corruption and today
I'm just all over the map. There's so much to get into
I'm telling stories about my dad stories about possums eating pumpkin pie
Who knows where I'll go next but
If we don't stand up to these globalists
They're gonna psychically financially culturally rapist and I don't care what happens to me as long as we get them off of us
Oh, that was where I went with the fighting. I
remember
Being about like 11 years old
When I finally like the when the when the when the burzarker came out
There was like four or five guys of this big fat guy was sitting on me spitting in my face
And they were all holding my arms and legs down and it's that experience of being beaten up
Slowly and finally just going into a total rage and throwing them off of me and grabbing a rock
My dad said smashing across one of their faces and then their parents tried to sue but they're all witness it doesn't happen
Hey, I'm sorry. You lost your eye. You fat piece of garbage. That's what war is like you start to fight you pay
And that's what Soros and all these creepy imagine when he was a kid. He was rounding up Jews
Think about who we're facing. These are the worst people on earth
And we're going to deal with them. We're going to annihilate them. We're going to win
You know, I said I'd go to Paul's report and it's too late to go to it. It's called
What's the name of it? I forget it's really powerful. It's about the in cell and you'll say it again
Truth about in cells
Truth about in cells and All right, I'm done ranting
So I'm gonna skip that I said I'd play it but take my intros to it earlier
We'll put it on YouTube and Facebook while we still have that look for the next few months where they totally shut it down and
Put Paul's report on that when we do put that at least on here and it will have it because the two go together
That's why I did that earlier. Oh
Yeah, you want to fight back byproducts. You really need that are great
And we've changed my life many others and support the operation show that just from entertainment perspective
We can be as big and mean and aggressive in this
Collision course we're on with the deep stake
So just fuel up my jet and I'll fly it right into them politically
That's a that's an allegory, but I'm on the tarmac. I'm ready for fueling. I want weapons loaded
I'm ready. Put me in the put me in the game coach put me in the game until the listeners
Just put me in the game Memorial Day special on the biggest ever 50% off or just across the board on dozens of products
X2 and bio tricillinium are now 50% off
together
I misread that combo yesterday, but now it the combo was proper brain force plus our amazing new trouble 50% off the real red pill 50% off
Oh, by the way, there's store-wide free shipping. I keep beginning to say that
Supermails were female about tell you 50% off alpha power. Oh, try that. Be careful 50% off DNA force plus the amazing product 50% off
That's huge floor alive the great probiotics of the very best from the research we can do in the top firms
This is the best you can get floor alive product 50% off free shipping in full wars super high quality swarble food private label for my
Patriot supply
We've never done a foods still sale this good
six month three month or one year
50% off that is so close to
Lossal here. It's amazing immune wall 50% off pollen block 50% off try them all
This is a great time to try the products you have a tritum
Sighted for auto ship and yet an additional 10% off info or store.com info wars life.com or triple eight two five three
Three one three nine. We'll be back on the other side of the info war as we engage the enemy at point blank range and accelerate
Towards absolute planetary victory and interstellar expansion
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down over the UK
They're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship
brainwash young people against info wars
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually have to say we are the most hated news source in the world by globalist
It is so critical that you go to info wars.com
Or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can bully their way in and
Lock us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight
We will prevail if you take action, and I know you will
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
Prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
Which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system
Info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon
But our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
Throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life comm or call 1-888-253-3139
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
Nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
Our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
Info wars life and info wars life comm is extremely excited to announce our latest release
Winner's son a revolutionary type of vitamin D3
Winner's son is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient-dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content
It's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price
This is it winner son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3 the research and development took over two years
But the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world
Read the facts at info wars life comm about winner son vitamin D3
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function
Something the globalists are targeting visit info wars comm today or call 888-253-3139
You're listening to the Alex Jones show
Well, I was thumbing from Montgomery. I had my guitar on my back
I'm gonna really start telling when a stranger stopped the station stories an antique Cadillac. He was dressed like 1950
Half-drunk and hollow out. You said it's a long walk to Nashville. Would you like to ride?
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
Them sad old songs coming out of them speakers was solid contra gold
Then I noticed a stranger was ghost white tear when he asked me for a light
And I knew there was something strange about this
He said he said
Can you make folks cry when you play sign? Have you paid your dues? Can you moan and lose?
Can you bend down guitar strings?
I said boy, can you make folks feel what you feel inside. I'm here to tell you
Cuz if you big star man, let me warn you. It's a long long hard ride live in a free country
But it's worth it, isn't it? If you don't animate yourself if you're not living your diet
All right, let's go to your phone calls. I've been all over the map today. There's so much huge news
Rosenstein is right down there in the Capitol right now in secret session being warned
The ultimatum they've already got all the intelligence
He's the president he's got all the files
They're just telling you to hand them over to Congress so you won't do it so it wets everybody's appetite you idiots
But Rosenstein you think you're smarter than everybody
Really cuz you're a little nerd and everything you got something to prove
Just get out of the way
Just get out of the way get out of the way. Don't you understand that that is such a that that ludicrous song
It has a very Christian ethos to it
If you actually look at it from one perspective because all we're saying is move
Move get out the way you see those headlights
You see me knock them curtains down
Get out the way get out the way get out the way
Get out the way
Get out the way
That'll be our new slogan in four wars calm get out the way get out the way get out the way
What is communism what is socialism? What is all political correct? It's do it gets in the way
The renaissance is what got rid of the slavery and launched the system of true open freedom
Which has been hijacked by people claiming they're the guardians of the freedom when they're the ones actually destroying the freedom
Hillary Clinton's official campaign theme song move bitch
It's not fair to female dogs, but that's the term that's kind of a compliment. They gave her move
Get out the way get out the way get out the way get out the way
It's that simple. Just get out the way
Trump was even offering to let Soros and all of them. Oh, what a smart
Ben Garrison
Graphic he put out that I'm going to your calls yesterday
Can we pull up the swamp on put it on screen people the swamp ingrained because notice everybody else is in the swamp
But Soros is an owl just put in front. Thanks Soros is an owl because he he's a globalist
He can just jump on an airplane leave
But not Hillary
Not John Podesta
Not the dead
alligator
or the New York Times
CNN
or the Washington Post
or the Bushes
all of it
circling the drain
Obama
Obama's kind of looking up the Hillary as he prepares his descent
It's express elevator
to hell
Gotta love it
There's old Soros
the horned owl
Sitting on top that tree of death
You
Know I think Ben Garrison's an idiot savant
He's super smart in person. I'm saying I don't think he even knows are typally. I don't think we'll realize what a master. He is a
True master
You know though some of us have got to go down with a ship just be prepared for that don't let them turn people going down with a ship as a defeat
It's a victory if we have to go down
With them some of us will be it but you have to really metaphysically tell God whatever it is do it
Because if we go down we don't have to take our children with us they can stay up on top
But if you're not willing to go down, you see the blood of patriots and tyrants is needed to water the Tree of Liberty
and all we have to do in this modern age is be willing to be politically assassinated financially assassinated and
If you won't do that
Well, you're gonna have your life run over everybody. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes to whatever the new threat is one of the new political correctness
Is if that just goes on forever
Then it's always more more more to now they're handing out condoms. I was reading the official press release this morning
I said, you know, let me go check and make sure the Boy Scouts really are handing out condoms like they said they are on Monday, and I went and read it
It said
Got it right here somewhere. It said all participants will be given condoms including the 11 year old boys and girls
all
Participants will be given condoms. What's the message there when you hand 11 year old boys?
condoms
the message is
Like handed somebody gun and bullets or hand of somebody chewing gum or handed somebody, you know
You walk in and say hey, here's a you know Nintendo controller. Oh, you want to play Nintendo? Well, what they're saying is get ready
For these poor young men that are just coming trying to learn how to camp and meet some friends get ready for so the Boy Scouts of America
the junior swingers of America
Just change the J from B junior
swingers America
Nothing's gonna go wrong and then I canvassed the former Boy Scouts here. I was a cup scout but then quit after that
So I never had was a church cup scouting was great
this one camping and stuff but
The time I was 11 I was already doing sports too much to be in the Boy Scouts
But I taught I canvassed the Boy Scouts here and they said no no 20 30 years ago
There was you know quite a bit of not with them, but you know quite a bit of well finds up. I had it described to me and
Let's just say they were giving fellatio lessons
and other things and
You know, that's you get your merit badge now for that I
Could make some really bad jokes, but I'm not gonna do it. I've got merit badges for a lot of things
I guess I could think of the merit badges that they're gonna be handing out
What are we not gonna put up with at this point folks? This is total cultural sabotage
Handing condoms to 11 year olds is pedophilia
Yes, we earned our safe anal sex merit badge that's that's basically what they're saying
God I mean and and where's it go next it goes into the abyss with 5g giving us all cancer
Let's just get off the road. Let's get off this plane. Let's get off this bus. Let's let's go the other direction
It's like green fields real rainbows everything over here
See everything fed it and collapsed
They advertise is beautiful and good. Yeah, there goes the boy scouts from praying around a nice meal
Learning how to be proficient
Fishing and hiking. No now. Here's your condoms
Now
Prepare yourselves. It's what everybody's doing young and impressionable boys. Oh
Don't ask girls out. That's sexual harassment here. Here's your condoms for yourselves. She don't touch the girls
They don't like you. You don't like them. Just come over here so that you don't have children
This is massive
pedophilia
preparation
The Boy Scouts of America is a pedophile induction center
Just like the Vatican and they're just mainlining it everywhere and people that have been raped by priests
They tell them the post is it is not a sin that you are gay. They're like, no, I was raped. You know, it is not a sin
enjoy yourself
Lose other loves you better the blood
Are you of the children?
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha oh
Liberal
It's not a sin my son
Now give me your children while the deputy pope is on trial for trafficking over 100 children
Do it it's liberal it let us run your life
he was control
Give the little boys the condoms and their scout leaders will help them teach them how
to put them on.
It's a new merit badge, my boy, and then you can join the new priesthood, and we will
teach you all far more than that.
You will enjoy the human sacrifice of smaller children with us as we resonate with hell
and Satan across the eons.
Give us your soul, open your soul for destruction and eternity of hell with me.
Give yourself unto Satan, desecrate the children, enter the gates of hell with short sorrows,
my lover.
Ah, yes, soon you will be dead forever.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the infomer.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield InfoWarsLife.com.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Your pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try Bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
We are now seeing the new weapons systems of InfoWars, opening weapons lockers.
Now I can really begin to attack, like a video game, but it's real, metaphysically, now the
big armories are about to open, the big wars here.
The enemy has openly come out with their pushing of pedophilia and Satanism, handing out condoms
to 11-year-old boys so they get their merit badges in group sex, it's all being confirmed.
Patrick sent Australia, Godfrey Bloom's coming up from the UK, I don't want to host a few
shows, I want to get him hosting some shows with us, and then we're going to go to Wild
and Pastor Sam and Carlos and Jim and everybody.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide, thanks for holding.
Hey Alex mate, I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now, I remember back
when InfoWars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to
load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and since
then I've read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and
I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then
I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, MicroZX, Body,
it's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there, 1776
worldwide.
Well, God bless you and look at how world government, everything, it's just out in the
open now and there's huge awakenings happening, but they're just accelerating it now.
When people complain to the Pope about being raped by priests, he says, it's okay to be
gay.
He's saying, it's okay, we raped you, it's so sick.
It's so crazy and do you remember like 10 years ago, if you even talked about conspiracy
theories, people would just laugh at you.
No one's laughing now, in fact, everyone's freaked out and that's the best part is that
people are starting to take it seriously and Trump, you know, he's doing it for the world.
It's not just America.
The world's going to follow his example.
Thank God bless you, Trump.
Absolutely, and it's Brexit was an example to Trump and we're all doing this together
and you're right.
The energy level of liberty is rising and they can feel it and thank God for Nigel Farage
and all the other great patriots.
God bless you from Australia, appreciate you, Patrick, you're awesome.
All right, let's go to Jim in California.
Jim, you're on the air.
Go ahead.
How are you doing?
Good, my friend, go ahead.
Hey, I want to thank you for the red pill I got quite a few years ago.
I've called and talked to you before and one of the things I was, write this down if you
care.
There was a really good song that fits your program.
It's by Triumph and it's called Fight the Good Fight.
We have that.
We have Fight the Good Fight in the computer in there.
We'll come in with Fight the Good Fight.
It's a great song.
I just haven't heard it.
That's why I brought it up.
What I was bringing up, what I was going to talk to you about was the not so wacko kid
and some of the stuff that happened.
I've been a Bible reader and study it for many years and you know that the word, the
root word that Satan comes from is liar, then devil is man's liar.
If so, if you figure out that for a minute, then you think about what is the theme of
the Bible.
You know, every book's got a theme and what's the theme of the Bible?
Well, it's God's kingdom.
It's how we started out perfect, then chose around free will, or at least our parents
did, to do the wrong thing and so he could have ended it right there, but then people
would have been saying, hey, you know, you didn't give us enough time to figure out how
to govern ourselves.
So we've now had 6,000 years if you go by Bible time.
I know people argue with that.
No, it's powerful info.
Stay there.
I got a guest coming up.
We're going to take a few calls to stay with us.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Find fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take
advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Alright, we're now into the third hour.
Godfrey Bloom, former member of the EU Parliament, one of the great leaders in UKIP, one of the
great associates of Nigel Farage.
He's with us and I'm looking in the future to try to start more broadcast, have some
podcasts.
Let her host it out of the UK, trying to build a news division there, Paul Watson does a
great job and he's going to be involved in that, so we're trying to work more with Godfrey
Bloom and reducing him to our audience.
He has hundreds of millions of views for all his great videos online.
He is a military historian, a veteran, a patriot.
I'm not going to go over his whole bio, but godfreybloom.uk and our fight against the
EU is critical.
They're in trade wars with the UK, trade wars with the US.
It's an unelected criminal group.
They say, well wait, he was elected to their parliament, that's ceremonial.
Their advisory to the permanent EU, that's a communist system basically, like the Central
Committee in the Politburo, then you can have a president or have some other advisory group.
It's just that.
I've got a bunch of stuff I want to cover with him, but for Americans thinking, man,
they're attacking Trump, they're trying to kill the economy, it's really neck and neck
who's going to win this thing.
Not when you pull back globally and you've got nationalism, you've got the rediscovery
of free market capitalism, you've got anti-globalism, anti-saurosism, really exploding from Latin
America to Africa to Asia, but in Europe because of the Islamic invasion and the whole plan
to repopulate Europe with Islamists and then make people convert to that, it is on fire.
So the globalists aren't fighting a one-front war, a two-front war, a three-front war or
a five-front war, they're fighting with communist China at the heart of it.
With the EU, with the corrupt Vatican now captured by the globalist and the Islamists
against the rest of the world, that's the constellation, that's the axis of evil we're
facing and Mr. Bloom is a great military historian and highly respected, he can get
into any area he wants, but I remember Nigel Farage and Mr. Bloom, 10 years ago, warning
of the secret EU army plan, they denied it, now they just go, oh, you're going to try
to pull out, we're going to march EU troops in, we're going to put million euro fines
on you, Romania, Hungary, Poland, if you don't let in migrants, which are invaders, I mean
this, this, the war is now, they don't label it a war, but it's here.
And so he's, I want to get into this with him, situation in Italy where we're having
striking victories, a new populist anti-EU government has formed and what's beautiful
of this is, it's the liberals waking up, being pro-nationalism, anti-open borders, realizing
they're going to all be bankrupted, with the right wing government and Mr. Bloom is an
expert on that, knowing many of the people in Italy and members of the EU parliament.
So the fight is on, corporate media, corporate is globalist media, we'll try to black all
this out, but despite all the censorship, despite all the disinformation, despite all the intimidation,
despite conservatives being banned and censored across the internet and punished monetarily,
we are growing stronger, like when the Nazis, I don't just say this because he's British,
it's a great historical parallel, the Brits weren't sure they wanted to have a fight with
Hitler and you know, Dunkirk, you know, you got the people leaving and you've got the
head of the Luftwaffe, Hammond during, just saying, oh, let's just have some target practice.
And Hitler not even wanting to, you know, put half a million trips or whatever in prisoner
war camps. He thought England would just set it out. Well, there was debates about sitting
it out until he began to bomb the civilian targets. And that's the thing about these
bullies and tyrants and people like Hillary and Soros shooing us and the rest of it.
They think that when they attack us, that it makes us go away. They think when we used to be asleep,
that their intimidation had made us cower. No, no, they're slapping us in the face
and pissing on us woke us up. Now it doesn't matter what they do. We're on a rampage of
restoring what works. So that's my bottom line. Mr. Bloom, I just wanted to announce
how exciting it is. This is going on. I think Godfrey Bloom dot UK. Thank you so much for
joining us. What do you make of my rant? Good morning. Yeah, really very interesting and getting
more interesting. By the week, isn't it? We now see do we not perhaps one of the biggest
disconnects between the political class and the people in the Western industrial democracies?
You've got your political class and your bureaucracy saying one thing and doing one thing
and the people doing another. So it's a classic case over here, for example, in Great Britain,
where we had our referendum to leave the European Union. 17 million plus people voted to leave.
That was won by the people who wanted to leave in the teeth of the opposition from mainstream media,
the bureaucracy and years and years and years of propaganda. So consequently, what is quite
fascinating is that the people still didn't fall for it. They still voted to leave. Now that was
two years ago. That was two years ago. What's happening now, of course, is it's being blocked
by the political class. Two years ago, we're not one tiny bit, we're not one tiny bit further
to leaving the European Union than we were two years ago. But that only illustrates that this
is a real authoritarian system. Yes, it does. And of course, the ruling class, the political class
have more in common with each other. So your ruling bureaucrat and politician has a Brit,
has more in common with a Frenchman or a Spaniard or a German than he does with his own people.
And they live in their own bubbles. You know, we have that splendid institution,
the pub over here in over here in England. You will never find a politician in a pub.
And that's a great shame because that's where you learn what people are actually thinking.
And by the way, I don't know EU bureaucratic leaders in the permanent state even have children.
They don't go to pubs. They don't have children. They're dead. What's wrong with them?
Well, they are zealots. What has actually happened, of course,
and you made reference to the Catholic Church a little bit earlier. What's happened is that
when you become a secular state, when you become a secular state, which the European Union is,
it's a super state, but it's a state nevertheless, what actually happens, it becomes secular. And
so consequently, the new super state becomes the religion. That's the religion. It's it has
people now don't go to church very much anymore. Religion is generally falling. So people embrace
something new. And this is where the bureaucrats, your high priests of the bureaucracy actually
gone. So it's it's it's it's rather interesting phenomenon. I mean, they admit political correctness
is the new religion. World government corporatism is the religion. The big corporate heads, none of
them even pay taxes, but want poor people to have their taxes raised, like Bloomberg said. I mean,
this is just a horrible, evil group claiming their atheist, but really their Satanist, they want to
be God. Well, yes, of course, what is interesting is that the bureaucracy in the European Union
don't pay tax. They have a court, they have a special rate. It starts at 120,000. You have
your first 120,000 euros a year tax free. And the rest is at a concert rate of 10%. They have
non contributing pension schemes, these people. Let me say that again, they've got income taxes at
101% for some groups in France. But the EU bureaucrats, you heard me right. The EU bureaucrats
have it set at 10%. I mean, they're the new royalty, really. Oh, yes, they are. And, of course,
I made a speech in the chamber about this subject about four years ago. And would you believe it
had over 30 million hits worldwide? A lot of people still don't know that these characters,
these spivs, these crooks, these gangsters don't pay tax. And I actually exposed them when they
were having a debate about tax evasion. Would you believe the almighty crust of these people
having a debate about tax evasion when they were the biggest tax evaders on the face of the planet?
Their desire for power is only outmatched by the hubris and the hypocrisy and that they get away
with it. I mean, if you look at Bezos, Bezos and all these big billionaires, they pay almost zero
tax. They get the laws written. And then Bloomberg does the same thing. He totally avoids most of
taxes. And then he lectures that poor people need to pay more yesterday at an economic forum. He
said it's good for them. When any economist will tell you, you shouldn't even tax poor people.
Well, of course, absolutely. And of course, the other great religion is climate change,
which of course we all now know to be completely bogus. And so you get the great and the good,
flying all over the place in their jets, telling us we can't go on holiday because we're polluting
the atmosphere. Absolutely extraordinary. Well, this is the big enchilada. The globalists pay
almost no tax, but lecture some middle-class family all day. They need to pay more. We're back
with Godfrey Bloom on the other side to cover the real global revolution against the billionaires
pushing collectivism, but not for themselves. Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing
bacon. No refrigeration required. Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest, center-cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat
right from the pouch or warm and serve. Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com. ReadyToEatBacon.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you
too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX
or my website, danpilla.com. Heart disease is on the rise. Clogged arteries, high blood pressure,
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes, and drops, poor circulation, and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Hear how heart and body
extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America. My blood pressure
has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how much healthier
I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to
everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a
preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two-month supply today by
calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online, hbextract.com. Heart and
body extract, 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about
the 60-plus products, we have it in Fuller's life. It takes hours. Michael's DX Plus now is a lower
price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold,
the candida. It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the
preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the
minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product, it goes great
with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle
that's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality
silver, and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering in Fuller
Store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that
aren't awake. It's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part
of the Second American Revolution. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of
prepping. Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With InfoWare's life-select
storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such as
traveler's stew, home-style potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner. InfoWare's life-select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook
and transport food for you and your loved one's trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWare's life-select storable foods.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones.
That's why we're under attack, but we are winning, ladies and gentlemen. But all over the western
world, draconian censorship is here. The globalists are saying you can't say the word Jesus in your
commencement speech. And major universities and high schools, they are attacking the family.
Canada is saying don't say mother or father on any type of forms. It's hurtful to say there's a
mother and father. This is cult level. And Godfrey Bloom went right at the heart of it, that
political correctness, global warming, all this stuff, now it's climate change. Well,
of course we know there's climate change. We're just saying paying you a global carbon tax doesn't
fix it. The only constant is change. Godfrey Bloom, military historian, former member of the EU
parliament, his speeches are right up there with those of Nigel Farage and the great
dynamic duo. You were getting into this religion and how do we counter it? How it's now challenging
free speech to try to stop us? It's alliance with Islam. As a historian, those that know the
past know the future. This is a big question. I should ask this two-week skill and I should
come on so you can think about it. Looking into your crystal ball economically, militarily,
all of it's the same thing. The EU, all these authoritarian regimes are arrogant, but the
reality, the cracks go to their foundations. There really cannot be propped up without total war
and that itself will fail. So I just understand why they don't run the white flag up. And I think
it's because the very criminal nature of it is they don't care as individuals. They will extract
through the system as long as they can, even though it's destroying the very system that gives them
power. There is a ignorance to evil, I think, but they don't have the big large fourth, fifth,
six-dimensional understanding. So if you could quantify, finish a couple of your religion
comment, the new religions, which are really just the old religions, brought back and looking
into the future, what you projects going to happen? Well, these things, generally speaking,
are cyclical. And of course, in the old days, your medieval king raised taxes to go to war for
his own personal benefit and he was quite honest about it. And if you didn't pay your taxes, he
chopped your head off. And that was that. And he went off to war. Now we have a different system now
of tax, where they try and tell us that taking tax from us is for our own benefit. We are somehow
supposed to be grateful for them taking tax away from us. And of course, then they squander it,
or worse still, they actually misappropriate it. And we weren't warned about this. America was
warned about it. The free world was warned about this by General Eisenhower, President Eisenhower,
as he then was. He warned us of the industrial military complex. Did he not? The industrial
and the full title was the Industrial Military and Congressional Congress, where the budget
now in the United States is nearly a trillion pounds a year. And yet the Cold War finished
years ago. The Soviet, the Russians actually cut last year their budget, their defense budget,
by 20%. One asks oneself, why does America need 11 aircraft carrier groups? Why are they taxing
everybody for this military complex? And it's just the same in the United Kingdom. We've now
got two aircraft carrier groups. The Lord only knows what we're supposed to do with them. We
don't even have any airplanes to fly off them at the moment. So the whole thing becomes self-funding.
So I don't know quite where it's going to end. I hope it doesn't end in war. But you and I both
know, and your listeners know, there's a determination. There's a determination on war by a clique
in America. And the British go along with it, where you're that dog. And this can only end
in tears. And very disappointing, very disappointing, because there's a lot of Trump supporters over
here. And I was one of them before the election, and the elected Trump, and he was going to have
the talk with Russia. He was going to do the right things. He was going to bring the boys back
from Syria and the Middle East. He said that it does no good there. And he was going to bring them
back. And he's reneged on that. And he's put some psychos in the war. Well, that was my next
question. You look at Bolton. Exactly. You look at Bolton openly trying to sabotage the North
Korean South Korean peace deal. You look at this new CIA director, the president smart on his ideas
and who he is. But the sophistication of all this and how deep the swamp is, you're right,
he is beginning to go somewhat sideways on the whole. We should be out of Afghanistan,
but the longest war in world history. Well, of course, we fought four times in Afghanistan.
We had four wars in Afghanistan. The Russians had one. You would think sometimes would sit
around the table, wouldn't you? And think that it's an unwinnable situation. I was in Afghanistan
two or three years ago with the RAF regiment. So I saw it all firsthand. Didn't Alexander the Great
finally fail in Afghanistan too? Everybody fails in Afghanistan. And the reason is there's nothing
there. But you know, it's just mountains and mud. There's nothing there. There's no point.
How do you conquer a bunch of cavemen? People don't even know about the Afghan culture. It's
bizarre. They keep the boys as girls and the men wear dresses. It's just a lunatic asylum. I mean,
why would anybody even want that? Because I guess it's between all those key countries.
Well, it was a buffer zone for the British, of course, in the last century or the century before
last, the 19th century, it was a buffer zone. And the Russians and the British used to squabble
over it and infiltrate. It was called the Great Game. There are some fascinating books on this.
It's called the Great Game. And it's well worth looking up. But this is now happening all over
the place. I just did an essay. You can find it on my website called Spheres of Influence.
And what's happened since the end of the Cold War? We've thrown away the rulebook. We all knew what
we were doing. The bad guys were the Soviets on the one side. The good guys were us NATO on the
other side. The good guys had the white hats. The bad guys had the black hats. And we all knew
where we were. And we were very careful how we played the game because it could end in nuclear
conflict. We seem to have thrown the rule back out of the way now. And we seem to have people
running the show who come straight out of Dr. Strangelove. I don't know. A lot of your listeners,
a lot of your listeners won't be old enough. Animals will be bred. Animals will be slaughtered.
Of course, we can live underground for many years. There will be a ratio of 10 to 1 female male.
They will have to be selected for their stimulating qualities.
But Mandrake, Mandrake, you know over here with that belt, boy. Me with the gun, you with the belt.
Feeding, feeding me, Mandrake. Mandrake, you know, I only drink rainwater.
Well, the Americans voted, the Americans voted for Trump because he, his manifest said he was
going to do something about it. And it's the same with us. I'm not having a pop at America. I'm not
having a pop at Trump. It's just the same here. We have a prime minister who's surrounded herself
by these deep state representatives. Her advisor on Brexit is a man called Olly Robbins, who's
diverted his entire life to the European Union. The whole civil service is devoted to the European
Union. You couldn't get promoted in the European Union unless you were devoted to the cause.
Sure. It's like the Communist Party. So let me ask this for you.
Let me ask you this just a bit. I'm talking about politically, not just militarily,
with these authoritarian regimes in decline, following the classic pattern of becoming more
authoritarian as they're in decline, which guarantees the acceleration towards their demise,
except for all the super weapons we've got now. It just, I mean, this is insane. This does not
look good. I mean, it looks very explosive. The future looks very explosive. It's rather sad
because if you look historically, when you see an empire collapse, it's normally followed by
either two things, either another empire or a dark age. And I'm sorry to say, I think we're
probably going for a dark age, a new dark age. And Trump, at least in his rhetoric,
and others are trying to pull us out of the new dark age. And let's look at the permutation of
that dark age because the globalists have decided on a breakaway civilization, new dark age Elysium
scenario. And now you're going to the heart of their master plan. They have decided to control
the crash of civilization and depopulation into a new dark age, emergency transmission straight
ahead. If you or anyone you love has been diagnosed with lung cancer, asbestosis or mesothelioma,
your diagnosis may be the result of job related exposure to asbestos and you may be entitled
to compensation. Over 30 billion in trusts have been set aside for individuals who have been
affected by asbestos exposure. How do you protect your rights and get the compensation you deserve?
Call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG. Capital Legal Group is one of the nation's
resources for settlement of lung cancer in mesothelioma cases. Law firms have successfully
recovered over $2.7 billion for their clients in all 50 states and claims have been paid in
as little as 60 days. If you or a family member were diagnosed with lung cancer asbestosis or
mesothelioma, call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG. We'll open a no cost case review
on your behalf. A history of tobacco use or cigarette smoking will not disqualify your case.
Visit 800-400-LUNG.com or call 800-400-LUNG. Call 800-400-5864 now. That's 800-400-LUNG.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the InfoWare to fight the globalists and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe. I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product
is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so
well. This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWare
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try Alpha Power exclusively available
at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain,
it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA. Get your Alpha Power today
at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
We brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and
so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed
for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products
and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived
or of the highest quality lab standard. That means it's clean, that means it's pure and
rest-secured. You're fighting the tip of the spear in the InfoWare. That's InfoWarsLife.com
and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out. Western Europe has already banned
free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is ascending down over the UK. They're set to pass
rules on a law that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison. We know we're
only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK. CNN and many others are calling for
InfoWars to be shut down, taken off the web. Slate magazine has a professor and others saying
go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against InfoWars. Psychologically inoculate
them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say. We are the most hated news source
in the world by globalists. It is so critical that you go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't
bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society
that is critical to this fight. We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
In defense of human liberty, Alex Jones.
When I die and God pulls that gate, I want to go for eight, infinity. All right, Godfrey Blum,
I'm going to have him host a couple segments because you know that we'll get to get to hearing
yourself and in those segments, this segment, part of this segment, the next maybe five minutes,
the next hour, ahead of our next host, he wants to take a few of your calls and there's a bunch
of callers already holding that want to talk about geopolitical stuff like Carlos and others.
So if you want to talk to Mr. Blum, we'll keep you on hold. If not, I'm sorry the other callers
were out of time. I'm going to, I'm going to, what they call flush those calls out that you're
flushable, but you're another topic to talk to me. If you want to talk to Godfrey Blum,
he'll take a few of your calls. The toll-free number to join us is 877-789-ALAX, 877-789-2539.
One of the hardest fighters for nationalism, for patriotism, for libertarianism in the whole
global system against the New World Order. And again, it was the whole Brexit model that led
to what we've seen with Trump. We're talking about Trump leading the way globally against this and
we hope he stays true to that. He's starting to falter a bit. We understand he's under tremendous
pressure. It's the, it's the ideology he's pushing though that is the very, very positive part of
it. And so I support the president 100% and I pledged to him personally that, you know, I'm
going to support what he's doing, the operations. They're going to try to destroy me one way or
the other, even if I was to turn on the president, which I will never do. So there's a problem though
being totally committed now that as he starts to go sideways some, I'm having some real moral
issues which I've never had in my life. I've never been so committed to something at a point,
but that's a whole another discussion for another day. Briefly, if you don't support us
and their disinformation campaigns, I mean, because as fast as they file lawsuits, we get them
dismissed, they file more as you saw yesterday. It is a way of just publishing lies to then have
the media drive through the mud. It doesn't work with our listeners or our affiliates,
but it takes time and money with the lawyers. So if you will stand with us and if you will
financially support us, we won't just stay where we're at. We're going to expand to 24 hours a day
and they know we're getting a lot of TV stations right now. We're exploding, but TV station viewers,
you know, don't really buy anything. Okay. So again, you hear radio sponsors, you see local
sponsors, that's their sponsors. With us, 80% of the money is you buying products. So we make it
easy, man. Whatever the top filter at the lowest price says for air in your house, we got it. Lexapure,
whatever the best durable food is, we got it. Whatever the best shortwave radios, we got it.
Whatever the best tactical gear, we got it. Whatever the best water filtration, we go out,
we get it. And we give it to you a super low price. A lot of times even lower than Amazon can.
And he's got all the government perks and the rest of it, we don't. We have free shipping
on all of our bestselling items at m4store.com right now. I'm not going to list them all. So
Godfrey Bloom has time to get into this whole dark age we're facing that the globalists have
talked about. They're going to institute the brain force X2, alpha brain, super male, immune
wall, pollen block, it's all 50% off and free shipping. I don't have time to get into all the
rave reviews. It's Memorial Day special. We're running it through Memorial Day. And listen,
as long as you stand with us, we're going to expand in the face of the enemy. So you give us
the seed money while you get great products at the same time, we will expand. And we have all sorts
of innovations and things we want to implement, but it's up to you to support us. So please,
make the decision and commit to buy products to sign up for auto ship on some of the stuff like
supplements or our great coffee, American coffee, the kind of stuff you're going to reorder,
you get 10% off additionally. So it's a win-win for supporting us and you don't forget about
supporting us each month. Please commit today. It's never been easier m4store.com, m4slife.com.
Okay, you heard my point. I'm going to hand a baton to you and you can go wherever you want
here because I just want to sit back before I go to a meeting and just hear what you have to say.
I do this occasionally while we all shut up. Godfrey Bloom, former member of the EU parliament,
author of military historian, a folks who's joined us. Exactly. Empires love them, hate them,
good ones, bad ones. When they collapse, there's a bunch of wars over who's going to be the new
empire. That almost always happens. And then if that fails, you break into little sub districts
and then you end up having a dark age and things get really barbarous. So
what did the Romans ever do? The aqueduct. It gets into a Monty Python skin at that point,
but this globalism is an evil empire. There ever was one, probably more evil than the Soviet Union
because it's more sophisticated. So how do we avert that and not have the corporate global
empire but then get back to a multipolar world about space exploration and a future when the
globalists have decided to have a breakaway civilization, exempt themselves from taxes,
give themselves diplomatic immunity, as you pointed out in parliament years ago,
make themselves the new royalty, but they don't have to lead the armies. You don't even know
who they are. They're just broken away with their cloud cities basically as an allegory
of Elysium. And that's their words. And then we're just all down here with a police state over
us that they control via a remote controlled technocracy or even decision makings removed.
And men aren't even in the military anymore. I mean, this is a humanity ending scenario we've
reached. So let's look at the bleak future from a military historian highly respected view on the
New Dark Age that your own Ministry of Defense in 2007 projected by 2022 if globalism didn't
stop breaking its promises. Well, we know it was always designed to break the promises.
This is why it's being abandoned by people throughout the system. So let's go through that.
Thank you take over. Well, of course, history will tell us you learn everything from history
that nothing is new on the face of the earth. Nothing is new. You look at history. So if you
look at let's take Great Britain or Britain as it was then Romano Britain and when the Roman
Empire are left, the Roman Empire eventually left in about 450 AD because they were over extended.
Their political system had been totally corrupted and they actually left Great Britain and what
actually went wrong there is they left an infrastructure, but they didn't leave any
protection. And so there was no protection. So the barbarians came to Great Britain.
The Hun was at the gate of Rome. The eternal city fell and all these things took place because of
the initial corruption of their political system. And of course, the corruption of their currency.
Now it's another interesting thing. They added alloys to the silver and the gold of their currency,
which is what we're doing now by what they call quantitative easing. So we're actually
devaluing and degrading our currency. So they couldn't even buy off the barbarians anymore
because the barbarians knew it was it was crap metal. Absolutely. And the whole thing,
the whole thing then collapsed. And then we came through and we had the Saxon period in England.
Of course, actually, that was quite useful. That was the beginning as it were coming out of the
dark age. Well, it was the Saxon period about 800 to 900 AD. And that's when common law started.
That's when law started. That's when natural justice started. And it was in small communities.
It was villages. And so we need to get back to small. Big and centralized is bad when it comes
to politics or economics or anything. And gradually we came out of that. And Europe then
drifted towards city states, the city states, the great Italian Renaissance and things like this.
And in this country, and I alluded to it earlier, you put your finger on it. And that was in 1688,
people know we had the Bill of Rights. But what they tend to forget sometimes, because they
haven't had the benefit of a traditional education, was the toleration acts of about the same time.
Religious toleration, toleration acts. So what's actually happened now, we've moved backwards.
We have brought back blasphemy laws after three or 400 years. We bought back blasphemy laws into
Great Britain, where you can now go to prison for blasphemy. But the irony is, it isn't blasphemy
against the Christian religion. It's blasphemy against the Islamic religion. So you can say
anything you like about Christianity, but you will go straight to prison if you bad mouth Islam.
So it isn't even a level playing field. And this is when society, law and natural justice starts
to break down. Yes, I'm afraid it's a new dark age. So how do we come out of this?
How do we come out of this? Democracy, as it was understood in the Athenian time,
was not for everybody who just attained the age of 18. It was people who put skin in the game.
So what we've got to do is get our democracy back to people who contribute, not to those people
who suck at the public teeth. They're the ones who are actually draining resources. We need to
give more political power to those people who are creating resources. So that's really how we
need to go about these things at the moment. It doesn't look like we're even moving in the
right direction. But I think we're coming up to the break now and hope to talk to some of you
as you phone in. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With InfoWars life-selects storable food,
you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals
in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy,
easy, and incredible meals. Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. InfoWars life-selects
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved
one's trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars life-selects storable foods.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars
life-daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance
and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you
receive. There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with
20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut
and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars
life-daily digestive pack today. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2
and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard
seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure
deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival Shield
X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your
chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
at infowarslife.com. I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or
books or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and
adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us
so we need your support. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I hope you're having a good day. I certainly am. The sun's shining. I'm talking to you today from
Yorkshire. I hope one day you'll get to visit me over here. Now I know that some of you are
hanging on and some of you've been hanging on for a while and I think Carlos, Carlos,
you've been hanging on for a while with the questions about what you'd like to fire ahead.
Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Bloom. I just wanted to bring up a point.
Quite important, when you're talking about globalists and globalism as a philosophy and policy,
I want to draw attention to a quote that was made to the U.S. Senate by Mr. James Paul Warburg
of the Federal Reserve of the United States. He said, we shall have world government whether
or not we like it. The only question is whether world government will be achieved by conquest
or consent. The globalists have enjoyed the facility of printing money out of thin air
to the tune of quadrupling since the last crisis in 2008 to 4.5 trillion dollars of money printed
out of thin air that is now owed to whom, to those who print the money out of thin air.
And the problem is, is that when you have a champion as you would have in any European country,
trying to look for the interests of the nation, it's like having your champion in a poker game
where one of the players can print money out of thin air all night and it's the question is,
who is going to win the game? So in my personal opinion, I agree with you. They're laughing up
their sleeve as they finance Soros or any enterprise anywhere for global control. And as long as
they're able to print money out of thin air, no Trump, no leader in the world can really deal with it.
I'm glad you made the point, Carlos, about the poker game. It's because I expect many of you
will know, but I think I suspect some of you won't know. What is a rather interesting phenomenon
and that is if you go into a Las Vegas casino, they cannot issue you a plastic chip for $10 or
$50 or whatever it happens to be to play poker or the roulette wheel or indeed anything else,
unless they have the bullion downstairs in the vault. They must have the bullion in order to do
that. And of course, under the old gold system, when the dollar was linked to gold, the Fed couldn't
issue a dollar bill unless they had the gold in the vault. And of course, they moved away from
that when Nixon closed the gold window in 1971. So what you have is this rather straughty situation
today where your $1971 will only buy you eight cents worth of goods today. The worst thing you
could possibly do for any politician is give them a money printing machine and no responsibility.
So what they do is they print and they print and print and they squander it in any event.
And that's what's happened to the Yankee dollar. And that's what's going to happen again. And this
is the protection against possible global, a global government because they can't manage money.
And it was the same way that the Roman Empire collapsed. And if you look at your history books,
you'll see that was the known world. The Roman Empire was the known world. And it collapsed
not just because of their currency, which was a major part of it, but they couldn't defend their
borders. And we're noticing now, are we not, in Europe, that they cannot defend the borders.
The borders are being invaded by an alien culture. And that is the kind of thing that's going to
actually go to drag everybody down with it. It's going to drag global government down.
Sadly, it's going to drag the rest of us down with it. But yes, you're absolutely right.
We can't go on like this. And it must end. It must end in tears one way or the other.
There's another caller, I think. And thank you for that, Carlos. Thank you for that very
interesting point. I entirely agree with you. Salvador, I think there's another man waiting
on the line. Salvador, would you like to go ahead with your question?
Wesley? Next man? Hi, Wesley. Hi, I was wondering, well, here in America, we have the idea of
freedom of speech and petitioning your government. In the UK, you seem to lack that. And I don't
know what your people are supposed to do. When you can get arrested for speech, what are you
supposed to do to wake everybody up? I feel for all of you because I feel like you are my brothers,
your Western civilization. Western civilization goes down where everybody is screwed.
You're absolutely right, Wesley. You're absolutely right on this. And of course,
it's a question of how long the darkness will last. There's a new dark age, which, of course,
the behind the iron curtain, which, of course, was referred to by Winston Churchill behind the
iron curtain, the secret police, the thought police, the prison for anybody who thinks outside
the box, as it were. And this is one of the great problems. We've got to go through that. It's going
to get worse before it gets better. And then, of course, we saw the collapse of the Berlin Wall.
I was in Berlin when it happened. And things started to bounce back from behind the iron curtain.
But it's going to have to get worse because sooner or later, we're going to have to take,
all of us, going to have to take to the streets and actually throw these people out of office,
the Fed, the Wall Street bankers, the CIA. President Kennedy warned us about the machinations of
the CIA, you know. All of this has been, we have been warned about all of this. And we all need to
wake up all of us. And of course, it is the other problem that we have, is red and blue. You can
only vote red or blue in America. It's the same with Britain. We can only vote red or blue. And
there's no difference between the two, generally speaking. You still get the same muppets on both
sides. I made a speech about this a little while ago. I think we've got time to go into it on state,
state theft. Tax is, broadly speaking, theft by the state. And I think people are ready,
because that speech got somewhere in the region of 30 million, 40 million worldwide hits. It's
only about a minute and a half or something. I think perhaps we might go to that. Can we go to that?
President, I'm minded, actually, to quote the great American philosopher,
Murray Rothbard, here, that the state, the state is an institution of theft writ large.
Tax is just about a system where politicians and bureaucrats steal money from their citizens
to squander in the most disgraceful manner. This place is no exception. Fascinatingly,
and I really don't know how you manage to keep a straight face when you're talking about tax
evasion. The whole commission and the commission bureaucracy avoid their taxes. You don't pay
taxes like citizen pay taxes. You have all sorts of special deals, composite tax rates, high tax
thresholds, non-contribute pension schemes. You are the biggest tax avoiders in Europe,
and here you sit pontificating. Well, the message is getting home to the people of the European
Union. You're going to find that Euro skeptics are coming back in June in ever greater numbers,
in ever greater numbers. And I can tell you worse, as the people get your number, it won't be long
before they storm this chamber and they hang you and they'll be right. Well, you heard it first
for me. I think we all need to stand up and we all need to be heard, don't we, right across the free
world. And it's a shame that we seem to be moving backwards, but I think we've got another caller.
Have we from California? Hi. Jim. Yeah, I'm here. Jim in California. Yeah, I'm here. Can you hear me?
Hello? Hello, Jim. Yeah, I wanted to talk. Yeah, can you hear me? Yeah, far away. I wanted to
talk about kind of bringing some geopolitics that relates to what's going on now with
spy gate or whatever. But I think that kind of what was happening was under Obama, the CIA was
kind of running wild, as you know, with Hillary and they were arming rebel groups. And Libya,
that Brennan was going to Ukraine and interfering with their political system and then again in
Libya. And, you know, there's a lot of financial, maybe topics to deal with and their goals and
what happened there with France and everyone kind of leading the motive to go in there and
mess it up basically. But these guys were just running wild in the CIA under Obama. And I don't
think what was happening. You're right. You're quite right. You're quite right. We're running
out of time, I'm afraid, but you're absolutely right. The CIA has gone rogue. And in fact,
Kennedy actually said, President Kennedy, he said that one thing he, if there was one thing he
could have actually achieved in his term of office, so sadly, cut short. And that he would have got
rid of the CIA. The CIA is a complete menace and it's gone rogue, as most secret societies always
do. And the CIA is simply a secret society with almost unlimited funds. But yeah, we're going
to see how these things develop. But we've got a finger on the button at the Alex Jones show,
that's for sure.
In fact,
current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an
enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body. Staying healthy on the
go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes supplements don't work fast
enough. That's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line,
super blue, silver immune gargle available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and 16 ounce
bottles. Immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go. The incredible new
purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay
clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients. Immune gargle
features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver
immune gargle. Staying toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and
stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life.com.
That's info wars life.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Relentlessly attacking the power structure. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Some of them want to use you. Some of them want to get used by you. Some of them want to.
In Russia, they call this the Saloviki, the national security leadership that secretly spies on
the entire citizenry of Russia. And here we are in the United States with our own Saloviki
underneath President Obama. Let me tell you something that I know for a fact. This informant,
this person that they planted, tried to plant into the campaign and even into the administration,
if you believe Axios, he's not the only person that came at the campaign. And the FBI is not the
only Obama agency that came at the campaign. I know because they came at me and I'm looking for
clearance from my attorney to reveal this to the public. This is just the beginning. And I'll tell
you when we finally find out the truth about this director clapper and the rest of them are
going to be wearing some orange suits. You just heard Michael Caputo break that down. I was thinking
about this this morning and it gave me a headache because there are so many known FBI, Democratic
Party, George Soros Foundation, Defense Intelligence, CIA, globalist operatives who were openly
surveilling Trump when he was a candidate, when he was the nominee, when he was President-elect,
and even once he was president. First, oh, we're never spying on you. We're monitoring your digital
transmissions, not wiretapping. That's an old term. So technically we're not wiretapping,
we're just intercepting everything you do illegally. Oh, we always said we didn't have
moles inside the campaign. We had informants for your own safety, run by Hillary Clinton
and run by Strach and run by McCabe and run by Mueller and all the rest of these people.
They've all testified before Congress. There was no surveillance and now they've been caught lying.
This is so sensational. And it's been reported that this dossier
was all dressed up by the FBI, taken to the FISA court and presented as a legitimate intelligence
document that it became the basis for granting a warrant to spy on Americans.
Congressman, our staffs have been having extensive interaction with both intelligence
committees on our interaction with the FISA court and I think that's the appropriate setting for
those questions. Here's what I think, Director Ray. I think Peter Strach, head of counterintelligence
at the FBI. Peter Strach, the guy who ran the Clinton investigation, did all the interviews.
Peter Strach, the guy who was running the Russian investigation at the FBI. Peter Strach,
Mr. Super Agent at the FBI, I think he's the guy who took the application to the FISA court.
And if that happened, I mean, if this happened, if you had the FBI working with a campaign,
the Democrats' campaign, taken opposition research, dressed it all up and turned it into
an intelligence document and taken it to the FISA court so they could spy on the other campaign
if that happened, that is as wrong as it gets. It's so incredible that we are at this point
and the media is desperately trying to cover it up, desperately trying to not give it any coverage
because they've all told you on late night comedy and on all the fake dinosaur media and all the
fake news that there is no spying on the campaign because it dwarfs Watergate by magnitudes. All
right, let's just call it crossfire hurricane. Great, classic Stones. Mc Jagger, you're a bad boy.
You know, Keith was the driving force behind that band, right? Well, we're just discounting
Brian Jones here. Come on, the guy could play the zither. You know, the focus here and as it was
with the intelligence community is not on the campaign per se, but what the Russians were doing
to try to instantiate themselves in the campaign or to influence or leverage it.
So if there was someone that was observing that sort of thing, well, that's a good thing.
At the end of the day, the big fat, rotting, stinking, bloated demonic whale that is the
New World Order is going down, down, down to David Jones's locker. I'm so excited. The new product
at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute
top, the real red pill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants
in it, but boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what
I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but they
were charging people a hundred, $200 for the formula. And I came up with our own formula
working with some scientists and developers non GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglin own to it, which is the precursor to all the
hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarstore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation.
Live from the info wars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show. And now your
host Anthony Cumia. Yes, welcome. Thank you again, Alex Johnson info wars for allowing me to sit here
and blather on about what's going on in the world. Oh my God, you try to keep your finger on the pulse
and you realize this whole thing is flat lining. The pulse of society is in is in a ventricular
tachycardia. It's a disaster. There are people that I don't think they have the ability to comprehend
simple, simple speech. Simple. If they read something, they're reading comprehension. I
remember that as a kid reading comprehension, you had to read things really quickly and then
take a test to see if you could comprehend because it doesn't matter how fast
information is flying into your head. If you can't disseminate it and understand it, it's useless.
But there seems to be people that just are our mental patients. Some of this stuff is so obvious.
Look, perspective, things have to be put into perspective. Let's take an example here. A lot
of people call things conspiracy theories. They say, oh, that's outrageous to even believe something
like that. That's a conspiracy theory. And a lot of these things that are labeled conspiracy theories,
they can be tossed around and have various, you can have various opinions on them and whatnot.
But in the end, there seems to be a logical explanation for certain things.
They are lumping things into the category of conspiracy theories these days that have facts
to back them up. There's no debating something. Right now, I am addressing the fact that the FBI
had operatives in the Trump campaign during the last presidential election. There were
operatives in there. Now, what their mission was seems to be up for debate. But again, I think
we could pretty much figure out what was going on. If the Obama administration was behind Hillary's
attempt to be elected president, which they were, we know that Barack Obama wanted Hillary
Clinton to be president. He campaigned for her. And his administration, his FBI, his Department
of Justice decides to put an operative at least one, perhaps two or more, into the Trump campaign.
And then here, which, by the way, is insane to even think of. This is so crazy. And believe me,
if it had been the other way around and you found out that President Bush had put people
into Obama's campaign, it just would have been, there would have been firing squads. It would
have been insane. But we're looking at this. Operatives were put into the campaign. And now
here's the excuse that I'm hearing. Well, it was for his protection. Can anyone really grasp
that? They're not even denying it at this point. They're not even denying it. They were spying
on Trump's campaign to protect Trump from these evil Russians. The Russians are obviously trying
to interfere with the election. The FBI and Obama and everybody else involved, they decide
to put operatives in the Trump campaign to protect the Trump campaign and Donald Trump
from being compromised by these horrible Russians. Oh, by the way, we didn't tell Donald Trump about
it. We didn't tell him about it. Was the same amazing courtesy and thoughtfulness
by Obama and the FBI given to Hillary Clinton? Was Hillary Clinton's campaign
were spies put in there too to protect her? Because if I was Hillary, oh, would I be so mad
that her own people, the Democratic Party, her own people wouldn't give her that amazing
courtesy and protection that they gave Donald Trump by embedding spies in his campaign.
If you think for a second that the Obama administration didn't put spies in Donald
Trump's campaign to set him up for a accusation of Russian collusion and to just keep an eye on
what he was doing and feed that information to the Hillary Clinton campaign, you're out of your
mind. You're a mental patient, you're delusional, or you know that this is going on and you're
willing to accept it. I actually have more respect for that person because at least there's a thought
process going on. At least you're thinking, well, you know what, I would have liked that Hillary
to win. And if they had a spy in there and it was, I would have hoped that would work out.
But the worst thing to think is that people are so stupid and so naive that they actually believe
when they hear that the FBI put people in Trump's campaign to protect him and help him.
I mean, honestly, it's embarrassing not to mention unbelievably corrupt and criminal.
I cannot wait because they are having a closed door security meeting with members of the Republican
Congress, and they're going over a lot of this information as to why, the why's, how's, and who's
of these people being put into Donald Trump's campaign. And I can't wait to hear from some of
these people that are in this meeting as to what happened, what happened, why. And it all boils
down to this. Again, this stuff is so obvious, who's not seeing it or who's choosing not to see it.
This all is coming to the surface because of one thing, Donald Trump winning the election.
This was never, ever supposed to see the light of day. Hillary Clinton was a shewin, a lock
to win the presidency. This monkey wrench, Donald Trump, comes winging into the machine
and screws up everything. And people are sitting there going, wait, we set him up to be in collusion
with the Russians. We're the ones that put people in his campaign to have meetings, to make it look
like he was doing this. And if push came to shove, we could then release some of this collusion
stuff and hurt him and discredit him and make him look like he was working with the Russians.
And Hillary was supposed to win, and this was never supposed to see the light of day.
Never supposed to see the light of day. Oops. Then the American people spoke, Donald Trump wins,
and now they are losing their minds. Did you see when this really started coming around about,
we've been hearing about this for a long time. No one's acknowledged it though.
But real proof of this has come out very recently. And have you noticed the change in tone
and even the people that are commenting that weren't saying a word. Donald Trump was tweeting
about the Mueller investigation. He's been very vocal about things, but you never heard
from a lot of the players involved now. And all of a sudden they're coming out of the woodwork
and starting to comment on this. Circle the wagons. They're scared because this is not going to go
away. And a political cover-up is something that rarely stays covered up. You want to talk about
Watergate and Nixon. This is insanity. What's that music? Yeah, you want to talk about Nixon
and Watergate. It's a lot worse than that. And it's the cover-up. And I believe this also goes
right to the top. Barack Hussein Obama will be brought on the carpet for this one. Be right back.
Don't go anywhere. Anthony Cooney in at infowars.com. Stay right there.
Get them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Today at ready to eat bacon.com. Ready to eat bacon.com.
Waterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients,
and even support your immune system. Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the
highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used
up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested
by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial
part of prepping. Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With Infowars Life Select's storable food,
you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals
in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy,
easy, and incredible meals. Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Infowars Life Select's
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved
ones trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with Infowars Life Select's storable foods.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show. And now your host,
Anthony Cumia. Yes, welcome. Welcome. And how you doing, everybody? I want to talk about this.
Donald Trump cancelling his summit with Kim Jong-un because he's open hostility and tremendous anger
after North Korea insults Mike Pence. Well, now, of course, you're going to get a lot of people
on the left and the usual suspects, Pelosi, Chuck E. Schumer, saying that this again,
everything Trump does is terrible. It's an abomination to man and horrible for the country.
This, of course, was supposed to be the great meeting in Singapore where
Kim Jong-un was going to promise to dismantle his nuclear arsenal and we were going to have a nuclear
free Korean Peninsula, perhaps even ending having a true end to the Korean War.
But Trump decided to cancel this after Kim Jong-un has been of late getting a little lippy.
He's getting a little lippy lately. And I think he's forgetting who he's dealing with.
This isn't Obama. This isn't George Bush, either one of them. This isn't Bill Clinton.
This isn't any of the past presidents who have appeased this regime for decades upon decades,
where the look and the perception that you were making headway with North Korea was actually
better than really doing something because that's what got votes. That's what got you the ability
to go out there and lie about your achievements you have made with North Korea. This proves,
again, that Donald Trump isn't one to just make a deal because it looks good for him.
He wants to make deals that are good for this country. Let's take a look at the Iranian deal
with the wonderful Barack Obama and his cuckold Secretary of State Kerry.
We saw a horrible deal made just so they were able to say we made a deal. That's politics. Those
are politicians, not Donald Trump. Politicians will make a deal and then say, well, we made a deal
with Iran. They won't have a nuclear arsenal. It's going to be great and we pat ourselves
on the backboard. Meanwhile, it's not a good deal. It's terrible, but they're running for office
because that's all they ever want to do is do things or make a perception that they're doing
things that will then get them votes. Donald Trump says he's going to sit down and talk with
Kim Jong-un about the nuclear problem in the peninsula and perhaps ending the war and getting
North Korea up to speed with this century. His people over there are starving. They don't have
proper medical attention. It's just a disaster over there. Here's a chance to actually get in.
He's got an opening here to get in with the rest of the world, perhaps trade with the rest of the
world and become economically viable and actually support your people. But he started mouthing off
about pens and lately he's kind of making it seem like he doesn't want us to hold any military
exercises with South Korea, which we've been doing obviously for decades. So Donald Trump decides,
you know what? No, it's off, not doing it, which now leaves the ball firmly in North Korea's court
as to what they do next. Does Kim Jong-un think that, hey, wow, I kind of blew my shot at maybe
having a little bit of interaction with the rest of the globe? And does he come back to the table
now and say, I'm sorry, or just something to get back in the good graces of Donald Trump?
But Donald Trump gets criticized for this. He's a president that's actually willing
to change his tactics, to look at something and go, well, that was okay yesterday, but because of
the events of today, now it's not good. So we're going to change that instead of a politician
which God forbid you change your take on something, even if something happens, that means you should
change your tactics on it. But they will just forge ahead like they did with that Iranian deal.
They will forge ahead just so they could say they made a deal. So I respect what Donald Trump did
in this instance, because you don't want to seem weak. And what the liberals and Democrats,
progressives, whatever, what they don't seem to understand, what they just can't grasp.
He's done this so many times. His actions that he takes to get something done are never this one
event thing. It's not like, oh, I want to do this. Bam, there it is. He does things in steps.
It's an amazing bargaining tactic that he uses and has used his whole life,
if you've read Art of the Deal. So let's say he's got five steps to get to his final goal of what
he wants done. By the first step, they're already trouncing on him about what he's doing. What did
you hear what he said? Did you hear what he wrote? Did you read what he wrote? Did you see what he
did like it's terrible? Not realizing that that's the first of four other things that he's got lined
up to get to that final end goal on something. They just don't say, and he does it time and time
again. And they just want to crap all over everything he does. He's a negotiator. He's a
businessman. He was never a politician. So what you're seeing is somebody that is the president
of the United States working the office like a business and like a businessman would. And what
are we seeing results? By the way, you've got to search for those results because you won't see it
on mainstream media, CNN, MSNBC. They will not show the results. The lowest unemployment. Overall,
the lowest unemployment unemployment out of the April numbers came out since 2000.
Minority unemployment, all time lows. ISIS decimated working on North Korea, MS-13,
border security, law enforcement support, the military building back up our military to a
respectable level, veteran care, like all of these things are the good things. And whenever I'm
asked on Twitter to bring these things up, they're ignored. And all I get is emo. I get emotion. I get
feels from people. Well, he said this. Oh, he meant that. It was very insulting. I don't care.
Trump is like an old school president, like Teddy Roosevelt. One of those guys will just
shoot from the hip. And it's refreshing that every word out of his mouth isn't some honed and
calculated sentence so that the polls will be affected properly. It's embarrassing that
you still see politicians in the light of what Trump has done because, boy, they're going to have a
hard time convincing us in that political person's speech after we've seen somebody actually speaking
to us like a human being. Be right back. Don't go anywhere. Anthony Comey at infowars.com.
Health care reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the health
care system has become a challenge. Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty
Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self pay patients who
unite with like minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs. Neighbor helping
neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org. It's a no brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes
chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria,
viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original,
most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5%
off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
InfowarsLife and InfowarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3
nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants,
known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of
toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research and
development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the
best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winter Sun,
vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory
and brain function. Something the globalists are targeting. Visit Infowars.com today or call
888-253-3139. Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide. Go ahead. Oh, Alex, you can read any
day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to
save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome Brainforce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too. Thank you. I use the Biotru Selenium,
the Super Blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The Super Blue is
awesome. And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfowarsLife products. They are quality. I can't
wait to get some more. And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy. Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on. And if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help
you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in
tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins. There's no better time to try
fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfowarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You found it. The tip of the spear. It is the Alex Jones show with Anthony Cumia.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off all your favorite products to help
celebrate Memorial Day. We're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new and old favorite
products. Now's the time to take advantage of these incredible low prices on fan favorite
supplements, gear, and more with free shipping while supporting the Infowar X2 bio true selenium.
The combo 50% off with free shipping, brain force plus 50% off free shipping, the real red pill
plus 50% off with free shipping, silver bullet 50% off free shipping, alpha power 50% off free
shipping, super male and super female vitality 50% off free shipping, DNA force plus 50% off
again free shipping, fluorolife products 50% off. Guess what free shipping InfowarsLife select one
year, six months, three month food supplies 50% off free shipping, immune wall 50% off free shipping
and pollen block 50% off. Yes, with free shipping also, of course, of course,
Infowars. I love it. We're back. Anthony Cumia in at infowars.com. Boy, you know, if you've watched
me on this very program, you know how much I love Hollywood, dadada, Hollywood lunatics,
mental patients, they are losing their minds. And on a daily basis, when I see what's going on
out there in Hollywood, I laugh my ass off. It's hilarious to watch them. I use lose their minds
a lot during my life. It was kind of, it's always been a funny thing to say like, ah,
persons lose them. Oh, my God. Oh, my dad. Oh, my God. He got so mad. I took the car. He was
losing his mind. And we use it as kind of an exaggerated thing. Quite literally, they are
losing their minds. And I couldn't be happier. I get into Twitter, little Twitter arguments with
some of the best. Oh, boy, the best of Hollywood. There's a share. Last night, I had a little
exchange with the wonderful share about Donald Trump and politics and whatnot. And then there's
Robert De Niro. Robert De Niro is now he's lost his mind so much that he is saying he's banning
Donald Trump from his restaurants. No longer will Donald Trump be able to walk in, take a seat
at one of Robert De Niro's restaurants, sit down and have a meal. Do you think Donald Trump would
want to sit in one of his restaurants and support this, this idiot? What a shame. What an amazing
career Robert De Niro has had. And now it's just been tainted by, first of all, by just horrible
movies. This is the guy we watched in the Godfather part two. And of course, good fellas and casino,
raging bull. These just amazing taxi driver, amazing films, iconic American classics. And
now he's a doddering fool. Look, look at just an amazing movie taxi driver. And then you realize,
oh, he's always an idiot. Oh, he's mentally ill. And that's what we're seeing from the Hollywood
Left. So he's saying Trump is no longer allowed in Nobu. You think that bothers Donald Trump?
Do you think Donald Trump is like, oh boy, I was just going to take Melania there tomorrow night.
I've got to make new reservations. He doesn't care. He doesn't care. And these are the guys,
like he's like, I'll punch him in the face. He's a mutt. And the first ones to want to inflict
some type of physical violence upon Donald Trump or anyone that supports him are the progressive,
inclusive, tolerant liberal left. We just saw Tommy Lernon get a water thrown on her at a restaurant
the other day, just based on nothing but her political ideology, her right as an American
to have an opinion on politics here in this country and exercise her freedom of speech
in this country. And what is it met with by the tolerance left yelling and water being thrown
at her in a public restaurant? That is the tolerant, tolerant, liberal, progressive left.
The same ones that don't allow any conservative speech on their college campuses.
Because the same left that embraces revisionist history. That's what we're talking about.
And it's all comes down to the fact that they're losing their minds. One of my favorites,
one of my favorites of all time is Rosie O'Donnell. Rosie O'Donnell is out of her mind.
The second Donald Trump called her a fat pig on national television during one of the most
viewed debates in American history. I think that might have gotten to her. And since then,
she has lost her mind. So there she is. Was that a glamour shot? I've never seen her look better.
So every day on Twitter, I've been through three Twitter accounts now. I'm on my third
Twitter account because I keep getting suspended for just speaking openly and honestly. I don't
use racial epithets. I don't use epithets against the gay community. None of that.
None of that. I get kicked off because I'm voicing my political opinion. And some people don't like
it. And I get kicked off and I have to make a new account. And I've done that. This is my third
account. So it's never good. You've got to rebuild followers and whatnot. And it's a big pain.
But the one good thing, every time I get blocked by Rosie with one of those accounts,
and I have to get a new account, I get to see Rosie's Twitter feed. And it is a joy to watch
her slowly lose her mind. You know what she's doing now in between tweeting bizarrely inaccurate
things about Donald Trump and the idea, the delusion she has of him in an orange jumpsuit
behind bars. She really thinks Donald Trump's going to prison. It's completely insane.
But she believes it. And in between these, these wandering, rambling Twitter posts,
she paints, she paints pictures of Donald Trump. They're terribly done. They, they honestly look
like like a third grade, a third graders art project. And she talks about how he's not her
president. And he stole the election. And he's a criminal. All of her wonderful paintings. Look
at this illegitimate. Look at this painting. And then you realize, I was looking at some of these
today and I go, Oh, this is what they do in mental institutions. They sit the people down.
They drug them out of their minds. And then they paint so they could just remain calm.
All right, Rosie, why don't you paint another one of your daddy? Oh, I mean, Donald Trump.
Look, look, she's out of her mind. This is every day. This is her new life. Because it has been
acknowledged by the entertainment community that she is entertainment kryptonite.
Kryptonite. She now just paints pictures like a mental patient in her home while watching her
adopted kids run away from her. That's what she now that's what her insane life consists of.
You know, take a hint from Bob Ross. That was a guy that knew how to chill,
mellow out and do some painting, not rambling Rosie O'Donnell and Jim Carrey's another one.
Like mental patients, they sit there and paint. They paint about daddy. Donald Trump,
their daddy. That's what it all boils down to. It's a daddy issue. We'll be right back. Don't
go anywhere. Anthony Covey is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily
digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20
of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help
you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in
tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try
flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to
fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an info wars life.
It takes hours. Michael ZX plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in
probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock. The real red pill,
it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural
hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and
iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can
also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more. Without
you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify
the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support. It's
made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula
that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close
to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get. You owe it to yourself,
you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that Patriots
stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of
America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you
can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time
to change our bodies with Z Shield InfoWarsLife.com. Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful
MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped
into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support
your gut health. MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural
formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's
no better product to help your body fight back. MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial
balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes unchecked. Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by
ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties. Pick up a bottle of the
new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
News, analysis, reports. It's the Alex Jones show. And now your host, Anthony Koumia.
Hi everybody, Anthony Koumia, InfoWars.com. There's so much insanity and misinformation and just
it really looks like a mess out there. And we get to see it all on video. We get to see it on
right here on InfoWars, myplacecompoundmedia.com and YouTube and LiveLeak and all these places.
You get to see videos of people with a complete lack of understanding of how to react during
encounters with law enforcement. This is something that I can never get enough of watching because
I'm amazed by it. I'm stunned. I have been around on this mortal coil for long enough to remember
when I was a young man and would get pulled over by a police officer. There was a way you acted
and that was it. And it didn't matter what color you were, how old you were, it did nothing matter.
The lights came on behind you and whatever your personality was or you went into,
cop is pulling me over mode. Ten and two made sure the seatbelt was on, got all your stuff together,
pull over, yes sir, no sir. You wanted to get through this experience as quickly as possible
with as little damage as possible. And by damage, I mean tickets, you know, that kind of damage.
There was never, never an inkling of resisting what the cop was asking you. It just didn't happen.
Well, nowadays, and I firmly blame, put most of the blame on the media and our last president,
Obama. Obama perpetuated this false narrative that the police are out there hunting young
black men, hunting them. That's what they do. They hunt them down and that they're never
going to get a fair shake and that everyone that has a young black male child has to have
a talk with them about the police and how horrible they are and all. So I watch a lot of these videos
and what I see are people with a complete lack of understanding of what they should do during a
traffic stop. Everyone becomes a car window attorney. Once that window goes down a little bit,
you put your little plaque up that you're Tyrone Smith Esquire and you're practicing law now.
Now you're practicing law out of your Toyota Celica. I don't know where this comes from.
And I have read things after you watch a video and you see people resisting lawful orders from the
police and they wind up turning something as simple as a tail light, a blinker, running a stop sign.
They parlay that into a physical altercation and an arrest. Something that could be handled in
minutes very peacefully and it gets turned into a disaster. And I watch why. I like watching and
saying, what seems to be the problem here? Well, the problem is people have been misinformed as to
what their their rights are and aren't during a traffic stop. The lately I've been noticing this
one. People race home. That seems to be it. There's this impression that it's a game and if you get
to home base, the cop isn't allowed to tag you anymore. It's done. So you'll get the police officer
trying to pull someone out of the car. I saw a video recently with this one pulling the guy
out of the car and he's like, no, I'm home. I'm home. I'm home thinking that means anything.
It doesn't. A cop can absolutely pull you out of your car right there in your driveway.
As a matter of fact, he doesn't want you running into your house because he doesn't know what you
had on you that you might get rid of. What's in the house that you might pick up or who else is
in the house that might now outnumber him out there waiting in the driveway. So a police officer
will give you a lawful order to stop either stay in your car or get out of your car. And when he
tries to put the handcuffs on you, he does not need to explain why you're being detained at that
moment. Everyone also thinks that this is an amazing thing. I say their friends must tell them this
and they take it as gospel that a police officer has to tell you why you're being arrested right
there before they put the cuffs on. Before the cop puts the cuffs on, they think he has to tell you
why you're being arrested. And if he doesn't, you have the right to resist arrest. Yeah, this
clip was a great one. This guy got pulled over in front of his house by the cop for, I believe it
was a tail light, a tail light problem. He went to get out of the car. Since he's in the driveway,
the cop ordered him to stay in the vehicle. He would not stay in the vehicle. He's yelling at
him to get back in. This is before the video takes place. The cop then assesses the situation,
looks, and then asks him to get out of the vehicle. And the comments I read were, well,
they're asking him to stay in, get out. What do they want him to do? You know what they want
him to do? Whatever the hell he's asking at that moment. And when he's asking him to get out of
the vehicle, that's when he should have gotten out of it. There's no winning, resisting the cops
when you're being pulled over. And like I said, a lot of these simple stops, they're nothing,
lead to physical altercations and arrests. Don't think you're a lawyer. Don't think you know your
rights. Don't think once you get home, you're safe. It doesn't work like that. And when the cop
gives you a lawful order, you have to obey it. If he's going to arrest you, he doesn't have to
tell you why he's arresting you at that moment. You don't have to read you your rights while he
arrests you. If he's cuffing you, it doesn't necessarily mean you're under arrest. He could
detain you at that time. These are all things they don't seem to have any concept of when you see
these videos. It's crazy. I don't know where these people got this impression. I guess Twitter, I guess
being emboldened by Barack Obama, saying that the police are out there hunting young black men and
what we've seen in Ferguson over the years and his take on that. I mean, law enforcement,
it's a tough job, man. And what we've also seen, another thing, thank God, the liberals and the
black community have begged, begged for police cameras, for body cams. Thank God this happened
because I don't know what anyone was thinking. I thought they thought they were going to catch
this amazing corruption of the police department and abuse going on and harassment. And what they're
seeing is a lot of people are full of crap about what has happened to them during the course of a
traffic stop. We've had a couple of these stories, despicable, slanderous and false, body cam video
reveals woman lied about being raped by a cop who pulled her over for Dewey and even her lawyer
now apologizes for any trouble these claims might have caused. This was an attempt to destroy
destroy a cop's life, destroy it. And the only thing that saved him was an hour, almost two hour
long body cam video that showed he did nothing but act professional during that stop and never
tried to reach under her skirt, tell her that if she had sex with him that he would let her off the
hook, all this stuff that she alleges is false. And we're seeing a lot of these. There was another
one that a woman from a TV show, can't remember which one it is, she said that her son was racially
profiled and harassed during a traffic stop. You couldn't have been nicer, the officer could not
have been nicer. Spelled out what was going on, gave the man a citation, went back to his vehicle,
traffic stop over. We're seeing a lot of these accusations coming about that are absolutely
false. And these are, this isn't something like this happens and then you could start to go fund me
or you're a pastor in a church. So you get a better bigger following, which means more money.
You're destroying a man's life. You are getting him death threats, by the way.
I guess Talcom X, what's his name? Sean King. Sean King, we call him Talcom X. He's the white guy
that says he's a black guy. He went on and put out the names of a police officer, put out the
name of a police officer that did nothing wrong. It was this false rape allegation.
And he put out the officer's name. He started getting death threats. And then it's proven false
and it just goes away. Just nothing's done about it, that they were trying to ruin a man.
And this needs to be criminal. People need to be held responsible for attempting to
destroy people's lives with these false allegations. Thank God for police body cams.
Thank God for them. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for tuning in to info wars.com. I'm
Anthony Kumi. Catch me on compoundmedia.com. See you next time here on info wars. Thanks, Alex.
And many others are calling for info wars to be shut down, taken off the web. Slate magazine has
a professor and others saying go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against info wars,
psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist. It is so critical that you go to
info wars.com, forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact
with you and so the censors can bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free,
open dialogue as a society. That is critical to this fight. We will prevail if you take action
and I know you will.
Thank you so much for tuning in to info wars.com and I'll see you next time.
Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
