Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
We're live. It is Memorial Day 2018. I was going to take off today and go fishing with my children.
I was out in the countryside at a lake in the Hill Country doing that.
But the phone calls last night and this morning, I turned my car back towards Austin and drove in the hour.
We're here. We have a big rebroadcast lined up for you, but we are live.
I have a skeleton crew of three people running the show.
We're only takes about seven. I really appreciate Wes and Daria and Kit coming in.
And of course, some of the other folks, you know, I told them also I saw Don Salazar just showed up without even being asked to.
Because the crew deserves some days off. But I told them all right before we went live, I said, you know, I really love you guys.
And they said back to me, we love you too. And it wasn't talk, it was real.
And there's no place I'd rather be than here. And I'm proud of the things I've done.
And I do it all over again, because I've done it with a true heart, with an attempt to tell the truth and we've changed the world together.
And I love this audience for putting up with me over the years, because Lord knows sometimes it's a train wreck.
But I'm trying to go in the right direction here.
You know about the massive demonization against Info Wars.
They have had conservatively, because I looked it up.
300,000 articles demonizing me just the last three years.
And that's on one subject.
They're total distortion of reality about what I said and what I've done on Sandy Hook.
Because they intended to destroy me with that before they had me physically killed.
And I know that's the program. That's 300,000 articles just on that.
Every TV station, every radio station, thousands of articles, tens of thousands this last week.
That is the level of propaganda you put out before you invade an innocent country.
And it's not because I'm that important. It's because I've been chosen as domino number one for total destruction to then bring down the entire free press in this country.
And that's now admitted by the Wall Street Journal three months ago, saying they're now going into high gear with their Disney merger.
And that the conservative leadership has met with the liberal leadership at the globalist level and decided to destroy the free press in this country and destroy Donald Trump.
Now, that said, let me just boil down the news that's coming up the next hour.
It was six people that were contacted two weeks ago we knew of. It was eight on Monday. It's 13 now.
And the FBI is telling them you better tell us Alex Jones is a Russian.
You better tell us he's the mastermind getting direct orders from Trump and Roger Stone.
And people are like, I don't even know Alex Jones.
Most people don't even know me, never been on the show.
Michael Caputo came on on obviously on Monday and was the only one that was willing to talk about it.
And other persons coming on today is willing to talk about it. We'll tell you about that after the break.
This ties into the whole Tommy Robinson situation. We got big developments on that front.
But the latest one is it's now two prong.
They're just moving into collusion that we're against Hillary and the Democrats and there was a conspiracy in the election against her.
And these FBI agents know it's all a fraud. They've just been told to create this narrative.
Now I'm not even scared of being arrested or set up. This is their death row politically.
But it shows how dangerous they are and how psychotic and how out of control this breakaway state is.
This rogue government. So this country's no thick of it.
But even Lewis Farrakhan has come out and supported the president.
We're going to play that clip and talk about why it's so critical.
And so much more. We're going to connect all the dots.
This is undoubtedly probably the most important broadcast ever.
I say that now every few months. But this is it. These things are getting more serious as we go along.
We are live. However you're watching, tell folks to tune in and spread those links.
It's an info war.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the real Red Pill Plus.
The real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful Pregnant alone formula.
Now with an added energy boost. Now you can support your heart, brain and aging process with an added natural energy boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate leaf extract and more.
Paired with the powerful ingredients in the original real Red Pill formula.
The real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick me up to get you through the day.
The real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body.
Don't miss out on the all new upgrade to your favorite product.
Head to infowarstore.com and get the real Red Pill Plus today.
Get real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
It has been said that incredible times, perilous times, dangerous times, tumultuous times are what make men.
Many historians have made that point that it's not so much even the individual, but it's the circumstances that make them great when they make the right decision.
And I am quite frankly very, very proud at a fundamental level, not in a worldly, proudly way, but just proud that I've at least stood up to the tyrants,
been effective against them and stood up to their attacks and quite frankly that they've opened up such mega massive attacks against us, the free press, really only illustrates how right I was 23 years ago when I first got on air.
And the fact that quite frankly, the only way I was wrong was not realizing just how evil our adversaries were, that the places I was incorrect was underestimating just how bad the rot was, just how vicious they are.
I've started seeing bumper stickers all over Austin, I even shot some video yesterday of middle class looking white people.
It's white people. I've seen eight different cars. I've got video twice with a pentagram saying hashtag resist hashtag in a local resistance group.
So they're they're decloaking right now.
Communist marches all over devil worshipers coming out of the woodwork. I mean, boom pentagram, resist, take out Trump, take out Jones, take us out.
They are uncloaking. Hundreds of thousands of Irish liberals got on airplanes to fly back who were expats, but hadn't get up to citizenship to vote to kill babies.
This is a sacrament and a religion of these people. The demonic evil is spreading. Let me give you the big announcements.
It's now 12 people.
Well, Caputo, you know, well known all over national news. He came on Monday and said the FBI was particularly targeting in force.
We've now talked to others and they have specifically said that we know Jones is the mastermind with Roger Stone running the entire conspiracy with which he leaks in the election.
And these people are like army officers, lawyers, campaign people, car drivers that have never even met me or know me.
And the FBI is like, we're going to get you if you don't say Jones is the mastermind. I mean, I can't believe the government's even that criminal myself.
And I talked to an army officer who's going to be coming on next segment and they said, we know you go to Austin. We know you're in the room with Jones.
When you make those calls, we know you're cooked all this up. We, you know, we understand blah, blah, blah. This is reach the next level.
So just like Tommy Robinson came on here a few months ago and he said, my time's limited. They're getting ready to put me in prison.
They've told me they're going to kill me in prison. He's in prison. The judge ordered it be secret.
There are demonstrations from Australia to Germany. I hear some are coming today here in the U.S.
Activist journalists had exposed massive pedophile rings, simply went out and reported that there was a grooming trial going on.
And so now he's disappeared. Here's what Katie Hopkins had to say.
Lest we forget in this particular trial, 29 accused, 170 charges, 18 girls, one just 11 years old.
Where was swift justice when our girls lay bleeding? That's just one mass gang rape in case where it turns out the police and government have been documented as protecting it for years.
Tommy was the first person to expose this. Then Katie Hopkins, she had to basically leave the country over it.
They'll arrest you for even reporting this. And even Fox is reported.
It is illegal to report that there's even a trial. And it's illegal to say Tommy Robinson has even disappeared.
This all ties in. And we had the exclusive yesterday with his manager, the guy that's really helped take Tommy to the next level with equipment, editing, all of it.
Mr. Robert's son, not Robinson, Mr. Robertson, he's to give us an update today or tomorrow. We have more exclusive intel on that coming up of him in prison.
He has not been attacked yet. They have put him in an area where he is not in solitary confinement, but he is in the corner of the prison and is basically being protected.
Well, of course, they know if he gets killed now, like they tried the last few times, they put him in prison where they beat him almost half to death and try to throw bleach on him.
You know, the asset attack, all of that he survived. Now they got him in an area where he won't get killed because that would really blow up in their face.
Thousands and thousands and thousands march, climb the gates at 10 downing all over the place. The media had some reports, then that got delisted.
It's called delisted.
To denotice, means delisted, for national security. It's not even a court order now. It's national security to protect the pedophiles because they deny this was happening and now it's all breaking.
But the Islamic groups are protected in some of their cultures, not all Islamic culture, but some of the Pakistan, some of the North Africa.
They sell people into slavery. North Africa is selling folks into slavery right now.
Women are being sold in cages. Black people are being sold in cages again because we learned the slave trade from certain Arab slave traders 500 years ago, the transatlantic slave trade.
So they got a big problem. The left does because Hillary helped do all this. Now it's unfolding and now folks are understanding what's happening.
So all this is going to tie together when we come back from break.
Lewis Faircott knows what's going on. Rand Paul's in on the loop. Lewis Faircott invited me to his home two years ago.
He told me, he said, I like Trump overall. I believe he means change. I believe he's an anomaly. I believe the establishment is out to get him.
And he said, but then he even said some of that on tape. No media coverage because it didn't fit the narrative.
Well, I saw the information Saturday, tweeted it out, it's been picked up, right? Bart Rudd's reports picked it up.
Lewis Faircott gave him a backhanded compliment so they won't be destroyed like Kanye or like they attempted, admitting that he's really helping black people and the average American.
Because that's where this is going. And if Farrakhan flips on the left and the rest of the folks follow Kanye's example, the globalists are done.
Because just like they use the Islamic vote as a block for socialism and globalism in Europe, even 10% Islam wins all the elections because it throws it to whatever party sides with them.
The black votes 90 plus percent historically for the Democrats, they lose that. They lose every election. The whole country goes red.
And Farrakhan knows the truth. I've had three hour discussions with him and the leadership of the nation of Islam.
And they wanted to keep talking. I wasn't rude. I'd been up since five in the morning and it was like 11 at night. I said, sir, I've got to go.
And then he is about to be back up and I've just been under such globalist attack. I haven't been able to even leave Austin.
I do want to be with Farrakhan because they cut out a context. What he says, I don't endorse all of it, but the guy really is smart. I mean, he's mega smart, incredibly eloquent.
And I think in his age has really like wine has gotten better. And I didn't say much when he was talking because the guy knows what he's talking about. Historically, you name it, that he is an anomaly.
And so he gets Trump as an anomaly. And when Lewis Farrakhan comes out and starts endorsing Trump, we're going to play that clip coming up. You know its seismic change.
So you've got globalists trying to stop the Korean peace deal. That's coming back like we said it would. We've got everything happening right now.
You've got people being arrested for exposing pedophile rings because these Islamic groups are delivering it to the British aristocracy.
They just create the holding cells basically. They create the reservoirs, the stables. The Islamic term would be the harems of the little kids.
And then the British aristocracy are the ones having sex with them. And that's now broke the last month. That's why the British government said no more.
They are shutting it all down. So we're not just attacking Islam here. It's evil groups hunger for this throughout history to corrupt people. It's a form of Satanism to destroy the youth.
Abortion is a form of Satanism. It's all about killing the life force, stealing it, snuffing out a future. This is the true Aleister Crowley crap we face.
You look at John Podesta, these top Democrats, Jay-Z, they all on record practice, Crowley and magic. We are fighting devil worshipers.
I told you about the Nexium cult and Obama and all of them, six months before it broke.
Nothing post said how dare Jones claim top Democrats are torturing women and branding them in cults. I knew all about it. I didn't want to be the first and get sued.
I know a lot more. That's why they're scared. And the man joining us on the other side, an army officer, who soon will reveal his identity, has been visited and basically raided by the FBI.
The FBI is raiding people, grabbing their phones, grabbing their computers and saying, you're going to say Alex Jones and Roger Stone are the masterminds for Trump. It's incredible.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad. Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work, and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon. Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With infowarstore's life-selects storable food,
you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals,
including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Infowarstore's life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need
for an affordable price with Infowarstore's life-selects storable foods.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
All across the world on this Memorial Day weekend,
people are battling authoritarian, leftist governments that are arresting them
for even saying they don't want open borders to radical Islam.
Tommy Robinson, who 11 years ago first exposed massive child kidnapping sex rings
that were going on right next door to his tanning salon,
has spent years in prison, been tortured, attacked.
He's back in jail for covering, just saying a trial was happening.
Lest we forget, 29 accused, 170 charges, 18 girls, one just 11 years old.
Where was Swift Justice when our girls lay bleeding?
A judge has ordered no coverage of it.
In the UK, hundreds of articles, BBC, Sky Television, that's Fox, removed it.
Unbelievable.
And then Tommy Robinson, incredible courage.
He said, privately in on there, he said, anytime I'm scared even though I have kids,
he really took my house, everything from me.
He said, I think about those little kids crying when I would see the men putting them in cars
with other men to be taken away to be raped.
Every time he saw them, he sat there for a year.
So he started physically fighting them and calling the police demanding,
look, they're loading children in cars.
He went and found their parents, they were all poor white people.
And they said, we're, they'll take our kids if we stop them.
The CPS will.
You imagine a movie like that and all of it's come out.
All of it's been documented.
Tommy wasn't a hero.
He's not even a big guy.
It's like five eight, but he kicks the butt of like six, seven, eight anti for guys at one time
because he's got right on his side when they physically attack him.
And now he's in a prison and people are angry and they're protesting all over the western world
because finally the straw has broken the camel's back.
And the pedophile rings that run the British government, the Vatican, all of it.
It's all coming out.
The deputy published being tried for pedophilia right now.
A hundred plus traffic children, just like we see here.
Just like this case.
This is the cult we're facing and it's going down and it's scared.
So I'm honored to be sued by Hillary and the globalists and all the lies.
I'm honored to have 300,000 plus articles against me the last two and a half years.
I'm honored to have them because I know they're the bad guys and I'm standing against them.
That said, I have now talked to four or five of the 13 people that the FBI has in some cases
raided their offices, grabbed them off airplanes, grabbed them out of a parking lot.
And they're about to go out on a boat to go fishing after day and Sarasota, Florida,
about to talk to that man for the rest of the hour than Roger Stone's joining us saying,
Oh, you're a mastermind.
Alex Jones is with Roger Stone.
You're all coordinating with each other.
Even though I've never had Zach here, Zach's been calling in for a year and a half.
When he laid out stuff that I got from the hostage rescue team about the Islamists
and the three women in the hotel room and all the rest of it.
It's now confirmed.
There were at least the police reports yesterday.
Laura Loomer reported on it for dangerous.com.
When he started saying stuff that I was told not to even say on air,
but my sources, I only gave out part of it.
I knew he was for real.
Then he said, yeah, I'm for real.
Here's my real name.
Army officer, been in the news for six, seven, eight years.
People figured out who he was on DSQ, Deep State Q.
So they've added him, but tried to twist it.
The FBI has already gotten him twice before threatening not to come on.
He got his lawyers yesterday.
Lawyers came in.
He's a prominent guy.
And look, he's not supposed to say anything because they say, oh, you're non-disclosure as this persona
that you were involved in and psyops for the U.S. military domestically.
Well, he's not getting into those psyops.
It doesn't get into it with me.
I don't know how all that works.
He's doing this because we're down to the wire as a citizen.
He's now been grabbed by the FBI to then be threatened to lie about me.
He got in their face.
So he's going to lay it all out for you right now.
But I want to spend a few minutes before we do in the next two segments,
Zach commending your courage, appreciate what you're doing,
coming up against the Deep State, everybody else.
And soon you'll reveal your full name that they already know,
the Globalist Office already know, they're already after you everywhere.
Just into the climate we're in, Farrakhan basically coming out and endorsing Trump in a backhanded move.
He told me personally he knew the truth but didn't know how to broach it to people.
I had dinner with him, hung out with him all day.
I mean, I already broke that years ago.
We have the video, but no one will cover it because it doesn't fit the narrative.
Rand Paul, all of this.
Trump's for real.
He's a pragmatist.
He's not out to get America.
We got a few minutes to break, but just how big is the historic moment we're at?
As you told me this morning, you're dead right.
All the crimes of the Deep State, the criminal cabal that's been in control,
they're fighting for their lives right now and it's getting crazy.
Because again, 13 people raided by the FBI in association with Info Wars.
Info Wars being one of the main topics.
And Zach, other than Mike Caputo came on Monday,
is the only person that has the will to come on.
I'm in the others, but Zach, we appreciate you.
Go ahead.
Could we imagine a world where Lewis Farrakhan and Allie Jones provide reason?
How could that be?
How could that be?
Because we're dealing with an FBI in the DOJ that is so raw, that is so out of control.
The same DOJ and FBI that pulled me off the boat that questioned me for four hours.
And put Alex Jones at the center of the questioning.
How could that be?
Alex, you know you're not a mastermind.
You know you're not doing anything, but in their own world, it's Alex Jones
at the center of the entire cabal.
It's Alex Jones that reached out and talked to Roger Stone.
It's Alex Jones who won the election.
It's Alex Jones who talked to Zach.
It's Alex Jones who made everything happen.
How dare you?
How dare you?
And how dare you?
And I'm talking to the FBI agents right now who I talked to.
If you want me, if you really want me, and we're in a fist fight, I'll slap you in the mouth.
And if you're ready to put shots down range, let's get it.
Because I'm not having it.
It's so problematic.
Are we going to sit here and act like Libya didn't happen?
9-11 didn't happen.
Vegas didn't happen.
You picked the wrong one.
The conspiracy crescendo has erupted.
Period.
And now it's on our shoulders.
9-11, Vegas, Libya.
And I'm pausing on purpose.
It has to come to fruition.
And I will prove it.
And if you're trying to out me, we'll see how it works.
Period.
Well, we'll get into much as you can with the FBI, not as your position working in the government.
I'll tire it up. I'm sorry.
No, I understand.
We're not going to get into your position in the government.
Anything classified.
We're just going to get into what the FBI is doing, what they're saying.
And it's not the FBI.
This is the rogue, as you said, criminal elements that are mad dog out of control.
The left chose me to demonize Trump during the election, elevated me to a higher level.
They now believe their own BS and think that I and Roger Stone, they're not sure who, run everything.
When I talk to Trump, he just says, good job, Alex.
Let me tell your wife how great she is.
It's ridiculous.
Trump is running the operation.
Top generals are involved.
You mean to list their names? You moron FBI agents?
It's not General Flynn.
He was sent in on a mission by the former head of the National Security Council, by others.
We'll be right back. Stay with us.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them the library, to give them the courage to get them right now at KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
InfoWare, SuperMail and Superfemale Vitality 50% off with free shipping.
X2, BioTrue Selenium Combo 50% off with free shipping.
Brainforce Plus, Alpha Power, The Real Red Pill Plus, DNA Force Plus, Flora Life Products, Immune Wall, Pollen Black.
InfoWare's life selects storeable foods one year, six month and three month food supply 50% off with free shipping.
Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access to exclusive store-wide deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom.
The best selling product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWare so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWarslife Daily Digestive Pack today.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
So let me tell the FBI since you've been rating 13 people and bringing up myself, Roger Stone, people like Zach who you know who he is.
We're not part of a conspiracy like you through the Justice Department, through Strach, through McCabe, through Comey, through the Clintons.
We're people that read and research and know, or folks like Zach that were in Libya and saw Hillary when Gaddafi was begging to surrender for weeks before the attack, weeks during the attack and watching black people be put in cages and sold.
It's people like Tosh Plumley, CIA contractor, flying guns in to Al Qaeda coming on this show, having to relocate to South America because they tried to kill him.
That really happened. It's Colonel Shaffer coming on this show and having them threaten to put him in prison if he came back on and talked about Benghazi.
He came on week one and said everything about it. Former head of the anti-Al Qaeda operations for the Army.
This is the real world. And Zach's just like one of those Colonel Shaffers, but under his contract, he's not supposed to tell you his full name and who he is because he's been used in PR operations in the Middle East and for penetration of Islamic groups and takeover of Islamic groups.
It was Zach who, now we learn, got us in touch with Lewis Farrakhan. Well, Farrakhan wanted to meet with me two years ago.
So that's why they're so upset about this. And Zach's a little freaked out today because the FBI and they've really been threatening him and things. He's not going to bow down to that stuff.
But this is what's really going on behind the scenes, okay? And this is just normal people deciding, journalists, citizens, myself, Senator Paul knows what's going on, that we're not going to be part of this.
We're done with the real deep state that states Tonkin, Kennedy's killing, 9-11, Benghazi funding radical Islam to take over regular Islamic countries and progressive Islamic countries and kill everybody.
Really? Our own military said no. Trump has said no. We're taking the country back. So now the globalist worldwide are panicking. Now they are openly telling Zach, we don't want to hear about Russia stuff.
What about pure collusion in the campaign against our progressivism? And how did Roger Stone turn Alex from being a progressive?
I guess they thought because I didn't like Bush to being this evil person. These people are crazy. They built me up as the mastermind during the campaign to hurt Trump when I'm not the mastermind.
I mean, I've had a big effect on Aaron that done a lot of stuff rebranding Americana, but I wouldn't say I'm the quarterback. Let's say I'm a star wide receiver.
Trump is the coach and the owner of the team, the American people, the owner of the team. Zach, I'm the stop ranting. You've got the floor of this segment, the next, the next.
So just get into it, whatever you want to say. I know you're nervous. Lay out the big picture for folks. Go ahead.
Could you imagine? Could you imagine that they're implying that the narrative of the entire country is waged from off in Texas? How could that be? Is that the case?
Well, as you said this morning, it's not true. They know it's a fake narrative. That's what they're going to go with.
Well, hold on. FBI agents are asking me questioning like that is the case. How could that be?
Well, you told, I mean, just go ahead and lay it out, whatever you can say.
Could you imagine FBI agent implying that Alex Jones, Roger Stone, Donald J. Trump have took over America? Is that what's going on? I don't think so.
And even my explanation to counter them seems so ridiculous because it is ridiculous. I will not appease them. I will not stop. If you want to come find me, we'll figure it out.
It's bullshit. It's bullshit.
We got to delay that.
I understand you're upset, Zach. I never heard you this upset, but just like we were talking this morning because I'm even up all night.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're right. I'm sorry.
But you seem really tired now. We talked three in the morning, talked to seven in the morning. You've been up really upset.
They had me for 17 hours.
Well, let's just roll through it all then. Let's just talk about exactly where you see this going, what you said about Farrakhan, Rand Paul, all that I know is going on behind the scenes.
Just explain to people where the fight is. What Kanye did, like what he said, it's a bigger plan than the globalist plan of suppressors. Kanye's been let in on it. As you know, I've confirmed they had a reality show type deal together.
They pledged to do this all along. This is a big deal.
Alex, I'm sorry for cursing, but it's real.
I understand.
And yeah, I did perpetuate the Farrakhan interview. Everyone knows who I am. If you don't know who I am, then it is what it is. But Farrakhan happened. We're talking.
Kanye happened. I know Elon. That's happening. And other things are happening.
By the way, you said three weeks ago on the phone, you said Elon's about to go after the press next. He's come out and said they're fakes. They're liars. They're scammers. They're the fake news. There used to be a citizens rating group against them. I mean, absolutely on target.
If I'm wrong, call me out.
But let's walk through what you can say about what the FBI said and big picture. Something isn't classified. Something isn't secret about the Civil War going on behind the scenes.
You want it?
Well, you were saying, you were saying, you know, I mean, basically the FBI guys had a big argument with them.
Alex, Alex, Alex, this is like, this is a very, very heavy pressure. And here's the thing. They believe that you, myself, Roger Stone have orchestrated a coup against whatever is the sitting government of the United States of America.
That's not true. I never talked to you. You never talked to Roger. I know Roger. I know you, but we never conspired. That's not true. That's not true. And what they're attempting to do is tie us all together based upon our words.
That's problematic.
And you said they were playing hours of clips of me and Roger. You've been on the same show with him one time because you've been proven to be a good analyst, good source as a private citizen, saying what you think, never getting anything classified.
You really got my attention with the Vegas stuff because you put out stuff that I've been told not to put out by real FBI sources on the hostage rescue team. So the whole FBI isn't bad.
It's the special unit. So that's what you were getting into was you told me this morning, the FBI knew it was fake. They've just been told, put the narrative out and that they're closing in and that it's going to be Roger Stone and Alex Jones.
And I guess they'll try to throw you in with a new thing, but it's not Russians. But there was this rogue group that did a coup against Hillary, as if the voters were the coup against Hillary.
So I mean, tell me what you said this morning.
But at the pinnacle is Alex Jones and info wars and the listeners. Why are they like, why are they not allowing you to make revenue on YouTube? How could that be? How could that be?
And the real question becomes, what is fake news? What does that word mean? Who is Roger Stone? Who is Alex Jones? Who is Zach?
And I left my last game. They're going for your neck. Alex, I'm telling you, they are coming for you. They're coming for Roger. They're coming for me.
I have a good legal team. I happen to have money. I happen to have a passport. So it is what it is. But make no mistake. They are coming for us.
This is not a joke. They are coming. No, I know. I'm proud of it now. Listen, you're a soldier. You're a tough guy. I've been through a lot of combat and stuff.
But let me tell you, we're fighting a bunch of pedophiles. So I mean, you ought to feel good. We got to take our licks for these kids. Let's do it.
How do you even bring up the Eric Prince shit?
Hit the lay on that again. I know you're upset, Zach, and I've never heard you like this. I know you're freaked out. What do you say, bring up what?
Oh, I'm sorry. Well, I know the FBI interrogating you and threatening you guys. You upset everything. And I understand your family is really mad at you right now, too.
And when it comes out who you are, people know why that is. But you got a lot of courage. You ought to feel good about this.
Alex, and you know how big you are in this?
Well, I don't want to be big. I just want to fight the globalists and bring them down. So.
I know it's weird that they haven't questioned you. They questioned Roger. They questioned me. How come Alex Jones is not the FBI?
Well, just because they want to get all their BS straight and then come in with the final story.
How could that be that Alex Jones is not being questioned?
Because they're going to t-bone me in an intersection the day they indict me. That's why.
That's how I feel. I'm ready to die.
It's not a big deal, man. It's better dying now than when you're really old. A bunch of tubes up your flight. We'll be right back. Stay with us. I'm not worried about it.
I'm Americana to the end, and that's the way it is, just like Tommy Robinson is Britannic.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfoWars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfoWarsStore.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping. Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, home style potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life selects storable foods.
Years ago, InfoWars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alright, it's Memorial Day.
Zach has probably been a caller for a year and a half when I heard him say stuff that I knew was absolutely secret that nobody had repeatedly. I checked him out. He said, yeah, here's who I am. Checked out his background. He's been on TV, been in the media, been using PsyOps at a lot of levels, families well to do over in the Mediterranean.
And so I said, okay, tell me more stuff. He never told me anything secret because they're listening to the phones. This morning they were doing dial tones, hanging up.
I was doing a live feed earlier. My phone had plenty of power. They cut that live feed off. I mean, they're watching us. Hell, I had Michael Caputo on from the Trump campaign.
He said, no, about, you know, a lot of the time they talked, it was all about you and are you a mastermind and what do you do and blah, blah, blah. The FBI.
So I talked to other people. Well, now Zach hadn't slept all night. The FBI had him much yesterday. I talked to him four or five hours ago.
He was really coach and he seems a little, little frazzled right now. And he during the break was like, well, yeah, because America is show evil and run by such bad people now.
And he's a little freaked out by the threats they made on him. He won't even tell me what those threats are. The FBI said he almost got in a fist fight with them, the things they were saying and doing because it was so crazy to hear that I'm the mastermind.
Roger Stone is the mastermind. You know, we're going to get it. He's going to admit we're criminals or he's going to go jail. All this stuff because he knows it's not true.
He's been doing this moment like I had family that was in Vietnam and they were in Guatemala. And there was this moment at the orphanage when they found out they were trafficking kids out for pedophiles.
And that was the moment that this family member I had back in the 70s and the 80s said, I'm not part of this. And they blew him and his partner up and all this other stuff.
He lived, but I mean, I already know. I already know it's dangerous. I already know it's real. I already know what's going on at the bottom of the rabbit hole. I already get it. I want that spider.
I'm ready to die for it. Let's get in there. So I get the fact exactly how many sleep in you. It's Memorial Day. You might have a few Budweisers, but just finish up your point of why you're subset, what you can say, what you can't say.
Because I know, you know, they say you're not supposed to talk because what you do in Psyops. This isn't Psyops. This is you, a citizen, a patriot, a guy that was in Libya, all these other places that saw what you weren't supposed to see.
We already know all about it. We already got it from Plumlee and Colonel Shaffer and everybody else. We already know everything. The public knows the decision has been made to move on from that.
The point is, is that what is it that's got you at this point in time, the fair con thing, the must thing, all of it. You've been dead on what you've said on here. So what else do you want to add?
Yeah, so Alex Jones and Roger Stone have concocted the complete downfall of America. I don't think so. I don't think so.
So tell me what you were saying this morning. You were very fluent. You let it all out. I mean, tell me what got you so upset while they were telling you this stuff. I mean, break it down.
When I was questioned by the FBI, they announced or questioned my association with you. And they said, so you and Alex Jones, like for sure, like it's orchestrated, right?
Like you, Roger, everything like Roger knows Trump. Alex knows me. I know me. No. They believe in true fruition that Roger Stone is running the Trump campaign that Alex Jones is talking to Zach and Zach is running in for wars.
Here's the shit kicker. Excuse me. I'm sorry to lay that one more time, Zach, please. Go ahead, Zach. Here's the problem. Here's the problem. Alex, we've never talked. We're not we're not connected.
I've never been to Austin. We've never to be specific when you laid out that Vegas stuff that I was asked not to add to it. I knew you weren't be asking.
And he said, OK, here's who I am. I looked you up and you were in the newspaper. And then we've talked, I don't know, maybe, maybe seven, eight, nine times where you're like, should I do this documentary? Should I get out of the military?
And I'm like, dude, do whatever you want.
The same Netflix that Barack Obama and Michelle. Oh, just got a contract deal, by the way.
Yeah. So that's the discussion, what you should do with your career. And I told you, make that a decision. So just so it's on the record, though, why this upset you to be accused of being a trader when you're not. I mean, just because criminals that have hijacked the government.
Oh, oh, they accuse me of being a trader. And I promise you, I'm not.
But just because there's criminals in the government, don't take that like you've had your character besmirched and freak out by that. This is a come to Jesus moment where you realize just how bad it is.
Alex, Alex, this. So like this show right now, like we're working it out on air. And it's not easy. It's not like we could like just have like a workshop and say, hey, you should say this or you should say that.
It's difficult.
Oh, I know. You said they accused you of like, about a month ago, being here and it was all being staged. No.
Yeah, 100%. They said, oh, you're in the other room with Alex. I said, no, I've never met Alex. I've talked to him on the phone. They said, no, you're in the other room with him. And you like he has a narrative for you.
I said, no, that never happened to see their all followers. They get the narrative.
And that's what you believe that stupidity. Do you believe that? But you made great points about organic. We all know the truth. I mean, I've had, I've had, I've had, I've had.
Tonto Peranto on the hero Benghazi. He's a great guy. He loves the show. He told us what went on. What's our sources? The guys on the ground, the guys at sitcom. I mean, it's not Zach, even though Zach's been in sitcom.
Don't you get it? We're all pissed off, man. We all know it went on, but there's such followers. They can't believe we all think alike.
Listen, maybe, maybe I'm not as elegant. Like, I'm not as elegant as I usually am because I'm stressed out because of this.
I understand, brother. It's really been up all night.
What I'm saying is so problematic and so perpetuated that I don't know how to say it.
Now, I know you're sitting on top all the stuff, you know, we don't want the classified stuff. We already know all this to everything that's going on.
The big issue here is we get the whole global agenda. You can, you can have propaganda, but you also have movements and you have signs and we get the agenda.
We know, we know where the new order is going better than their top people because we're not followers like them. That said, you've done a great job.
You've exposed a lot. The fair con thing is out. How big is that? That he has this backhanded thing where he knows he's got to come out.
Well, the thing is, how did you, how did you reach out to him? How did it happen?
And my question is, fair con would say it, you would say it, everyone would say it. How was the connection made?
Well, I mean, you've shown you a lot of good connections because I've talked to some of them about you talking to them separately.
I don't mean to be.
No, no, I understand. I understand that it was, it was, it was very stopped to me.
I'm trying. I'm trying. I'm trying to save this country. I'm sorry. I'm sorry that all these things are going on.
I don't want pedophiles to run our country. So period. If you have a problem with me, combine me, I'm not going to stop.
I'm not going to stop talking to Alex Jones. Period.
All right, Zach, what you need to do is relax, get some sleep. Let's get you back on tomorrow to break this down.
We really appreciate you. Roger Stone's coming up. Okay. You've done a good job. I'm sorry they threatened you.
Pulled you off that boat, all the rest of it when you were trying to go out and fishing.
But you told me a lot of interesting things about what they said and thank you for giving us that picture.
We already knew from Michael Caputo was on Monday, you know, seven days ago, six days ago.
We already know they're honing in on me and Roger Stone. That's their plan. It's totally insane.
You are the epicenter.
But it shows how empty they are.
You are the epicenter.
And there's no Russia gate. There's no nothing. And so this is all they got.
There's nothing. There's nothing. There's Trump and Alex Jones. Period.
That's really silly. God bless you. We're going to talk soon.
The truth is there's the American people and there's Matt Drudge and there's WorldNet Daily and there's the Daily Caller.
And there's all these groups and all these organizations and Turning Point and Candice Owens and Kanye West.
They've decided because I've said so much and done so much, they can demonize me and they've got more material to make me look crazy.
It's not that I'm that good. It's that I'm that real.
They've decided to choose me as the albatross to hang around Trump's neck.
And they think with enough demonization in the last few years, enough lies, enough edited tapes that when they hang around my neck, everybody will buy it and desert me.
I'm not worried about it because I took on the globals for the children, not because I'm a hero, but because just like Tommy Robinson,
watching them for a year, traffic kids in front of his tanning salon, little girls crying, 7, 8, 9, 10 years old being shoved into cars with men by Muslims.
But it was Brits and others coming to get the kids. They're all involved.
Don't just blame the Muslims. He had to start physically beating their asses and got put in prison for it.
I beat their ass the first time. I'm just telling you, but that's what he sat there and had to watch.
He's a hero because he's still a man. He's not a demon. He knows when he sees evil, he's going to fight.
So he's in a secret prison and the government's ordered no reporting on it.
And Zach this morning was not as exhausted as he is. He's been up all night. He was calling me at 3 a.m.
He's really exhausted and freaked out because of all the stuff he knows, the horrible things he saw in Libya.
And all the classified stuff he knows about putting the women in cages and all the stuff Hillary and Soros are up to.
He's scared for his family, for everybody just because it freaks him out as a person what's happening.
You can hear the threats they made yesterday are horrible, but this is what it is. This is where we've come to.
Roger Stone's coming up. We've got incredible information, but 13 people have been raided.
The focus is info wars. Our enemies are celebrating.
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down over the UK.
They're set to pass rules, not a law, that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison.
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK.
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down, taken off the web.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalists.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you.
And so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
To help celebrate Memorial Day, we're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new and old favorite products.
Now's the time to take advantage of these incredibly low prices of fan favorite supplements, gear and more with free shipping while supporting the info war.
Super male and super female vitality, 50% off with free shipping.
X2 bio true selenium combo, 50% off with free shipping.
Brainforce plus, alpha power, the real red pill plus, DNA force plus, floor life products, immune wall, pollen block, info wars life select storeable foods one year, six month and three month food supply, 50% off with free shipping.
Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access to exclusive store wide deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Government cover ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he live from the info wars.com studios. It's Alex Jones.
You know, some people drink to take courage before a fight.
I drink because I've got too much fight. I have a temperate rock tower people around me apart.
But I've stopped that as much as I can as well.
A lot of wires got crossed today because I only had three crew members that could come in on emergency calls to this live broadcast.
We had a great rebroadcast lined up for his memorial day. We're live at 12 noon central 1pm Eastern.
Roger Stone thought he was on at 11 30 central. So he's not responding now.
He thought we've made him sit there on hold for 30 minutes. That wasn't the case because he gave me the big download on Mueller does plan to frame him.
The focus has changed to Alex Jones and Roger Stone.
And just American collusion.
So I guess us being anti Hillary is a crime.
That's what they were telling Zach. Zach was like lining up exactly what Roger had told me Saturday.
And Sunday off air.
That's why I know Zach's credible. Plus he's been in the news. Folks know he is. And you know, Zach's under a lot of pressure. He's been up all night.
And I understand that. I just you've heard him many times. You heard off study was, you know, he's a real person.
He's not like DSQ deep state Q that is a fabrication and of course has the media loving it and promoting it and pushing it.
I'm Alex Jones. I've been around 23 years. I said Trump would win. I said, you know, cell phones were giving you brain tumors.
I said, GMO was killing you. It's all admitted. I'm just a fan of humanity. You're telling the truth.
Moving forward. And I'm so far down this thing now.
I've already worked through every possible permutation of what they can do to me. And I just accept it because somebody's got to stand up to them if humanity has a future.
It's not a heroic action. It is a self preservation action.
Tommy Robinson is in prison. One hour after he was arrested and the judge orders no one to cover it.
And there's photos of the judge smirking like the Joker. That archetypal image of delusional tyranny is all we need.
You know, tyranny and the corruption tends to take over when people get large ass and decadent.
But once they get in total power, then they start flaunting it and they find that the sleeping giant was sleeping, not intimidated.
So that's the news on that front. There's no where I'd rather be on Memorial Day than right here on air and live with you.
I did the whole last hour didn't even plug, you know, they're trying to shut us down when you financially support us and get great products at the same time.
It's all possible. So I salute you and I thank you.
A lot of people have been pre-programmed by the media and everything that when the U.S. government comes and tells you you're a bad person, you're supposed to ball up in the corner and piss yourself.
You know, the same U.S. government lets illegal aliens shoot women in the back and lets them go.
Let's jihadist murder people in mass and covers it up. So this isn't our government. This is a parasitic overlay, a face-sucking system we're trying to remove.
And it's going to be a bloody process, but we're not going to have a future if we don't do it.
So I'm not just going to hide myself off forever and hope it passes me over so I can physically eat steaks and act powerful and strut around.
I want to be part of the real zest that made humanity, the real zest that led us to this point and can lead us to the next point.
I know there's a real stairway to heaven, but it's paved with taking action and will and historical research and understanding and total commitment.
And if you just totally commit, then there's no more fear.
But I know soldiers, I know people that have been leaders, multiple leaders, Navy SEAL, SEAL Team 6, Delta Force, all nine yards.
And they're strong guys and they're great and everything, but when it comes to moral courage to speak out,
I know guys that have Congressional Medal of Honor winners are scared to talk because they are conforming to their own death.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Son vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function. Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
And look to the left and look to the right, but you're one of the dangerous ones.
We are winning in the take-back of the Republic, but those of us on the front lines are going to be demonized.
We're going to be attacked and we're going to be twisted, at least our doppelgangers, our strawmen, into something to hurt America.
The enemy takes our strengths and twists our swords into lies.
And that's what they're doing to Donald Trump. They're doing it to me. They're doing it to anybody else that sticks their heads up.
You can go to DrudgeReport.com and you can see all about Tommy Robinson in prison.
You can see the link over the right-hand side to the Soviet events.
Tommy Robinson Update, UK in shock as judge orders cover-up in Soviet-style disappearance of journalists.
Activists jailed in London. Judge orders pressed blackout.
Robinson silence. There is almost no coverage of this in the U.S. other than Infowars.com and DrudgeReport.com.
It isn't like I'm up there going, oh look, I'm exclusive. I don't want to be exclusive.
I was sitting there at 7 a.m. catching catfish on a totally calm lake with no one on it.
And my children put their life preservers on to get in a little fishing boat.
My young, my middle daughter and my son, my older daughter was up there with my baby and my wife.
They were so excited and they said, Daddy, let's go to that island where we catch all those fish.
And I said, I'm sorry, I got to leave. And my middle daughter, sweetheart, said, again, Daddy?
And I'm not even complaining. Tommy Robinson is in a prison, but we're all going to be there if we don't start fighting as the sacrifices it takes.
I know 13 people have been questioned the last week and a half. I talked to Michael Caputo, the only one that had courage to come on and say his name,
because they threatened him. They said, you don't talk about this or you're going to prison.
They threatened Zach. And Zach's a combat veteran, decorated, well-known guy in PsyOps, an officer.
You heard him breaking down earlier on there because his family and the Pentagon and the FBI said you're going to prison if you talk to Jones again.
So you need to understand the levels we're at. And then Lewis Farrakhan, they take what he says out of context.
He said stuff I don't agree with. He invited me to his house a few years ago, said, I actually like Trump.
How do I break that to my people? And he played this clip from Wonder Roger Stone.
This clip happened Friday morning with Viral Saturday. Lewis Farrakhan gives a backhanded endorsement of Trump.
Even more sophisticated than Connie just saying, I love Trump. We have a right to do this.
He says, oh yeah, Trump is out to get us whatever you have. But boy, the elite really hate him.
And boy, he's an anomaly, isn't he? And Connie, stuff's good happening.
I know for a fact Farrakhan likes Trump. They don't know what to do.
Farrakhan didn't even say don't tell people that. I'm at dinner with him after a three-hour interview.
I'm at his house dinner for hours and hours. Man, these guys could talk forever.
Super intense. Super smart. And they wanted to know the future.
They could instinctively get Trump was not to get black people who wanted to change things.
He just wants prosperity. So here's Lewis Farrakhan basically endorsing Trump.
They understand folks. And we're going to Roger Stone in two minutes. Here is Lewis Farrakhan.
And some people would argue that it's better now that the racism is more in our face rather than hitting.
Excuse me. What's your perspective on that?
Well, that wasn't the intent of this administration to do a lot of good for us.
But the nature of this administration is good for us.
Say pause. Start over again. He didn't even really give him a backhand account.
I wish I could talk like that because Farrakhan's probably the most well-spoken person in the world today.
Even better than Trump, better than Roger Stone. The way he takes it all.
I'm not being honest about Farrakhan. I was with him for three hours on air and then hours and hours at dinner.
And it was like he got every nuance, every angle you name it.
I'm not kissing his ass. It's just true. And notice that guy's like, yeah, the racism's out in the open now with Trump.
Farrakhan knows the truth from all the rappers and everybody else about Trump.
So he likes black people. He likes everybody. He really likes black people. He likes the energy.
And that's Roger Stone, but he won't tell you.
The point is, is that he's sitting there and Farrakhan just takes that like a judo move and pushes it aside and goes,
oh yeah, but that wasn't the intent to help us.
He just sidesteps that. But notice he's this big disruptor that he endorses Trump because he knows he just comes out and endorses him.
He'll be destroyed. But can he get these folks to come to the water and drink?
You can lead a horse to water. Can you make it drink?
Because the establishment you hate wants to kill everybody that supports Trump.
Let's go to this clip. Here it is.
And some people would argue that it's better now that the racism is more in our face rather than hitting, hitting, excuse me.
What's your perspective on that?
Well, that wasn't the intent of this administration to do a lot of good for us.
But the nature of this administration is good for us.
Because now, you know, sometimes you think you're where you are not.
And so Trump is letting you know where you really stand.
And because of Trump's way, he is an anomaly.
There's never been no president quite like Mr. Trump.
But there's something that he's doing.
I'm going to come out in a few weeks and talk about it.
But Trump is destroying every enemy that was an enemy of our rise.
Who's the enemy of our rise?
Is it the Department of Justice where we get none?
Is it Congress where you make a law that favors us and then you turn around and destroy it?
Is it the media that has destroyed every black leader that stood up for us, calling us out of our name?
Martin Luther King suffered it, Malcolm suffered it, Dubois suffered it, Marcus Gavi suffered it.
So he's attacking the media, calls it fake news.
Well, I don't think everything is fake, but I know very well that we have been the victims of some fake news.
He's beating up the FBI.
Go at it, baby.
Because they've been beating the hell out of us ever since J. Edgar Hoover and the counterintelligence program of the U.S. government.
So go ahead, Mr. Trump.
So that's Farrakhan trying to wake people up who've been brainwashed.
We've all been brainwashed.
But it's a historic moment because the truth is, Trump is pragmatic.
He wants everybody to have a future.
The globalists know that. That's why they're out to get him.
And this is a pretty big time to be alive, Roger Stone.
We're going to come back for two seconds with you.
I appreciate you being here with us.
None of us were going to come in today.
You had plans with your family at the beach.
Your wife's been sick.
But history, we've now 12 people you've talked to.
Now, Army officer, they came to him and they said,
Roger Stone, Alex Jones, the masterminds with Trump, of treason, you better agree that you've been part of it.
And he's like, this is insane. I've never met him.
I've been a guest on one show with Roger Stone.
This is the level, Roger.
No, it's really extraordinary, Alex.
You know, having come up empty-handed on the whole Russian collusion, WikiLeaks nonsense,
although they continue to ask those insane questions of people.
And then you have mainstream media outlets like the Atlantic or the Wall Street Journal that continue to further this whole fake narrative,
you know, continuing under the premise that, oh, Assange is an agent of the Russians.
WikiLeaks is a Russian front.
It's nonsense.
There's no question about it, Alex.
They intend to frame me.
They intend to frame you.
They want to charge us on some bogus offense that is designed to leverage my testimony against the president of the United States.
Well, let me say this.
John Dean, I am not.
That's right. And the weird thing is I have no fear.
I feel like I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be for all those children that these Satanists and pedophiles are abusing and I can feel their fall.
I am so honored right now.
Roger will be right back.
Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve. Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price. The Fox Karambit knife.
Finally available in the U.S., the Fox Karambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to TheUltimateKnife.com.
Truly the best knife you will ever own and only available at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Use promo code radio and check out for free shipping. Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Fellow Patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Like you, I was a prisoner of the Outleft Sanctuary State until one day I chose to leave my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us.
If you're ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our BlackRifle Real Estate team is here to help.
Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful pregnant alone formula, now with an added energy boost.
Now, you can support your heart, brain and aging process with an added natural energy boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate leaf extract and more.
Paired with the powerful ingredients in the original Real Red Pill formula,
the Real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick-me-up to get you through the day.
The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body.
Don't miss out on the all-new upgrade to your favorite product.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and get the Real Red Pill Plus today.
Get Real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
And it's said in the New Testament that Jesus wept.
The Garden of Gassimidae wept for the folly of humankind.
Forgive them father, they know not what they do.
You can feel energetically in the universe, great crossroads for the future of our species is here.
I was not coming in today, I'm not complaining, I'm just saying this how important this is.
But what I learned from Zach, whose identity I know, after 12 people, including Michael Caputo,
that came on on Monday, the only one that had the courage to do it, not knock on the others,
to say, yeah, it's crazy, you're like a main focus, was Zach, who's just been a caller and then I confirmed who he was
because he was saying stuff I knew that was really on target.
He's probably been on like 10 times or something since I learned who he was.
They claimed Roger and I with Trump are quarterbacking this and that Zach's the traitor in the military.
I'm actually saying, we were going to progress America till Alex stopped it.
I've learned from other people they're doing this, people go, what are you talking about?
Alex Jones is a talk show host. Yeah, he's big, but he's not running it.
So now they're going to move, they basically told Zach from collusion to just being involved in campaigns is illegal.
Or you ordered a ham sandwich in the wrong bank account or whatever, as Roger Stone was saying.
And then Tommy Robinson secretly arrested and disappeared into prison and all of that craziness is going on.
And we've got his crew coming on tomorrow and just all this insanity.
It's like the deep state is freaking out that humanity and America woke up and said, we don't like you.
So they're now just going completely hysterical.
Roger, so let's talk about them honing in on you.
And what you said yesterday on the Sunday show that they're openly trying to frame you.
You've not talked to folks they've talked to.
It is clear where they're going.
They are completely desperate and the Mueller news we now learn is is focusing on Roger Stone.
And I know you're not involved in anything, but me, I mean, that is next level.
They're so crazy, Roger, that they think they're going to say, I'm this foreign agent and the smart money's on like Mueller does with his anthrax stuff.
Other things kill us before we can ever testify.
The word is Mueller is going to kill us.
Well, Alex, first of all, let me touch on something you said earlier, because as you pointed out my my beloved wife, Nydia, the rock in my life,
the literally my soulmate has been in and out of the hospital after emergency surgery.
And I want to report to the Info Wars audience that thanks to your prayers and your well wishes, she is home, she is doing well, and she's on the mend.
There were some setbacks.
So thank you so much prayer works.
You lifted her up with prayer and we are grateful.
No, I think it's absolutely clear that that Mr. Mueller is now sifting through literally every molecule of my being with this microscopic fine tooth comb.
Look at my private life, my personal life, my family, we know 13 people.
It's probably 500.
Well, that's absolutely right.
Most of them under 25 years old.
So these are young people that I employ because I use an army of young entrepreneurs, graphics peoples, researchers, writers, camera men, gaffers and so on.
These people have been terrorized by some of the special counsel's people and it's abundantly clear there is one theme in every interview.
Really, two, one, tell us about Stone's involvement with Alex Jones.
Two, do you think that Stone will testify against the president?
That's very clearly where they're going.
Now, I don't know what Michael Cohen will do.
I don't know what Michael Cohen has done.
I don't know what Michael Cohen knows, but I do know this.
I am no rat.
I will not bear false witness against this president to get myself off the hook for some fabricated bogus offense that they cook up as leverage to get me to roll on the president.
But they are counting on the fact that I don't have the financial resources to fight.
And that's why we're going to have a fundraiser next week.
We're going to focus like a laser room and do that.
I totally agree.
I'm going to use that after the break, but here's the thing.
This is quite an honor to be like, this is what the deep states got us.
Their whole thing's come up empty.
They're in bed with the Russians.
They're in bed with the Communist Chinese.
They're in bed.
This really shows, but it is surreal.
I should tell you, like a year and a half ago, relax.
It's all bull, you know, so what now is happening to me.
You finally get how crazy they are that Hillary and Soros and all these mummies, all these crepe keepers, cultural crepe keepers are literally thinking.
This is going to fly that Alex Jones is a Russian agent and the FBI is going to arrest him because that's what they were telling Zach is we're going to get your boss.
We know he's a Russian.
You're all going to prison.
And the guy's laughing at him.
He's an army officer.
This is cuckoo town.
Well, but Alex, I think it's very important to recognize the extent to which this is all egged on by irresponsible fake news media outlets like MSNBC.
CNN, The Daily Beast, Slate, Salon, HuffPo, The Wall Street Journal with a relentless drum beat, repeating again and again.
Stone must have known about the WikiLeaks disclosure.
Stone must have been trafficking with a sign.
Stone must be a Russian agent.
Jones must have been in touch with the Russians.
Jones's operation is promoted by Russian bots, after all.
So I kind of know how the Christians felt in the Coliseum when the crowd was screaming for the release of the lions, the Ari Melbers, and the other despicable losers who keep promulgating the same lie.
But he must have known about WikiLeaks.
I think this drives the special counsel forward, yet still they come up empty-handed in this phony narrative.
I agree.
It shows the desperation.
Trump's winning.
The economy's coming back.
All of it.
What do you expect them to do, though?
They're not giving up.
They are massively intensifying their attacks.
Well, I think that there's increasing panic based on new research put forward by Mark Levin and promoted by Sean Hannity that the very appointment of Mueller is unconstitutional and could be challenged in the courts.
This is the last thing they want to hear.
Look, I am a supporter of Rudy Giuliani in his role as the president's lawyer.
Suddenly you see a new combativeness by the president, you see him taking the deep state to the woodshed about Spygate, you see Giuliani questioning the partisan nature again today of the Mueller inquisition.
This is not an inquiry.
This is not a legitimate legal proceeding.
This is an inquisition.
And Robert Mueller is Turk Mada.
And let's be clear, there is a civil war against the globalist chai-com interest in America.
They're the globalists trying to sell the country out, just like we're persecuted and sued and attacked.
It's the same way America is.
It's all been gang up on America, shell out America.
That's what the globalists have done.
And that's all coming to an end.
And they are crapping their little panties over it.
We're going to do a few more statements with Roger Stone straight ahead about where we're going after this.
Tommy Robinson, Inside Intel, on that huge breaking news.
It's all coming up straight ahead.
Newswars.com.
That link has not been banned by Twitter yet.
Newswars.com.
Tweet that link, Newswars.
Tweet that link, Newswars.com.
That's 800-342-2968.
Go beyond censorship.
Brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalists.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com, or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you.
And so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
We will prevail if you take action, and I know you will.
X2, Biotru Selenium Combo.
50% off with free shipping.
Brainforce Plus.
Alpha Power.
The Real Red Pill Plus.
DNA Force Plus.
Flora Life Products.
Immune Wall.
Pollen Black.
Infowars Life Select Storeable Foods.
One year, six month and three month food supply.
50% off with free shipping.
Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access to exclusive store-wide deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
Hey, I've been following you since I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Infowars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen,
and I had to load down the page on my dial-up into there, and I thought it was pretty cool.
And read all the books, and seen all the DVDs, and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality Decayman, the Real Red Pill,
MycoZX body, it's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit, and it's just the more you know God,
the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew,
and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You know, a lot of folks have history run over them.
When they get up, they dust themselves off and pretend it never happened.
But some people have destiny run over them, and they wake up and become part of it.
That's a paraphrase of a Western Churchill quote.
Roger Stone's my guest here.
We're going to be broadcasting the third and fourth hour like we were planning.
I drove in today with kids ready to fish, having a great day at the lake,
because you're talking to army people, you're talking to others,
and they're saying, yeah, the eye's here, saying we're all in a conspiracy.
We're over through the government.
We're criminals.
It doesn't even rush it now.
It's like saying, and you're a muppet, and you're on Sesame Street,
or you're a Chinese jet pilot from the moon.
You're like, you're joking, right?
No, we know you were through the government. We're going to put you in prison.
It's so comical that they've got this many criminals in the government,
and the FBI is this corrupt, like you don't even make sure you don't want to be in America anymore.
That's their plan.
It's just so demoralizing, so criminal, but they've had decades to hire criminals.
They've had decades.
We can't give up on the country.
Trump's saying, don't give up on it. We're not giving up.
If you don't get on there an hour and a half haven't plugged,
if you don't finance Soros and Hillary and all their fake lawsuits will win,
but why would you let them win?
You can get great supplements, great t-shirts, great books, great films,
great water filtration, air filtration, but the supplements are really amazing.
At infowarstore.com and checkmate everything.
And for Memorial Day, we've got free shipping on more than 50 items.
That's $19.95. It's a great deal at $39.95.
We think competitors for $60 have similar formulas.
Knock out the amazing sleep aid.
X2, super male vitality, alpha power, they're all amazing.
50% off infowarstore.com.
We have combos, individual deals.
If they'll just finance us, we will crush them.
But if you don't understand it's a financial and information war, they will win.
They'll make you poor while the globalist plan is to make America poor.
Just like they're attacking M4s to make us poor.
It's a plan.
infowarstore.com.
Get, of course, the new Bookstones rules at infowarstore.com.
You're there as well.
So, Roger, closing out here so you can spend some time with your family.
I just had to come in.
It was like a boxer being punched and not fighting back.
You would learn.
We already knew, and we know it's a fraud, and they're the globalists.
They're the enemies.
They're running out of gas.
The economy's starting to come back.
They're trying to suppress that.
They're trying to cause race war.
They're trying to cause war in North Korea.
It's just they're so criminal and their own followers, Roger, aren't even getting anything out of it.
You know, Alex, there comes a time when you go to battle and you will either return home carrying your shield or you will return home being carried on it.
You're ready to fight.
I think that I am about to be punished for my support for Donald Trump.
My crime is advocating the election of a non-globalist president, the billionaire businessman reformer, Donald J. Trump.
That is what I am guilty of, and the screaming hyenas of the far left, the MSNBCs, the Mother Joneses, the other fake news media,
have been screaming for my blood for months.
They're now trying to dig up old girlfriends to try to get them to bear false witness.
Oh, believe me, I know.
But I love that Spartan quote because the women would tell them, even after you come home with your shields are on.
It was in a war. You drop it when you're running.
You come home with your shields are on them.
I want that culture.
That's what I want out of women.
Not a bunch of sycophantic cowards like everybody's become.
Well, I think it's a great quote from Plutarch.
You mentioned it, so I'm going to take the opportunity.
People ask me how I intend to face up to this onslaught from Mueller and his all-powerful gum shoes and his prosecutors.
The answer is very simple.
I'm going to follow the rules in this book, Stone's Rules, available at the Infowars.com store.
My whole battle plan is in this book.
The way I'm going to handle this is in this book, not with my tail between my legs, but as a fighter, as a warrior.
But I'm going to need your help and the help of everybody listening because this is going to be an epic battle.
Roger Stone, Alex Jones, and other patriots like General Mike Flynn, we have no intention of being just mowed over, not happening.
Don't people get America was founded with, come back with your shields are on them?
Everyone's so sycophantic and, oh, let's grovel, let's go to another movie, eat some more food, party more, and then everything's degrading.
There's no soul.
My soul feels strong, actually.
Everybody's all freaked out.
Zack's a great guy.
He's all freaked out with them, threatening him.
Let's go.
I mean, like, Tommy Robinson, he knows he's making history right now.
He exists.
He's standing up against hundreds of thousands of little girls being sex trafficked by pedophiles, raping them all day.
When they get pregnant, they kill a lot of little girls and they feed them in the Islamic kebab machines as a big Islamic joke.
That's confirmed.
I mean, my God, that's the normal behavior.
We're all Tommy Robinson.
We want ramming speed.
Let's go.
I just hope if they shoot me in the head or something and I'm a vegetable in the hospital, you'll come pull the plug.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I want it.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Mueller, let's go.
Well, Alex, one of the reasons why I think I'm being targeted is because in my book, The Clinton's War on Women, I very, very extensively exposed Jeffrey Epstein.
And I question why Epstein, who was sexually assaulting underage girls and trafficking underage children to other pedophiles, was never prosecuted to the full extent of the law, that he was allowed to plead to one state charge of solicitation.
When he should have been hung up by his neck, he should have been hung up by his filthy little chicken neck till it popped.
But we now know the answer. He was an FBI informant under Robert Mueller, under FBI Director Robert Mueller.
And we now have actual evidence of FBI file saying as long as he is spilling his guts to us, we won't prosecute him for his crimes.
This is why they are targeting Roger Stone.
I have been talking about the Bushes and the Clintons and the Deep State and the Clinton Foundation and the ignominious corruption of John Podesta and the Clinton Combine.
And that is why they want to silence me.
It's why they want to close down info wars.
It's why they're suing you and Sandy Hook and a dozen other bogus, harassment, frivolous, but expensive lawsuits.
This is their new tactic, smear and frame. That's exactly what they have in mind.
I'm a fighter. I choose to fight. I know you're a fighter. I know you choose to fight.
The question is those who are listening and watching us, what will you do now?
The revolution is now. The war is now. We're ready to fight, but we cannot fight without your support.
I love it. You're quoting Greek philosophers and Patrick Henry at the same time.
I'm drilling at this point. You're absolutely right.
I've forgotten about it. We should make a bigger deal out of that.
Robert Mueller on record had Epstein, the pedophile airplane billionaire, flying kids around with Obama and Harvey Weisschen and going to these Islamic bases as well where they have these harems of little kids.
And Mueller had him as a quote, informant, framing everyone.
Robert Mueller is the pedophile kingpin protecting Alita Express and Epstein.
I mean, my God, what a demon. What a hell spawn.
And all the left protecting him, they're now on board with the protection of pedophilia and the arrest of Tommy Robinson.
Doesn't it all come into focus as the deputy pope for trafficking a hundred little boys? Reportedly, he's in a secret trial in Australia as well.
Doesn't it all come into focus right now before we drop our big torpedoes?
Roger Stone, great job, my friend. We will have you back as soon as possible.
I know you think they're fake indictments and frame ups are coming soon.
All I can say is, damn the maneuvers, go straight at them, and we've only begun to fight.
I salute you, my friend.
Great to be here, Alex, and after they come after me, they're definitely coming after you.
I look forward to it. God, it's good to stand up against pedophiles.
We'll be back.
Roseanne Bard tweeted there, that's Tommy Robinson refining pedophiles. They will not stop us.
You can smell victory. Accelerate to attack speed. We'll be back. Spread the links.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 188-253-3139.
If you needed more proof that Amazon's Alexa device is nothing more than glorified spy tech,
a family in Portland, Oregon claims the device allegedly recorded their private conversations
and then sent the audio files to a random person in the family's contact list.
When they received a phone call from one of the husband's employees saying,
unplug your Alexa devices right now, you're being hacked, the family thought it was a joke,
until the employee was able to recount details of their private conversation.
The employee told them that he received audio files of recordings from inside the house.
The family's entire house was connected to Amazon devices that controlled the heat, lights, and security system.
Danielle, who is understandably asked the local news station to keep her last name anonymous at this point,
said at first she and her husband thought it was a joke.
After listening to the recorded files for herself, Danielle admitted feeling invaded,
saying, I'm never plugging that device in again because I can't trust it.
Leanne McAdoo, Infowars.com.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm Leanne McAdoo, Infowars.com.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
Red Pill, now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase funds the operation.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have an Infowars life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real Red Pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you
that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Well, this is very, very different.
I've been with Tommy for about a year and a half now.
We've gone to lots of protests.
We've been to universities.
We've been around the UK.
But something very different has happened.
And that's that people are now absolutely furious about this.
There's electricity almost in the air of people who have completely had enough of all of it.
Now confirm that Europe is being forcibly merged under the EU with Islam.
There's deals made with Saudi Arabia and others.
Saudi Arabia has come out and said, we've been told to build mosque in Europe.
We've been told to do this.
This is what the Catholic Church wants.
It's what the new pope wants.
They want abortion.
Ireland just legalized abortion.
It'll be a sacrament soon.
Well, Kailin Robertson has been there when this happened to Tommy.
He's been covering the live events as they scaled the gates there at 10 Downing Street, almost total news blackout.
Now they're at Speaker's Corner.
He just got back to his place after all of this.
They're in London.
And if you just joined us on all those radio and TV stations out there, I think it's better if Kailin describes to you just in a snapshot who Tommy is.
Most people know.
Now they do.
And then the order that the press, thousands of different comments online taken down, hundreds of mainstream news articles from BBC,
described television, just deleted the articles and said, we've been given a de-notice.
So again, England is not as free as folks think.
Certainly if not of you are actually someone from there.
So thank you for coming on.
You're at Kailin Robb on Twitter.
And of course, also are the main contributor with the work and the great work we see there at Tommy Robinson online.com.
So thank you for coming on with us, sir.
Oh, thanks for having me.
And you very actively described what's been going on in this country in the last few days.
We've seen news articles completely wiped out.
I've spoken to journalists who are really, really keen for information who have then later said, sorry, we had to pull the whole story.
We can't talk about any of this.
It is very, very, very, very worrying.
There were even journalists.
I mean, there's lots of technicalities about what I can and can't talk about.
I was in the courtroom when all of this happened.
Obviously there's a reporting restriction.
But, you know, when the judge even said that there's a reporting restriction, they closed the books.
They wouldn't report on it after that.
And it's a very, very, very bizarre situation.
Usually reporting restrictions like this are only placed in very, very extreme cases, very, very high-profile cases.
And there's not really any reasoning for them to do this, in this particular scenario.
Other than so that people don't know that they've done something wrong.
Thank God that you guys are reporting it.
Thank God Imple Wars is making a deal out of it.
And I think Fox News has just spoken about it.
And that information is going to the UK.
Thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of people have been writing and protesting about this now.
They've all been talking about it in the street.
And that information is getting to the general public, despite their attempts to stop it.
And so hopefully the ball will just keep rolling.
And more and more people will look to the US to find that information about this.
But in this country, the situation, how it feels, going to pick up a copy of the local newspaper,
going to look on any articles, there's a complete blackout.
We can't see anything.
The only people talking about it are people on Twitter.
It's actually very strange.
It's a massive news story.
And it's completely unreported.
The feeling in this country right now is absolutely bizarre.
It's intensified the mistrust in the media.
People are furious.
I actually met someone today who is from the left who works for a very left-wing,
very well-known media outlet.
And they said they've never seen anger like this before.
They said it's actually very, very worrying where this could go.
Is something happening to Tommy in prison?
Sorry, I'm just in the middle of that.
I understand you weren't able to get back to your house, and so you just got out of the vehicle
and are talking to us on the side of the road.
It sounds great.
We totally understand again.
We're talking the main camera person, the main right-hand guy.
Tommy Robinson is with us right now.
Kalin Robert Sun is here with us.
And we're talking about an iron curtain of censorship that's taking place
in multiple levels of a total power grab with political correctness,
where they arrest police chiefs that talk about Muslim rapes in Sweden,
where the shazi has been reactivated and works for Facebook.
You can't make this up to arrest people that criticize Islam.
Twitter and Facebook help the government of Pakistan find people that are atheists.
They call it blasphemy, and they are executed.
So you have to understand, Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, Google, especially Apple,
they're already working with the Communist Chinese rounding up the Christians and Buddhists.
They're already working helping the Arab Spring throw gays off buildings.
The West funded that.
The elites are allied with Islam because there's 1.8 million of them.
The West is dying.
And the decision hasn't been made to rehabilitate the Muslims and bring them into the West.
I don't care if they got brown skin, a bunch of them.
But their culture is pure absolute evil, many of them.
The biggest threat to a Muslim is other Muslims, as you know, Kalin.
So get into, I understand this, this iron curtain of tyranny.
He simply reported that they were having, as you know, huge trials on the child kidnapping rings
that he had first exposed and been put in prison for.
They give him a sentence for that.
Then he's given 13 months commuted.
He simply goes and covers.
They're having a trial.
Nothing about the details of the trial, just that there is a trial.
That's totally normal under jurisprudence, English common law, Magna Carta, Bill of Rights,
Constitution, and your own law.
Everybody knows that.
They take him to jail for that.
And then they order everyone not to talk about it, period, and denotice hundreds of publications.
As you said, talking to the members of the press, this is unprecedented.
And we have seen thousands hit the streets.
Describe what you witnessed the level of awakening here.
This is beyond the old Soviet Union.
Well, this is very, very different.
I've been with Tommy for about a year and a half now.
We've gone to lots of protests.
We've been to universities.
We've been around the UK.
But something very different has happened.
And that's that people are now absolutely curious about this.
There's an electricity almost in the air of people who have completely had enough of all of it.
You're right about what you said with people being terrified and the establishment and our very establishment
and our police being terrified about reporting on these grooming gang scandals.
We haven't seen press restrictions on any cases with, you know, people like Vol Paris
and all of these big, big, massive high-profile cases with white pedophiles and things like that.
We have the BBC with helicopters outside their house to see if there's any accusations.
This is completely unprecedented and people can see straight through it.
And you can feel the tension in the air of this country right now.
You can cut it with a knife. It's so intense.
It's quite scary, actually, seeing where this could go.
And obviously, if any harm comes to him, I can predict mass violence across the UK.
I can predict towns and cities coming to a standstill.
What's about to happen is a change in a way we have never seen before in this country.
People, everything is shifting.
There are journalists and there are mainstream people.
I've had MPs and very, very high-profile people contacting and talking to me
and saying that they want to go straight out, guns blazing and going against us
but they'll probably lose everything.
It's torn apart the fabric of the country right now and everything sort of fractured.
I can't really describe how insane all this is.
I was in an LGBT bar the other day, yesterday.
And everybody in there was talking about it.
You've got fringe groups on the left, gays and transgender people.
Everybody shaking their hands and talking about this.
It's united everybody who has been on the far left.
Because the general public, whether you're liberal, conservative, black, white, whatever,
you're against pedophilia, even the average Muslim.
But you've got this strand of Islam that does it.
Sex traffic going on, blacks being sold in cages in Libya, all this.
And now we're finding out it's there.
And as you said, they find a dead girl at Jimmy Savelle's place.
It's national news. It should be.
You've got helicopters at the Royal Palace when they find a dead kid buried in the backyard.
But now suddenly there's a total blackout on these grooming gangs.
Because, well, don't we know, it came out what a month ago before they did a blackout
and it turns out the major police and other social worker leaders were using the Muslims in many of these cases.
Don't say which ones. I know you can't.
Even though it's in the news there, you'll be arrested.
Think about that, folks.
Delivering, they have the Muslims like Renfield.
Some of the Muslims off the hook here are delivering it to the pedo-British elites.
Well, they don't, yes, exactly.
And they don't quite know what they've done.
I think the people who have instigated this, the people who have orchestrated it,
the people who thought it was a good idea to silence him,
they're no out of touch.
They don't quite realize that it's not going to work.
In 2007, at the beginning of the EDL, when Tommy was starting out,
they used to use these very tactics.
They used to silence him.
They used to turn him in jail.
And no one knew about it.
There wasn't the internet.
There wasn't social media.
There was no one to cause outrage.
You do a press blackout and nobody knows what's going on.
Now, they do not realize what they have done.
In fact, if they wouldn't have put this press blackout,
maybe not as many people would have known about it because it caused such a scandal.
They're so out of touch, they don't realize how this is going to erupt
and how this is going to completely fail.
This is, it's unprecedented.
So it's fair to say, I think you can mark this point as the beginning of the real explosion,
the pushback against what's happening.
They've jumped the metaphorical shark here.
I folks know that these massive grooming scandals are happening in every city.
No Muslims and pedos are above the law and folks are angry across the board.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen blocks.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways,
eye comfort and respiratory functions.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials
and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block, chewable tablets.
Western Europe has already banned free speech,
and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down over the UK.
They're set to pass rules, not a law,
that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison.
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK.
CNN and many others are calling for InfoWars to be shut down, taken off the web.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying,
go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against InfoWars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalists.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter
so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can bully their way in
and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society.
That is critical to this fight. We will prevail if you take action, and I know you will.
Coming up in 30 minutes in studio, he is in the building.
Michael Rotondo, one of the top stories this week.
The individual who at 30 was evicted by a court from his parents' home
that he was not wanting to leave, that he is going to be in studio with us, ladies and gentlemen.
Here is a clip of him talking about it.
This 30-year-old dude is facing an eviction threat from his own parents.
That's just so ridiculous.
Michael Rotondo's mom and dad are so fed up, they're suing to get him out of the house.
I don't see why the judge wants to throw people out on the street.
His parents filed the extraordinary lawsuit following months of repeated attempts
to get him to leave their home in Syracuse, New York, and the story is getting lots of attention.
The judge asked why he didn't just move in with his girlfriend, and the man said,
Girlfriend, I'm a 30-year-old man living at home. Dude, there's no girlfriend.
I just think it's the first empty nest by eviction.
We are men who still live at home.
It's reminding many of a real-life failure to launch the 2006 movie starring Matthew McConaughey and Bradley Cooper.
This is going to take a stick of dynamite to get me out of my parents' house.
30-year-old Michael Rotondo says he has no money.
He's actually a dad himself, but he lost custody and visitation rights.
His parents say he's a freeloader who never offered to pay rent or do chores.
He's apparently so thrifty, he filled his water bottle with the court's pitcher.
Christina and Mark Rotondo served their son five official notices.
He is in the building, ladies and gentlemen, and the leftist media is attacking this guy.
But at the same time, conservative media is, but wait, they're the ones that want us to be dependent.
They're the ones in San Francisco and everywhere that say we should just absolutely pay for bums.
San Francisco has paid for thousands of homeless people to have sex changes.
Look it up. So I don't want to hear it.
I already got to pay for abortions for people in Travis County,
whether you're for abortion or against it, taxpayers shouldn't be paying for it.
I got to pay for sex changes. I'm sick of it.
Let me tell you something. You want to chop your junk off. That's your business. I'm a libertarian.
Don't make me pay for it. Just like if you want a nose job or you want a facelift.
It's the same thing. I'm not paying for it.
It's incredible, but the left will pay for sex changes of six-year-old kids in England,
but they won't pay for a little four-year-old girl who has a leg that's four inches too short.
It's a $5,000 surgery here in the U.S. to go in and have the bone fused in,
but they just told her we're going to cut your leg off cupcake.
See, it's all about the leftist and their weird, sick social engineering having full control.
Oh, we're not going to give you cataract surgery. Here's your cane.
Oh, they got more doctors than anybody per capita in the world in places like Cuba and Venezuela,
where there's no machines or medicine and got a broken leg, cane.
Got a bad knee, cane. Going blind, cane.
Stand up and speak out. They beat you over the head with a cane.
That doesn't do it. They take you out in the fields, fire in squad, shoot you,
and every little liberal trendy in Bernie Sanders loves it because they don't know who it's like,
the white people that he is. They're going to get you before.
I got $3 million worth of houses. I got a, I like Audi A8, $120,000.
My wife needs one. I need one. But capitalism, you know, when I go,
this is a real quote to the grocery store, there's 35 types of the odorant.
You don't need all that. You don't, I just need an Audi A8.
No big deal. $120,000.
Venezuela is a really good place, though.
When we return, Marc Rondazzo, one of the top free speech lawyers in the country.
I've talked to my lawyers. That guy's awesome. We're going to get him on the team.
We're talking about doing that as liberal friends of my crucifying, though.
There's so much going on. There's the new Sandy Hook lawsuits against me.
We're going to get it all that. We're going to talk about all of it.
When we return in T-minus 60 seconds and then the countdown begins until we have the 30-year-old kid in Facebook.
After losing the presidential election in 2016, Hillary Clinton says she wants to be the next CEO of Facebook.
It's the biggest news platform in the world.
But how exactly would she run Facebook if given the chance?
During the 2016 presidential campaign, Hillary Clinton campaign staffers were acting as assignment editors for the mainstream media
by telling reporters what to cover and what to keep secret from the public.
A batch of Clinton campaign emails released by WikiLeaks revealed that her staffers were directly working with mainstream journalists
to develop new stories favorable to Clinton.
The New York Times granted Hillary Clinton veto power over their articles.
Post Glenn Thrush asked Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta to approve his story prior to publication.
And another email shows the campaign was given the heads up on a story coming out of the Wall Street Journal
so that the campaign would have the opportunity to push back.
Clinton was effectively the editor-in-chief of the mainstream media.
See Ahhh heading across to The N. Macadoo Infowars dot com.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones.
coming to you live, from the front lines of the Info War.
Well, Mark Rendazzo, one of the top three speech first-minute lawyers in the country,
he's popping in for the next two segments with us, Rendazzo.com, he's got Rendazzo legal
in a whole bunch of states, including Connecticut, where we just got sued by more of the Sandy
Hook parents, and an FBI agent.
And my lawyers, and I even had some other lawyers look at it, like Mr. Rendazzo, looked
at it and said, this is the next level of a frivolous lawsuit.
I mean, they've got stuff out of context, it was in statute of limitations.
So it's not even admissible, and it's not even accurate, and I don't even know who this
FBI agent is, it's just a way to run this all through the media, but I wanted to get
his take on that a little bit, but also on just the attacks and free speech in general
on conservatives, libertarians online, and where he thinks that's going, and then I
want to tie it into Morgan Friedman, you've got eight women, and then you've got eight
other witnesses, or 16 total, so I guess that is eight other witnesses, that he would
tell women, you're really hot, I want to go out with you, man, you're sexy.
And the women on TV, we go, oh, kind of giggle about it, and then he would stop, is it a
creepy old man?
Yeah, I mean, he's acting like I acted when I was about 18, but you know, that's how
you, quite frankly, in this world, I mean, if you want to get game as quickly as possible,
you may have to run through a bunch of women, but you're going to run into the women that
are ready to go, and James Kahn, one of my favorite actors from Rollerball, you name
it, of course, great job in the Godfather, he was asked about Friedman, which is no
comparison to Weinstein, who, all these witnesses to him, raping women, and then you've got
Friedman, and they're conflating the two, like hitting on women is now sexual assault,
and then the same is, raping him in the back of your limousine, reportedly hundreds of
women, I mean, he poorly did this all the time, so let's go ahead and just play that
James Kahn clip, and then we're going to go to our guest, Mr. Rondaza, here it is.
Any thoughts on Morgan Friedman being accused of sexual assault?
I don't know how much of Morgan is a good guy, what do you think about him losing endorsements
just over allegations, like, already, without, he's already losing endorsements over the
allegations that just came out, I know, we're becoming a very strange place, yeah, Morgan
is a great guy, you know, I mean, that's, I think that's why God made men and women,
so they could be inspected.
Well actually, there's an attack on men and women, there's an attack on regular biology,
this is the deep state, it's in the witty, at least trying to make this whole fight with
each other, and smoke screen in my view, the real sexual abuse going on by elites in this
country, but that's another issue that ties into speech, my right to tell a woman, I think
you're gorgeous, on the street, or at a ticket counter, or whatever, she says, buzz off pal,
but I don't buzz off, you know, then there can be an issue, but men don't even do that
now, men are like all this in the West and scared of women, Mark, it's another subject,
but it does deal with speech, what's your take on that as we see Harvey Weinstein doing
the perp walk?
Look, you know, there's certainly our legitimate sexual harassment and sexual abuse cases,
and if somebody has, is an employer and has quid pro quo sexual harassment over an employee,
that's wrong, you know, what Bill Cosby did, my God, I mean, I don't even get it, a celebrity
can walk into any bar and say to five different women, do you want to go home with me, one
of them is going to go home with him just because he's a celebrity, drugging somebody,
I hope the guy dies in prison, but you know, now it's like this incremental movement, it
can't ever be, we've stopped what's bad and we're happy, now it has to go to even the
guy hits on a woman, I mean, come on, look, my advice to all men out there, play the numbers,
you know, let, I mean, let her decide she doesn't want to sleep with you, don't you
decide it, ask everybody, why not, I don't see a problem with that, but you know, there
has to be this constant drum beat to beat down any semblance of masculinity in our culture,
you know, frankly, because, you know, I don't know why, but there's this mental illness
that seems to be going through us as a society that we want to completely purge any gender
differences and any kind of, you know, man, it's like the fun patrol showing up in a cheap
every single time.
Well, exactly, Morgan Freeman's not accused of anything that I wouldn't be completely
proud to do myself, at least from what I've seen in this segment so far.
Absolutely, I mean, I mean, he's a little pushy, some of it to me is creepy, but it's
a free country and the women though, act like they like it, they giggle, they play with
their hair, they wiggle around in the chair, and then that's when he starts getting a little
bit more aggressive.
So in a way, it's not creepy because they act like they like it.
Yeah, I mean, look, I wasn't there, but from what I've seen here, the only thing I've seen
is that the guy was flirting with women, which I think is...
Well, that's the allegation too, they're just saying that he was aggressively flirting
with them.
And again, how is that as big a story as Weinstein, which if this is true, and I think there's
so many people saying it and a lot of evidence to it, then I think the guy should be sent
to prison for life.
Yeah, I mean, again, just when men abuse their position, when men use either abuse their
position of authority or do something forceful or drug a woman, my God, I want to be the,
you know, I'll be the first one out there with a pitchfork and a torch.
But it's this, you know, you've got this loud contingent of a very small group of people
who really, you know, I think, I think it comes from mental illness from women who just
don't like their dads, you know, they just have this paradigm in their head that they
think that every guy is somehow evil and they've got to beat this out of society, that there
can be absolutely no masculinity at all.
And it's ultimately going to create, I think, a crisis if it hasn't already.
I mean, we've got to be worried about this.
Well, there's a thing also with liberal Democrat party women, with other Republicans that I
know that were that they like these hotels downtown in Austin, I'm married, I'm not involved
in any of this, but I hear about people, the Democrat women want alpha males that will
actually go and treat them bad and actually say horrible things to them.
And I'm like, I wouldn't even do that if they wanted you to.
But that's the whole point is there's the other six side of this, that a lot of these
women say that all masculinity is bad, but in truth, they're really looking for somebody
to treat them bad.
You've got 50 shades of gray and more and more women into all this bondage stuff.
So like you said, it really just sounds like insanity to me.
And I think it distracts from real bad things that are happening to women to conflate hitting
on a girl with raping.
Yeah, I mean, look, that is the problem, that there is this argument that it's a continuum
from flirting to rape.
And no, rape and sexual assault is an act of violence, flirting, hell, that's the first
step in the reproductive process, are you interested?
As far as these women at the hotels that want to be mistreated, I don't know, and I think
that's a dangerous way for guys to look at it.
I mean, I can certainly say that I've bumped into that.
Not my thing.
Not my thing either.
But that's what I'm saying is that's growing and it's generally with women that claim they're
liberal and hate all men.
It's like well known that interracial porn out sells three to one, four to one in the
deep South to white males.
I didn't know that.
But yeah, maybe that's a statistic, but it's the same thing that liberal will like take
women on women relationships and the amount of abuse that goes on there.
I mean, these are real statistics they don't want to discuss.
I don't know what they mean.
I don't know.
Well, I know what they mean and that is that, look, it's everything is about power and domination,
everything.
So imagine if you could walk into a room and everybody's supposed to play a certain game,
but all you have to do is, you know, pull one card and you're automatically at a disadvantage.
You know, this is a good way to target anyone and everyone who you might want to eliminate
or climb on top of.
It's the victim Olympics.
Let me ask you this, where are you going to break it and come back with the First Amendment?
When do you think we get the bottom of this?
When do we get peak political correctness?
One day in the future, there will be the Uber victim.
It will be one victim to rule over all of them.
You know, there will be a black lesbian in a wheelchair with an eye patch and every single
possible victimization and she will rule.
So it ends with?
It's dystopian.
Look, it's a dystopian fairy tale, but you know, it really is like this race to see who
can be strong through victimization.
That's right.
It's a race to make everybody be weak and lazy and stupid so they can be controlled.
Call it the crapper, water closet, outhouse or bathroom, but where do you go when there's
nowhere to go?
The answer is the Biffy Bag.
The Biffy Bag is a pocket sized disposable toilet that fits in your glove box, tackle
box, toolbox, backpack or purse.
The Biffy Bag has everything you need for a sanitary and comfortable relief experience.
It's ready to use in just seconds and just toss it in the trash when you're done.
It's your Biffy in a Jiffy.
Biffy Bag dot com.
B-I-F-F-Y-B-A-G dot com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly
delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653.
Goberkey.com.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Get the Ultimate Knife at an ultimate price.
The Fox Carambit Knife, finally available in the U.S. The Fox Carambit Knife opens with
one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense, and for way less
than other knives of this caliber.
Go to theultimateknife.com, truly the best knife you will ever own and only available
at theultimateknife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at theultimateknife.com.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
To help celebrate Memorial Day, we're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new
and old favorite products.
Now's the time to take advantage of these incredibly low prices of fan favorite supplements,
here and more with free shipping while supporting the InfoWare.
Super male and super female vitality, 50% off with free shipping.
X2 Biotru Selenium Combo, 50% off with free shipping.
Brain Force Plus, Alpha Power, The Real Red Pill Plus, DNA Force Plus, Flora Life Products,
Immune Wall, Pollen Black, InfoWare's Life Select Storeable Foods, one year, six month
and three month food supply, 50% off with free shipping.
Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access to exclusive store-wide
deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply
of storeable meals is crucial.
With InfoWare's Life Select Storeable Food, you can make sure you and your family are
ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no
better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals, including meals such as
Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch
and dinner.
InfoWare's Life Select Storeable Food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
They pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWare's Life Select Storeable Foods.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Okay, I got sidetracked over into the Harvey Weinstein situation and from what I've heard
people that know him and he is a monstrous pig, I said that he reportedly raped women
first, I was attacked by major publications on the left, like The Huffington Post saying
how Jones made outrageous claims, he said there's a cult too where they brand women
and torture them.
Well, I didn't want to say the name and get sued, I knew about nexium from people that
had been on the periphery of it, I'm going to leave it at that, but yeah, it's a lot
bigger than that and I heard Obama and Richard Branson were involved and I said that and
now it's in the news, but I'm going to stop right there, you've got the floor for the
time we have.
We're going to be back in the studio several hours with us, Mark Rondazza next Tuesday because
I knew he was a top lawyer, but my lawyer is one of the technical guys, some of their
guys are some of the top people and they say he's just one of the best, so we're honored
to have him here on the show and he's a more classical liberal, he's just tuned in.
Let's get into the latest Sandy Hook, more rounds of suits against me without giving
away too much, what do you think of it?
You know, when I look at a complaint like this and I see that it's got what, 394 paragraphs,
that's not always an indication of something, but it usually is in a case like this because
it's relatively simple facts.
If we look at the facts, they're saying you said something hurtful about them, you said
something untrue about them, that shouldn't require 400 odd paragraphs to explain and
when I look at this complaint and I look at how the logical contortions that some of it
went through, and I'm going to take at this point a judge, if you file a motion to dismiss,
is going to take everything in this complaint as true, just for the purpose of a motion
to dismiss, summary judgment or trial, that's later on when you evaluate the evidence.
Let's look at this and just say every single thing in it is true from a factual perspective.
It still seems like a pretty strange suit to me, it's trying to, you know, it's funny
how when it accuses you of being a conspiracy theorist, but then it creates this, it seems
like an implausible conspiracy among you and these other people who happen to just be some
of your viewers.
So you know, if you want to bring just as a theme, when you write a complaint, you write
legal documents, you've got to remember, you're talking to a human being.
At the end of the day, a judge or the judge's clerks is going to read this and if you create
the theme of here's a conspiracy theory against this person we're accusing of being a conspiracy
theorist, I think you lose a little rhetorical ground.
Another thing I'm looking at in it that I find curious is they've added one defendant,
so this case is filed in Connecticut, they've added one defendant who's in Connecticut.
So we've got plaintiffs in Connecticut and defendants in Connecticut and why that's important
is when you have diversity of citizenship, so you have plaintiffs and defendants from
different states and they're seeking in excess of $75,000, you have the right to remove your
case to federal court, that's something that's been enshrined in the law forever.
Now, when you put somebody who's a nominal defendant on another side of the case so that
you have defendant and plaintiffs in the same state, you lose that right.
So the concern here, I think, is that they really don't want this to get into federal
court and there's a number of reasons for that.
Federal court is perceived to be more defendant friendly, that's not to say that I have-
Sure, I mean, let's just say it, they want it in local court.
Sure, yeah, I mean, Connecticut judges are appointed for eight years and then they can
be reappointed.
So if you have something that might be a politically challenging case, you probably would prefer
it to be in state court.
I'm not saying that the judge here isn't going to make a completely above board decision,
but the reason that we put into the law this ability to remove to federal court is because
there was a perception that people might get hometowned by state court judges.
Meanwhile, a federal judge, say what you want about lifetime tenure, there are problems
with that, but one of the good things about lifetime tenure for a federal judge is they
are completely insulated from politics.
A federal judge can make whatever decision they want.
Federal three of the Constitution means the judge never has to say he's sorry.
Sure, so on the time we have left without giving away too much here about the defense
here, I mean, I think the goal here is public relations to drive me to the mud, to bring
the shooting back up for political purposes, not by the family, but by the Democrats and
by the establishment doing this.
And a lot of them admit that in the news, that that's their goal.
And then to keep saying that I'm still saying, when I never said the way they said I did
those things, they misrepresent it, they reboot it and then create the trauma.
They say I created themselves by always bringing it back up and then never saying all the apologies
or all the clarifications over the years, they just reboot the crime against humanity.
They say I committed well, you know, there is there is something called the Streisand
Effect, which means that there's no better way to bring a spotlight to statements that
you don't want to hear than to sue over it.
So yes, they've kicked the beach ball back up in the air here by suing.
As far as what this is part and parcel of, I think, you know, I think we've, when you
look at this, you know, you do have allegations in the complaint of people who really have
had their feelings hurt by one thing or another.
You can't discount that, that doesn't mean that I think it's definitely actionable.
You know, the, you have some problems in this complaint.
Look, a lot of these statements are outside the statute of limitations.
The statute of limitations in Connecticut for defamation is two years, three years for
other tours.
But it's further than that.
We've gone and pulled some of the statements up.
Some of them are not even accurate in their little snippet.
But then right after it, I'm playing devil's advocate and saying, but I don't believe that.
So this is the next level saying you can't even question or talk about what other people
are questioning.
It's like this other lawsuit against me here in Texas on this.
I'm reading a zero hedge article or Owen shroyer ish where they're questioning something
that someone said on Megan Kelly's Dateline NBC.
It's a public program.
She's saying these things, they say there's an anomaly there.
We cover zero hedge in the anomaly.
I say, no, I think kids died.
I think he held his kids and then they say that is me doing it.
It's next level in a complaint like this.
You know, in I've seen, I don't know if it's next level.
It's a very common thing to be honest.
It's, you know, throughout my career, I've seen defamation cases like this where somebody
has either motivation, either motivation to shut somebody up or simply looking for money
or actually feels genuinely wrong and is looking for the strongest legal theory possible.
So in any event, it's always a plaintiff's attorney in a defamation cases.
It's always their desire to cherry pick out the worst of the worst.
And then it's the defense attorney's job to say, Hey, wait a minute, you got to look
at what came before and after these quotes and put it all in context.
Here's the decision we have to make context always matters.
Absolutely.
So again, in person on Tuesday here in studio, Mark Rondaza, thanks for spending time with
us in 20 seconds left.
The big question is, do we launch anti slapback provisions in Texas and Connecticut?
And I think you and I talking the answers.
Yes, I would never forego the opportunity to bring a well placed anti slap motion and
Connecticut has a good anti slap law.
So, you know, that that is something that I think should be considered.
Yeah, I'm going to direct that on both.
We'll talk soon.
Thank you.
Okay.
All right.
Let's go.
We'll talk to you in a minute in studio.
That fellow that was 30 got a victim.
Watch revenge on the common housefly.
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids, 39, 95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Here's your fly swatter, get your bug assault today.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN, call or click
1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com, that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I've been using your products since the first iteration of survival shield and since then
I'm on the X2, the super male vitality, the caveman, the real red pill, micro ZX body,
it's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and
the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from m4store.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at m4store.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it, you cannot beat that
for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, m4warslife.com or triple-A2533139 and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and
they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure
deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We are Drugs Out.
We are following other people's opinions.
We are controlled by the media.
Today it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us.
It is a choice, just like what I said slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing as expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying I hate you, I hate you, f**k you, f**k you, f**k you.
How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love?
We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy motherf**kers to change something.
Steve Jobs is crazy, now we all know Steve Jobs' phones.
They say drugs crazy, they say I'm crazy, but I'm here to show love.
It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.
This is Alex Jones.
I remember when, I remember, I remember when I lost my mind, there was something so pleasant
about that place, even your emotions had an echo in so much space.
Michael Rotondo, thanks for coming in studio with us.
Thanks for having me.
I bet you have been one of the biggest stories in the United States and in other parts of
the world this week.
It's exciting.
It's not what I was, all I wanted was just to get what I asked for, what I believed justice
to be.
I didn't really want to have a turn into a media thing, but it's fine.
I understand.
In the USA today, there's the headline right there, 30-year-old man evicted by his parents.
I'm not a crazy person.
I watch, you speak at the court, I don't think you're crazy.
I think you're a little quirky, but everybody's a little quirky in ways and it's easy to get
you on here and be mean to you and say that you're a 30-year-old bum because the real
bums, the people that are on welfare and make the public pay for their abortions and for
their sex changes, that's the level above it.
Or here in Travis County where they, again, make the citizens pay for illegal aliens'
health care and abortions and things like that and illegal aliens out in California
wanting free health care and anchor babies.
And my whole issue is we're told these are wonderful, perfect angels, but in the very
same liberal media piled on some of the conservative media and called you a bum and a joke and
a slob and a delusional idiot and all these things, which if that's true, that makes all
of us even bigger morons to then at the same time, like 1984, hold it in our mind that
all these other people are entitled to free stuff.
I think that you shouldn't have people who need things like food and shelter in your
own communities.
I don't think it's something that you want.
I understand.
Just look at the red light, yeah.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Doing great.
Yeah, I don't think it's a good thing to have.
I don't think that even if it costs more, even if you raise taxes to get these people
food and housing, I don't think it's something that you would wish to forego because then
you have hungry people and crimes are going to go up.
Isn't that going to contribute to crimes, what do you think?
That's one of the historically more reasonable arguments to that equation.
So nobody wants that, nobody wants crime, no one wants to have to use a firearm and
then have themselves get attacked by the liberal media from that and then start the whole take
the guns away type of argument, which is no problem.
And you're calling yourself a conservative?
I have some very conservative views.
I have a lot of very liberal views, but I think that the founding fathers had it right
when they wrote the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
I think that if we were following it, I think that both of the ideals of conservatives and
liberals could be accommodated.
Well, Michael, here's the bottom line.
I can't go on a high horse and say you're the worst person when it comes to the whole
welfare society out there when on a scale of one to 10, you're about a three or a four
because one of the most natural ways for people to turn into dependents and to go down this
road you're on is with their parents.
And in a lot of cultures, you know, that happens or families live in big houses together, but
they all go out and work in the fields together or work in the factories and it's more of
a communal, you know, situation like the Waltons or something.
So on the other side of the equation, though, what about your parents?
If you don't have a job, what about them?
They become your slave.
If they've got to pay for the food, the electricity, the house, the transportation, I would guess
the medicine.
I mean, what about them?
What are you going to do?
Hey, that's one question.
B, what are you going to do when your parents can no longer pay for anything?
What are you going to do when they have to go to the nursing home?
Or God forbid, you know, have a stroke or heart attack or die?
I've been trying to leave the home for years and it's as a result of that, that I felt
as though I would be able to in about three months from now, which was the case, well,
the case I made was for six months because that was what.
So you agree it's a form of slavery to make them take care of you?
To make, yeah, I don't want to make them take care of me.
But they've been trying to get you out for six years?
No.
What's that coming from?
I saw that on the news.
Is that not right?
That's not right.
Do you have that handy?
On the news said that you lost your job eight years ago, six years ago, that they've been
trying to get you out for years.
Is that not true?
No, first part is true, second part falls.
So I've been there for eight years, but they've only tried to get me out since October of
this past year and they had made my first hearing of their decision for me to leave
was the February 2nd notice.
Sure.
Well, I did think the media made this all one dimensional to make fun of you and laugh
at you.
Sure.
And I also said some, you know, you know, drug toward things that I've said into your
face here, just being honest with you, because I want to have a man to man talk with you
on air and off air.
I'm tempted to offer you a job as a reporter and even get you a crew in New York, but you'd
act to actually go out and do the shoots and do the reports, you know, Howard Stern hired
interesting people.
And I think you call yourself a conservative, I think we could, I'll just say it, we could
turn you into a formidable individual, but we're going to have to have some discussions.
All right.
Now, that's New York City or New York State, but so you may have to go where we want you
to go.
That's part of being, take care of yourself, because you have to make compromises with
your employers or other people.
I just want to be able to see my son, I understand, right?
So sure, we could probably, that's how the discussion happens, but regardless, I've got
to check here for you when we come back for coming down here.
And I want to try to just explain a few things to you, which you sound like a smart guy in
certain aspects.
It is slavery if you parents are to take care of you.
Some day they won't be able to take care of you.
You're going to be more empowered in your life if you go out through a daily process
and go through trials and tribulations.
You know, if they try to grow plants in zero gravity, they don't get unmanaged is what
you're saying.
Well, but I mean, plants don't grow well in zero gravity.
That's right.
You understand on a Mars mission, on a one year Mars mission just to get there, you would
have trouble walking, even if you were in really great shape once you got there.
I'm no, I would not characterize myself as a plant.
But no, I'm explaining something to you if you don't go out and work and live your life
and go through stress, you don't become strong.
That's right.
Your brain falls apart and you become sedentary and have Alzheimer's types effects by even
age 30.
Right.
Okay.
And I've run into the kids that play with phones and TVs all day, they have that same
look in their eye that you do.
There's an intelligence there, but you are in kind of a mesmerized trance state.
You don't have a drive state going.
My heads in the clouds is what you're saying.
Your heads in the clouds.
Okay.
And you're smart, but you're not completely productive, conscious.
Okay.
And it's beyond the laziness.
It's a spirit.
It's a program.
How much TV and video games do you play and watch?
Very little.
I don't do any video games.
I've done video games a long time ago.
The television, I try to watch television because I need to stop, I need to have some
time where I stop working so that I can sleep.
I need to have some...
When are you working?
What?
I work all day, every day almost.
On what?
Law.
I have a business.
You have a business?
You have a business.
Well, then why don't you move out of your parents' house?
I'm going to move out.
I expect to be able to...
Let me ask you a question when we come back.
All right.
I got key questions for you when we come back.
Okay.
We're going to discuss this straight ahead.
We have him here.
The 30-year-old evicted, about to be evicted.
I want to find out if you've actually left yet.
On the other side, I'm Alex Jones, infowars.com, newswars.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself.
You owe it to your family.
And you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy
and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite
those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfowarsLife.com.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars
Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfowarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Years ago InfowarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better
product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com, that's InfowarsLife.com.
Memorial Day blow out special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
To help celebrate Memorial Day, we're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new
and old favorite products.
Now's the time to take advantage of these incredibly low prices of fan favorite supplements,
gear and more with free shipping while supporting the Infowar.
Super male and super female vitality, 50% off with free shipping, X2 bio true selenium
combo, 50% off with free shipping, Brainforce Plus, Alpha Power, the real red pill plus,
DNA Force Plus, Flora Life products, Immune Wall, Pollen Black, InfowarsLife selects
storeable foods, one year, six month and three month food supply, 50% off with free shipping.
Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access to exclusive store wide
deals at Infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
Michael Rotondo, one of the biggest stories in the country, 30 year old, taking his parents
to court because they're trying to kick him out of the house and he wants more time.
We're going to find out if he's actually out now because I guess it was like two days
ago, the judge ruled this, he's here with us in Austin, Texas, in studio and look,
this is how capitalism works, my friend.
I said, I will pay you $1,000 just to come on, just so you get a little bit of money
and hopefully learn how to make your own money and go out and be free and have your own life,
your own life.
I know you've been married before.
I've been married before.
Or have a child.
Right.
The point is, is that here's $3,000, my friend, so that you can hopefully get on your own
feet.
I can and this means a lot to me and you're keeping me off the street with us.
Well, listen, I appreciate it.
I can't sit here and, you know, just put you down and call your names and I've said a few
smart now things, but again, what I'm getting in here is the globalist is the social engineers.
They want to make us all dependent.
They've set up a culture and a system that is trying to arrest our development and it
is electronically programming our brains to put us into a type of artificial Asperger's
type state, but not an Asperger's state where people are even able to carry out tasks.
It's a spectrum and it's electromagnetic and it's mainstream news now that this is
happening and our embassy staff are getting hit with it at, you know, amped up rates.
The cell phone radiation is causing heart problems, brain damage, a doubling brain tumors
just with the old three and four G. And so what I'm telling you is I can't sit here and
judge you wanting to be with your parents, having some type of psychological, you know,
baby thing where you don't want to leave.
I can't analyze the whole deal, but I'm telling you, this won't go well for you down the road.
If you continue to not make yourself go out and live on your own and reach out, just the
idea of doing everything kind of OCD, you know, in exact little ways, the way you want
to get it done.
And then people catering to that is going to put you into a smaller and smaller box
in my view.
I'm not a psychiatrist and psychologist.
I'm just a student of the street and live, so I wanted to actually humanize you, but
also tell you, I think your parents are doing the right thing, giving you a swift kick in
the old ass.
That would be reasonable.
I think I would say that maybe they should have served me a six month notice to quit
and then I'd be out in six months and they wouldn't have had to pay a penny in legal
fees and I'd be out just as you had represented that you thought was a good idea.
What did you think of some of the liberal professors and people saying, oh, you have
a right to stay?
Well, then do I have a right to just go knock on somebody's door and say, they got to take
care of me?
This idea, take care of me, take care of me.
You know what happens at the park?
If you feed the squirrels and you feed the wildlife, they become obese, greedy, hateful, and stupid.
And that's what they say.
They don't feed the animals at the park.
Here's where that opinion may come from.
The February 2nd notice was a threat to basically commit a crime according to the real property
law of New York State where you cannot all of a sudden lock someone out without a court
proceeding.
So that may be taken from that where it's believed that you go to the court.
I say what I said to the judge, which is that this notice is against the law and they were
threatening to commit a crime and it was harassment and the judge could respond to that by penalizing
my parents and saying, listen, you know, I'm a genius.
But they left you five notices and even offered cash to help you get your new home.
Right.
But that doesn't change the fact that it requires about six months to make it so you can support
your kids.
But listen, bottom line, do parents, when their child is, I think biologically twice
the age pass when they should be out of the house, they keep arresting development more
and more and more.
I mean, you know, like you read wagon wheels, which is based on a true story, you know,
it's like former slave family and they got their little seven, eight, nine year olds
marching a hundred miles with a map that daddy drew to say, meet me there.
They made it there.
I already thought about my frontier families and stuff.
It was the same kind of stuff.
I mean, you have people, skinning bucks, running trot lines, but they were 10 years old and
now look at us, they're saying the new 18 is 35.
I'm sure you've seen those headlines where there's this whole culture, Austin is filled
with people like you.
Really?
Yeah.
But they just live off welfare.
They work one day a week.
It's their religion.
But then they think I've got to pay more taxes so that they can, you know, sit around and
smoke dope all day.
Well, one thing I have to say in response to that is that I think that it's important
that people are trying to, you know, to grow themselves.
And it sounds like these people you're describing are not trying to do that.
And from that, there would be more opportunity because there'd be more businesses.
So I, you know, and it talks about, speaks to what you were saying before about how
people are sort of brought into this sedentary lifestyle where they just, yeah, and I'm
saying you're really common.
You're not this, this.
I'm not that.
Well, I'm saying what we're discussing here is super garden variety.
It's the trend.
Okay.
It's not the exception.
It's the trend.
Okay.
It's growing.
And most people that are like this act just like you.
They're usually witty in ways.
They're smart.
They have little comebacks.
They have all the little ways of doing things.
And I think it's a gross form of selfishness.
You're calling me a millennium.
Well, you are.
All right.
I am a millennial.
I will admit that.
But, uh, but what is it with millennials?
I mean, I'm not bragging, bro, but when I was 11, I was, I'm not gonna even get into
it all.
The point is, I'll tell both ways.
Yeah.
Well, by the time I was 12, I was all intensive purposes had done the things men do.
Okay.
Then in a bunch of fights already been with women, whole nine yards, look like I was 16.
I was 16.
Look like I was 20 something.
I was 21 already on the radio 22 syndicated.
I'm 44 now.
I'm not saying that great of a person.
My dad was going in an apprenticeships and factories and stuff when he was 10, his, his,
his, his great uncle went, ran away from home when he was 11 and jumped on us on a steamboat
and went to China and all around the world and came back.
And then was the, you know, one of the biggest, uh, you know, runners of liquor in Houston.
Would he have done that?
I mean, take Shane Stoner, my buddy's great grandfather who died at like 102 Buck Stoner.
He ran the Dixie Mafia in Texas.
Okay.
Oh, the whole nine yards.
By the time he was like 30 years old.
All right.
But I'm just saying, man, how do people become like this?
How do you not want to go out and do something?
What is that?
The, your, your uncle hit the, uh, hop on the train and went off that way.
My dad's great uncle.
Your dad's great.
I'm saying they were all like that.
Right.
Cause they felt they're like 11 years old in the middle of the countryside in these
Texas.
I'm gone.
They were raised to be capable.
Yeah.
Not like today.
Okay.
So how were you raised?
Uh, I wouldn't really characterize myself as having been raised necessarily.
It was moral.
It was more or less.
I had to, you know, fend for myself in a lot of ways, uh, in that, in that environment
where in for yourself and your parents house, I mean, did your parents abuse you?
Well, I would respond to that right now, but, um, I would say that, uh, I had to figure
out things for myself.
If I wanted to achieve something, I had to figure out how I was or was not going.
Were you a latchkey kid?
I don't know what that means.
Did your parents like leave you at home all day by yourself?
I was on my own, uh, most of the day.
Let me ask you this question real quick.
We appreciate you being here.
Sure.
Um, how, how are you doing right now?
Are you still at home with your parents?
Yeah.
Tell us about that.
Uh, it's, it's weird.
Um, there was, uh, there's only two instances.
It was basically normal and then, but people have asked me questions and I realized it's
a little different.
My, my father, uh, the day of the judgment, the day the judgment, uh, came down.
I was in the house.
I was in the kitchen at the same time as they were, and my father and I tried to occupy
the same pace, uh, the same space at the same time.
And I said, excuse me, because I was just being, you know, reasonable person, just,
you know, um, and he said, no, Michael will not excuse you.
And I, I just, I didn't say anything.
And I, I, I think to myself, you know, what was he trying to achieve with that?
What was that for?
And, um, from that, I, uh, that, that, that was new.
It was new for there to be a sort of a, a line in the sand all of a sudden.
Wow.
So your parents got a little cold with you.
I would say, I would say provocative of a confrontation.
Well, when you start getting old, you really want to do things the way you want to do them.
And it would be, if I was 60 something years old, how old are your parents?
60 something years old, 61.
I mean, and I had a son going around that was dressed like cousin, it, I'd get pissed
off and tell him, get the hell out of the house.
I can't wait to get out of there.
And by the way, I like your beard in here.
I was just doing a cheap shot there.
The beard goes when I get my, I look like a pumpkin head.
So it's, it's all right.
You look very.
No, I don't.
Anyways, my wife says I do.
I don't think so.
Hey, hey, but seriously, seriously, when are you going to get out now?
I am considering that I can have, well, it depends on how many hands I have to help me
because I've had some people offer to help me.
But it's basically getting my stuff to, well, you just got $3,000.
I get, yeah, I get the things out of there and put them in another, another place and
then three, but the $3,000, you can't have that much stuff.
We're talking, you know, 300, 400 bucks.
I'm moving company.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to do it myself.
I'm going to save.
I have until.
Chief, everyone isn't operating on your time table, bro.
I haven't until January 1st.
You're telling me I gotta get up sooner or June, June 1st, June 1st.
Yeah.
I'm going to just try to put your email out or something.
Maybe our listeners want to help.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, help to move your stuff.
Don't put my name there.
There might be a girl out there.
Things are pretty handsome.
That's not going to help me.
The weightlifter ones is one of those really strong girls that can.
Hey folks, we got free shipping on all the big top items, 50% off.
on a bunch of the best sellers, including the Real Red Pill Plus, now with Enhanced Energy,
InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLife.com. I need your support.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With InfoWars Life Select's storable food,
you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals
in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy,
easy, and incredible meals, including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. InfoWars Life Select's
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved one's trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select's storable foods.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home,
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWars Life
has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line, Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
available in one ounce, three and a half ounce, and 16 ounce bottles. Immune Gargle is perfect for
the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist
recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand
purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel
surrounded by toxins. With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver
Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative. With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
staying toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy
with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
News, analysis, reports. It's the Alex Jones Show.
Well, I think Michael Rotondo is eccentric. That was the old word they had from smart people
that are quirky and a little weird. And of course, I've now been talking to him during the breaks
and he told about his interest. And I have to tell you, my friends, it is Ashburgers type
spectrum classic things. And you tell me like machines, you like numbers, you like engineering,
you like just to watch machines for hours on YouTube every day. And that's fine. That's actually,
I think, a form of advanced intelligence. But if people don't know how to shuttle you into the
thing you need to be doing, then you'll just kind of spin your wheels forever. Because there's some
people that are virtuosos with music, some people are virtuosos with physical prowess,
some people are virtuosos when it comes to oratory, some people are virtuosos when it
comes to being psychic, you understand? But then there's other people that are just their brains
kind of get caught in the little technical minutiae offense, which is fine. There's jobs
for that. And there's fulfillment for that. You're saying I'm an employable person is what you're
saying. Well, repeat what you told me earlier, what you like to do. I like to go on YouTube,
I like to watch machinery, I like to watch what I'm watching and watching what the engineers
have designed and engineered and built to be efficient and functional and productive.
Okay, then have you gone out and gotten the models and things and built your own things
or modified them? I've done some things like that. Okay, well, why don't you then go to
like a radio, television, electronics, you know, type schools, they have those. A lot of those
places actually get you really good jobs. I mean, a bunch of people like you.
That that's too monotonous. I like working with people.
Well, no, they're going to be people involved. That's the whole point.
I think I don't think I don't think I could do engineering in an office all day.
Okay, I could do design. Hey, Pete Zaria chain offers job a 30 year old New York man evicted
my parents. Can you send me that link because I had someone refer me to that today. They
haven't connected me to it. So you'd rather that's nice for them off your job because
but at the same time, you don't want a job as somebody doing technical work without the degree
in engineering. Probably not. It depends. I mean, I really it depends what you're what exactly
the job description is. I mean, there's engineers, there's people who design.
Do you have any friends?
Sort of not close friends. I don't really have any close friends.
You have to get out of the house. Just you need to go out and get out of the house. Yes.
I need to socialize. Yes. Your parents are trying.
See, there's always been people like you. You're a good guy. All right.
There's all different types of people. The internet and computers are allowing people to plug
into this virtual reality. And every metric and every statistics says it's destroying people.
Netflix is making the population growth rate go down. People aren't having sex because of Netflix.
Humanity is dying. Our IQs are lowering. We're in a mesmerized state. You need to come out of it.
Come on. Michael, you can do it. Come on. You can do it. You understand you don't have to be in
this other place. You can be here now. It's an entire universe right there waiting for you.
Have you ever run around in the mountains at night with a full moon?
When it's about 30 degrees up, your shirt off? I've done some things like that.
Stuff like that. That's how you wake up and recharge. You need to not just be hiding in your house.
You run around on mountain tops at night with a full moon with your shirt off at 30 degrees.
Not exactly that. Okay. That's what I do for entertainment. But the point is,
is that you need to do things like that. I need to run around like a lunatic.
Yes. I don't think that's going to help my case.
But you know, it is lunatic. Lunacy. Really? You've been programmed by the modern system.
You need the real lunacy. Gee, I'm crazy. So I can't go nuts.
I got you. You need to go. I'm serious. You need to break out of those little norms,
those little areas, those little back eddies that you're in, and you need to come out of it.
I think that's happening. I think it is.
That's a ridiculous photo of me. Anyways. Oh boy, infowars.com, newswars.com.
Michael Rotondo is here, and he's got $3,000 in a free plane ticket down here,
and he's already jumping back on the plane back to New York. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
If you needed more proof that Amazon's Alexa device is nothing more than glorified spy tech,
a family in Portland, Oregon claims the device allegedly recorded their private conversations
and then sent the audio files to a random person in the family's contact list. When they received
a phone call from one of the husband's employees saying, unplug your Alexa devices right now,
you're being hacked, the family thought it was a joke, until the employee was able to
recount details of their private conversation. The employee told them that he received audio files
of recordings from inside the house. The family's entire house was connected to Amazon devices
that controlled the heat, lights, and security system. Danielle, who is understandably asked
the local news station to keep her last name anonymous at this point, said at first she
and her husband thought it was a joke. After listening to the recorded files for herself,
Danielle admitted feeling invaded, saying, I'm never plugging that device in again because
I can't trust it. Leigh Ann McAdoo, infowars.com.
Rallying Patriots Worldwide in Defense of Human Liberty. It's Alex Jones.
This old dude is facing an eviction threat from his own parents. That's just so ridiculous.
Michael Ratondo's mom and dad are so fed up, they're suing to get him out of the house.
I don't see why the judge wants to throw people out on the street. His parents followed the
extraordinary lawsuit following months of repeated attempts to get him to leave their
home in Syracuse, New York. And the story is getting lots of attention. A judge asked why he
didn't just move in with his girlfriend. And the man said, girlfriend, I'm a 30 year old man
living at home. Dude, there's no girlfriend. Michael Ratondo is here. But you know, something
happened to you. You went out years ago, I guess 2022. I'm at the timeline here. You had a baby
with a woman. It's your child, a boy or girl. Boy. And how old is your son? He's eight.
Well, he needs you. And he needs you in case something happened to the mom or whatever,
to be self-sufficient so that you can take care of him until he's 18.
I would actually support him until he found something that suited him.
But what if something never suits you? That's a good question. I thought about that. And I thought
that, you know, Donald Trump had some pretty wives before. And Melania, though, was a whole
another universe. So but he hadn't run into Melania yet. Melania wasn't born yet when Trump got his
first wife. So see, if you would, you didn't see, you have to get while the getting's good, son.
Okay. You're telling me to get, I gotta get some kind of commitment out of a woman now
while I have a chance. Hey, look at Troyer. Look at the smile on Troyer. Bring him up right now.
Can we punch that up? Troyer, that's a guy afraid to get out and do anything.
Oh, and I don't want to be mean to this guy, but he, we're at the media acts like he's so rare,
nobody looks down their nose at it. This guy is the future right here on the course we are.
And I'm trying to give him money, trying to get him a job. I'm like, Hey, you want to be a reporter
for us? I'm serious. And if you just do some basic stuff and get better and better, you can be really
successful with us, but you got to go out and do it. It sounds like a, it sounds like I can do a
lot of good with that. Do what must be done Lord Vader. Show no mercy. I'm not a Star Wars fan.
I'm not. I'm a Palpatine fan. Oh, you didn't know I'm Palpatine's my spirit animal? No,
they overlooked that when they were making me out. I'm Palpatine is my co-pilot. Okay.
I don't know what that is. I'm Palpatine's my boyfriend. I thought you had a wife.
I said my spirit. It's a joke. Okay. Hi. It's a joke. Ian McDermott. Okay. The actor. He's hilarious.
Emperor Palpatine is a comic genius. You know that. Oh, Troyer, you want to say something to
this great American? You, they're a big veteran show coming up today. Yeah, I'm looking forward to
that. And we're going to be talking about that here in just a minute in studio, but I actually had
a couple of questions for Michael. You know, we're about the same age. So I figured I had,
I could ask him a couple of questions. How old are you, Owen? I'm 28. You got your degree in
psychology. You're a Jedi synth, Lord. I just want to know, because one of my, I mean, when I was
younger, one of my biggest causes to want to get out of the house was so that, you know, I could
have like a girl over. So I'm just curious, how do you, do you, do you even try to attempt to get
women anymore? I was thrown out of the house into the parents house. I was thrown out of the house
because my mom did not like this old girlfriend. And when that girlfriend old Cindy, smart mouth,
my mom in the kitchen, my mom had me thrown out in two days. She said, David, get him out of here.
But so I could kind of think of her being smart mouth, my mom, I might still be there,
huh? Sorry, sorry. Oh, and ask your question again. I remember what it was. It would be nice
to know if you want, though. No, so I'm just kidding. I mean, do you, do you even attempt to
meet women anymore? Or have you given up? Or do you bring women in the house? No,
I don't bring anyone in the house. Okay. You're a time, I don't have time to
refresh my eyes with women really. Okay. So, but you know what you said that earlier, you also said
that you are, do you have a law degree? No. So what you said you do legal work. So what legal
work? Oh, and, oh, and you've got a degree in psychology. Does this guy not act like he's got
Ash Burgers with a helping of laziness? Well, I'm not a doctor. I don't see what you've got to do.
But I don't, I mean, I don't, I don't know. It's a nature versus a nurture argument. Then it doesn't
seem like it's the nurture. What if you had the vaccine or the food or something? I don't know.
What if you had to get, if you had to pick one, if you had to say, Asperger's or no,
what would you pick? Well, I think your Asperger's spectrum undoubtedly is by all of it. But then
you've got the overlay of the, of the environment that is induced towards the Zambiosis. What if
I'm just a regular guy? What if it's a lazy bum? Maybe you are just a bum. A contrarian bum that
will never get the perfect thing you really want. Oh, go ahead. Sorry. Well, I'm just trying,
I'm just trying to figure out, is it a comfort thing? Like, if you really want me to answer that
question, I mean, like, why do you want to live at home? Like, what is the deal with that? Why
don't you want to get out? I don't want to live at home. What I've, what I've told other reporters
is that when I, when I had my son, he was a baby and I had him three full days a week, two week,
full weekdays and one weekend day. And it was really hard for me to find full-time employment
like that. Wait a second. Hold on a second. This is blowing my mind. You're a white male.
You're an effing white man. White people don't know what it's like to be poor.
What? It's obviously an inside joke that you haven't heard yet, but apparently, you know,
white man has the white man privilege. So you're telling me you can't get a job
so that you can move out of the house. That's what you're telling me. I didn't say that. I said
that it wasn't really, I didn't have a lot of opportunities with all those days that I was,
you know, being a father to my son, which was important and necessary. But do you have visiting
rights right now? No. So what are you so busy with that? I'm still trying to figure this out.
Trying to get to see him again. That's what I've been for a long time.
So you're battling with the courts and with lawyers right now?
Just the courts. Oh yeah, and lawyer. Yeah, courts and lawyers. You're exactly right.
Okay. Don't you think it might be advantageous for you to maybe like get some money behind
this effort and maybe hire a lawyer? I, it's not going to change the merit of my intentions.
Yeah, but it might help you, don't you think? I mean, this is a court of law.
How would that out just by, by saying the magic words?
I mean, dude, if you don't know how the judicial system works, clearly you don't.
Well, let me tell you, my ex-wife took the kids and said and filed up where I only have them
four hours on the weekend and I went and got lawyers and went and had a big court battle and,
you know, got my kids half the time. Have you ever been on your own, Michael?
Have you ever been out of the parents' house? I have.
And what was that like for you? Did you, did you not like it?
No, I loved it. It was great. You know, you're very busy all the time. You got to work, you know.
I think you should take up
something like kickboxing or something athletic. Are you engaged in any athletic pursuits?
I like to bicycle. Oh, it's you. Ride my bicycle.
Another Bernie Sanders favorite. Is it? Is he around?
How would you like, how would you like to be Bernie Sanders assistant?
Probably wouldn't like to assist someone else.
Ah, I just figured because he wants to take care of everybody that's poor and then he's helped,
so I think he should give you a job. But you're not going to have any leftist
actually offer anybody jobs. That's conservatives that do that. Are you breastfed?
I don't remember. That's actually very important because the fatty acids in natural breast milk
give you your brain a lot more power to develop than the formula.
Yeah, well, I mean, the brain will actually weigh 10 to 15% less, have a lot less neuron density.
So let me ask Michael, how old is your child? Eight. Eight. So you had that child at age 22?
That's right. And so for eight years, you've been fighting for custody? I mean, how does this go?
Well, when he was a baby, I really, I really wasn't feasible for me to work full time.
After he started going to school. It's never feasible for you to work full time. You know,
I don't think anybody would like to work full time. You know, everybody would like to just
retire or live in someone's house. But I mean, not me. I want to work 24 hours a day.
I was, I had lost my job prior to that. I was fired. I was a little frustrated with employment.
But after I had my son, after I was a father for a little while, I found that I had
the gift that public schools offer us, which is, you know, the time to work with our kids
kept taking care of at school. And I found that I could see the WikiLeaks where Hillary said,
I hate my constituents. They're a bunch of basement dwellers. And they're a bunch of
idiot baristas. Well, a lot of baristas, a lot of baristas that live really good lives. But that's
who she thinks her, her people are. And they're all folks that can't get out of their parents'
basement because the economy is so bad in their area. And the family decides that live together.
So they can have extra money. And that's kind of a smart thing. If the family decides to live
together in, you know, in a post industrial economy, I don't put people down to live with
their parents. If the family works together or a lot of folks take care of their parents.
I'm putting down the fact that you, like so many other millennials and trendies,
don't have any aspirations for life in the world, except politically running my life.
You don't have the whole liberal control free contingent though. So you're a little bit different.
But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor or being able to afford
needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge. Control your own
healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs. Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now
by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Today at ReadyToEatBacon.com. ReadyToEatBacon.com.
877-886-3653. GoBurkey.com. You have been lied to. My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated
CIA officer. Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best
ex-Mose on the shadow government ever. We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now
being run and ruled by a shadow government. We've got to get this out because just because
you're awake folks doesn't mean other people aren't. This is critical to get to read and give
the library to give you the courage to get them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive
Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape
in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today. Alex Jones here with
an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to
fight the globalist and live in a free society. Several years ago I set out with top formulators
in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido,
workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this myself the last few months and from
seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well. This is a gift you want to give
yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win,
no lose equation. Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and
it's made in the USA. Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha
Power today. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You found it, the Temple of Spear. I'm Alex Jones and Michael Ratondo, the 30-year-old who refused
to move out of his parents' house. They'd taken to court. The judge said, yeah, you got to get out.
Liberal media, conservative media made fun of him and said, what a bum, what a horrible person.
I was talking to Owen Shroyer during the break and I said, what is your prognosis?
You're a smart guy and I talked to some of the other folks in there and they pretty much all
came up with the same conclusion that I have in my heart. I think it's this. Owen, give us your take.
Well, I think that you've just never had anybody really empower you. You've never felt that anyone
has had faith in you or trust in you so you've never felt the inclination to make more of yourself
because you don't feel like anyone's ever believed in you and when I saw that moment when Alex handed
you the check but also talked about maybe hiring you, there was an emotion that I think came over
you and I saw it in your face that it felt like for the first time somebody was willing to invest in
you and that was empowering for you to have that feeling that somebody is willing to stick their
neck out there for you and invest in you and I think for a lot of people that's all it takes
sometimes. It's just that little push of somebody having faith in you and investing in you that
gives you- By the way, the globalists, believe everybody's already done, so they're trying to
dump people down to control them to then depopulate and that's what this whole anti-man, anti-woman
agenda is. They admit in the WikiLeaks and the government documents the whole gay agendas about
that. I'm not bashing gay people. That's always happened. That's always been there but the
artificiality pushing it is about depopulation and so people are going into these Asperger's type
things that are artificial from the programming, from the television, from the internet and we're
hypocrites. We're on this thing too. That's how we're reaching people but I'm telling you,
I see this in more and more young people. I know you are 30 but I'm seeing this in a lot of males
especially who don't thrive in the outside world. People don't have barbecues or outside at night
like when I was a kid, people were still outside most of the time. Maybe we watch a Saturday night
movie or cartoons on Saturday morning or there was a big event turned on the news but we were
outside. We were doing things, baseball, football, fist fights, kissing with girls behind the bleachers
going fishing, all that stuff. That's all gone now and I'm saying you are very common.
You are not this, look at the biggest bomb in the world. You are just one permutation of the
sickness. Owen? Well I'll just say this and if there's anybody else that wants to talk to Michael
here. I think you're right Alex. I think this is a common issue and it's different than the
government just saying, oh here's a check or welfare or a hand up or everything. That doesn't
really empower you. That doesn't really influence you. That makes you want to get more comfortable
whereas if a person invests in you, now you're answering to them and there's an actual human
experience there. There's a bonding experience there that can make a man a man. I think that
that's the big difference here and I think that this is just something that a lot of people lack.
They don't have leadership. They don't, whether it's in a family or in school or whatever it is,
they just don't have somebody that's willing to invest in them and I'll just say this in closing,
you know, I don't know what you think the best options are right now for you to get your kid back
but I would say your best option is to work your tail off and get a great job and yeah,
make some money, get your own home and then the judge will be back.
We're going to keep it in here for one episode. One more segment when Sawman comes on with you
when we're plugging your big veteran special. It's coming up today on The War Room and Sawman,
former Navy SEAL patriot. His body just got a congressional medal honor yesterday. Pretty big
deal show. We're going to be breaking all that down and headed into Memorial Day but a great
point, Sawman. And again, Jeff at any time, Michael, again, the man that's 30 years old,
being evicted from his parents' house in court this week. He just tuned in and let's bring in
Daria or let's bring in Jake Lloyd or let's bring in any other folks that want to get on there.
Well, I want to answer his question. What he said was, you know, that he alluded to the fact that
he believed that I had never had someone who believed in me and that's not true. I've had
grade school teachers who've believed in me. I think everyone has had that but I don't think
it happens enough. And I think that a lot of what you're speaking to with the things that you wish,
you know, things that you wish would change comes from the schools. Well, you need to not,
here's the deal, you need to not procrastinate. You need to let yourself be in other organizations
and not at the top and learn that if you just execute and innovate, you'll be moved to the top
immediately. All right. But people are looking for people who will just do what they're told,
understand the information and then move up in the hierarchy of things. And you'll find what you
move up in the hierarchy of things that it's actually a big responsibility. But it does
advance your mental clarity, understanding as you learn how to deal with more responsibility,
more stress, you understand? Yeah. And that's what the whole hierarchy needs in life is about.
And it's about ascending to the level of where you actually want to then help others,
like your son, what you want to do. So you aspire to that is not helping my son. I know,
but you have to sacrifice and not do things the way you want them every time to get in the
position to get your son back. Maybe. No. Without sacrifice, there's nothing, my friend. Let's
bring Jake Lloyd in and Drew wants to get in whoever else. Yeah. So I guess what I'm wondering
is where is your motivation? Like, did you ever have any dreams when you're a kid? Did you have
any motivation or anything? Because I guess it doesn't make a lot of sense to me. I joined the
army at 17. I got out. I'm working here now. I'm 21 years old. And I feel like I'm not motivated
enough because I measure up, I measure myself against people in the past, like Teddy Roosevelt,
people who are doing great things in the past. Yeah. And I'm doing what I'm doing now. It's good,
but it's not that. So I don't, I guess I'm just curious, where is your motivation in life?
And if it's to get your son back, what are you doing to get him back? Because you say,
oh, he's incredibly important to me. He's all that I, you know, the biggest thing in my life,
but that doesn't seem to be true because you're not acting that out in your life.
I've been going through a very arduous and costly and time consuming legal process to try and get
him back based on the fact that I was entitled to get him back, not based on the fact that
that I need to have a job. You do need a job. You do need a job. People need it. People need
income. Yeah. You described on air in an offer that the court basically found you incompetent.
That is a reasonable characterization of what happened. Yeah. Because it is incompetent. If
you won't get out of your parents' house at 30, it isn't competent. If you won't do the things
it takes to get stuff done. I mean, that's not fair to the kid. That's not fair to your kid at
all. If you're going to not have a job, if you're going to live at your parents' house, I mean,
that's not raising him properly. And I'm trying to jump on you here, man. I'm trying to help you.
All right. Have you ever been in a physical fight? Yeah. I'm not saying that's a great thing. That's
generally a lot of folks. It happens to a lot of people. How old were you? Which time? I'm just
seeing if you've lived any. Have I lived any? Yes. Yeah. All right. Great points, Jake, Lloyd.
Let's bring in the next question. Who wants to get in here for next? Oh, can y'all hear me? I'm
on. I can hear you great. We're going to hold you over. Start your question. So I'm naturally lazy
as well. But with that being said, I'm almost 30 now, done a lot of stuff with my life. So
what I'm really asking you is what has, besides your kid, what has been your biggest achievement
since you've been an adult? I have not considered anything like that.
My biggest achievement? What's that? You haven't considered anything an achievement since then?
No, I haven't considered what my, I'm trying to think of one thing that I would consider to be an
achievement and I'm having a hard time. That seems to be a problem. Yeah, that's a bad sign.
Stay there, Drew. I'll tell you your achievement. What? You finally started to fight when they kicked
your ass out of the nest, which is the beginning of how they're trying to help you and now you're
on it for us. Because I'm a slacker? Or was I a slacker? Well, here's the deal. We're going to
transform you from slacker man to super hair man. We'll be back. Stay well. Get the ultimate knife
at an ultimate price. The Fox Karambit knife, finally available in the US. The Fox Karambit knife
opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense, and for way
less than other knives of this caliber. Go to theultimateknife.com. Truly the best knife you
will ever own and only available at theultimateknife.com. Use promo code radio and check out for
free shipping. Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at theultimateknife.com.
Fellow patriots, my name is Todd Savage, founder of BlackRifleRealEstate.com. Like you,
I was a prisoner of the Outleft Sanctuary State until one day I chose to lead my family to freedom.
Today we live on a sustainable 20-acre homestead where we shoot, hunt, garden,
and homeschool our children without the tyranny of the nanny state looking over us. If you're
ready to flee the city to the freedom of Idaho or Montana, our BlackRifle Real Estate team is here
to help. Go to BlackRifleRealEstate.com. That's BlackRifleRealEstate.com.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
To help celebrate Memorial Day, we're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new and old
favorite products. Now's the time to take advantage of these incredibly low prices of fan favorite
supplements, gear, and more with free shipping while supporting the InfoWare. Supermale and
Superfemale Vitality, 50% off with free shipping. X2, BioTrue Selenium Combo, 50% off with free
shipping. Brain Force Plus, Alpha Power, The Real Red Pill Plus, DNA Force Plus, Floralife
Products, Immune Wall, Pollen Black. InfoWare's life selects durable foods one year, six month,
and three month food supply, 50% off with free shipping. Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter
to gain VIP access to exclusive store-wide deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
Join the fight for freedom. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of
storable meals is crucial. With InfoWare's life select storable food, you can make sure you and
your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging
from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible
meals. Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup, and a variety of other
meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. InfoWare's life selects storable food will help you eat
comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go,
and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food
you need for an affordable price with InfoWare's life selects storable foods.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful Pregnant alone formula. Now with an added energy
boost. Now you can support your heart, brain, and aging process with an added natural energy boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate
leaf extract, and more. Pair it with the powerful ingredients in the original Real Red Pill formula.
The Real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick-me-up to get you
through the day. The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind
and body. Don't miss out on the all-new upgrade to your favorite product. Head to InfoWareStore.com
and get the Real Red Pill Plus today. Get Real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, Craig Shroyer. I just crossed their names. Owen Shroyer and Sawman is also here with us
today. So there's so much to get to, so much to go over. There's going to be a veteran special today
that they're going to have for three hours. Owen Shroyer and Craig Shroyer. That's like saying
she shucked she-shells by the sea shore. I'm having trouble saying it. Both names are easy to say,
but when you say them combined together, it gets a little hard. So Owen Shroyer and Craig Sawyer,
veterans call in special show ahead of Memorial Day this Monday. A voice for our veterans,
what's happening in the VA, what they think of Trump, all the things that are happening,
the good, the bad, and the ugly. That's at 3 p.m. today and about an hour and a half from now.
Please tell everybody about infowars.com, forward slash show. Please share the link
for folks and please tell people about the local radio and TV stations that you're tuning into.
We'll be talking to Craig and Owen in the next segment about what's coming up in the war room
today. Roger Stone's also supposed to pop in right now, but I may just do that in the first
five minutes of the next hour, just to point out that he's now been told by the Mueller people,
yeah, it's not Russiagate. We're looking at your finances to put your ass in prison,
and you better, they've telegraphed, you better turn your back on the president. And Giuliani
went on Fox and said, they know Roger's not going to do that. Roger told me last night and he said
today on the news that he's not turning his back because there's nothing to turn his back on. There's
nothing been done, nothing illegal, nothing wrong, no nothing. And so Craig, talking to you, your
buddy also just won the Congressional Medal of Honor yesterday from the same team that you were on.
I guess his nickname, SLAB, you're going to be breaking that down as well. So tell us what's
coming up. Well, yeah, Britt Slabinski was on my sniper crew for years in the SEAL teams. He's a
great guy and he got the Medal of Honor yesterday from the president. It was an ugly battle and
a lot of heartache there. And I know SLAB didn't even want the award. He's been awarded heavily
prior to that. And he's a warrior in every sense of the word. And he's reluctant recipient of that
award due to the brothers left that we lost in that battle. But that's a nature of battle.
It's imperfect. SLAB is a great warrior. And but it's good to see him recognize and all the guys
at that level really deserve to be recognized for it. Great warriors defending our homeland
against the unthinkable. So God bless them all. I know on air you'll really never talk about any
of the operations you've been part of, obviously, because that's all classified. And are we even
able to know the specifics of why you got the Congressional Medal of Honor? Yeah, they talked
through the citation live on national television. The president actually read it.
So we're going to re-air that today coming up during the war room. We'll find that and air
that because that's important. Yeah, man. Yeah, those guys deserve to be recognized. And SLAB
deserves to be recognized for his contributions on the field of battle there. Just amazing stuff.
Now let's juxtapose that, not in the mean way. I'm sure you heard of Michael
Ratondo, the 30-year-old that wouldn't get out of his parents' house?
Only briefly, I've been quite busy running our operations for the children, Alex. So I get
glimpses of the news. And that's what we'll talk about next segment. Boy, it's Trump and you guys
and everybody really delivering. There are just massive pedophile roundups going on, but we can't
get into it all. The numbers are out there like eight, nine times the previous number under Obama.
And the left's really panicking and more and more of this is coming out. But that's definitely
panicking the globalists right now. Yeah. Well, there's a massive struggle for power over the
United States. We see it getting more desperate on the left, on the globalist side, as Trump makes
more progress and gets his footing as Commander-in-Chief of the United States and starts exposing
more of the truth. The globalists and the radical left are getting more and more desperate. So it's
interesting. These are interesting times, highly contested. So we'll stand by and watch.
We're breaking it down here in a few minutes. Finishing up, and I'm going to do a special
broadcast with you later. I'm really trying to find out why you and so many other millennials
are so timid, afraid to leave the house, lazy. I'm not trying to be mean, but
we've got Dru and some of the other folks have questions for it. And great. You respond back
at anyone. Alex, you don't mind? Sure. Can I interject? I would just encourage him. Look,
if you love somebody, you want to, you want them empowered. Man, I teach my son everything that I
can and look at, take a little league football team. Man, they train those boys hard. Why? Because
they want them to be prepared to win or to perform well during the game. And we all want that for
our kids, man. And so sometimes love, if you really care about somebody, you want them empowered.
And growth is always difficult. It's, it's, it's sometimes painful, but it's beneficial.
So I would, I would encourage this guy. Hey, look, yep, he, his life has been what it has
been until now, but before him lies unlimited potential. And I would say push through the
discomfort of growing into a more responsible man and going for, uh, for his better self.
Exactly. Cause I saw the media just put him down and calling names and I'm trying to kick
him in the butt to get him thinking, but if you look at how I have to pay for all the illegal
aliens and all the anchor babies and, and, and, you know, uh, for people sex changes,
that's far more lazy and bad than him. So then how is he the worst guy in America is basically
what they said this week. And then they ignore all the rest of the stuff. He becomes a scapegoat.
I'm not saying you're a victim. I'm just saying on a scale of laziness, you're kind of in the middle.
You're not the worst guy. It sounds reasonable. Um, I wanted to answer a question I got earlier
where, uh, someone asked me what my greatest accomplishment was. And it's my belief that
I've raised a child who is smarter than I was besides your son. Oh, besides that,
yeah, besides your son, what has been your greatest achievement since you turned 18?
Oh, that's, that's what I prepared is the answer for that.
You prepared it. Yeah. Well, that's the problem. It took you that long through the break to think
of one though. How am I supposed to come in before the break? Okay. Well, without that,
would you say that your life has been fulfilling? Yeah. And, and what way being as though you haven't,
you can't even find out what you've achieved. You can't even answer what you've achieved.
How do you feel fulfilled? I feel like I, uh, can accomplish what I, what I seek to,
or if I can't accomplish what I, what I was attempting to, I've, you know, made accomplishments
in order to get there. Well, listen, I'm not trying to put you down. Um, thanks, Drew. Let's
bring Dari on. Let's make her get on here. Cause I know she's had some comments. She didn't want
to get on here, but she said she did earlier. Did Dari get over here? Cause I'm not trying to be
mean to you. You've got to get out of the comfort zone. Like he said, and just do little things,
just get a job. Well, I just think Alex, you said something. That's not Dari. She refuses to go,
she refuses to go on. I think that Alex was right though. Michael, your greatest accomplishment
was this, this legal battle with your parents to live at home or not live at home. You finally
fought that was it. That's, that's, that this is going to be the moment in your, in your life
that changes everything. I have a feeling for you. You have good energy, Michael. Thank you.
Thank you. We're trying to be positive. Dari was going to get on here.
I don't know where she is. Does anybody else the minute and a half we have left want to,
want to talk to him? Go ahead. Can I ask you a question?
You want to ask, I want to question your man. Can I ask you a question? Yeah, what's up?
Or no, I'm, I'm, I'm, I forgot what this gentleman's name is. We're over here. Drew, Drew, Drew on here.
No, this gentleman, who's the guy? Saw a man, saw a man, saw a man.
That's better. Go ahead, buddy. Is that, is that your birth certificate song? Greg Sawyer.
Greg Sawyer. He was a mall cop. Greg, feel free to just disregard my question because it's
complicated. Do you have a scope? Do you have a theater scale where you can,
We've got a minute and a half, buddy, so be quick. Do you have a theater scale where you
can share with us the scope of some of the, the things that these men who've been awarded the
Medal of Honor, can you share with us what they've done? Well, that would take about 5,000 hours.
Like this thing here or for that thing there. The hero, the word hero exists for guys like
that. I mean, that's what they do. They earn it. They disregard their own safety and they run
to save their buddies from the unthinkable. They fight through things that, that normal people
would not. That's what the Medal of Honor is all about. So that's, that's how we celebrate those
who earn it. Can't talk about anything specifically about what they were, about they were involved
with. Well, we're going to get to this one because this was declassified. Oh yeah? When he's hosting
for three hours coming up, we're going to pull that up. The gentleman getting the Medal of Honor
yesterday at the seal. Listen, we're going to be talking more once the show's over. So you've
done a great job. You made $3,000 coming here. Yeah. It's part of capitalism. See how that did
for you? Are you happy so far with? Yes, you got out of the house. See what happened.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife
and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel
your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars life daily digestive pack today. As the years
go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs. With changes in
diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily. That's why InfoWars life created the
powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation,
vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body. Using a proprietary process, we've managed to
make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high
quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is
loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more. Start supporting
your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion
today available at InfoWarsstore.com Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air
worldwide. Thanks for holding. Hey Alex mate. I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when InfoWars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had
to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books
and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your products since the first
iteration of survival shield and since then I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality Decay Man,
the Real Red Pill, MycoZX body, it's all amazing. Thank you brother. Yeah and I wanted to say that
by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body,
you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more
you chase God and I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew
and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide. Western Europe has already banned free speech
and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down over the UK. They're set to pass rules,
not a law, that if you criticize Islam or Gage, you'll get six months in prison. We know we're
only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK. CNN and many others are calling for
InfoWars to be shut down, taken off the web. Slate magazine has a professor and others saying
go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against InfoWars. Psychologically inoculate
them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say. We are the most hated news source
in the world by globalists. It is so critical that you go to infowars.com or slash newsletter and
sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't bully
their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical
to this fight. We will prevail if you take action and I know you will. You're listening to The
Alex Jones Show.
We're back live, ladies and gentlemen. We're getting Craig back on the Skype drop.
Owen Shroyer, you're going to be hosting a three hour transmission with Craig.
A veteran's call in. Just for veterans to call in, obviously you'll be covering some of the news,
that's coming up about an hour and 13 minutes. With the war room, you see the attack that
InfoWars is under and I haven't even plugged maybe one minute, a minute and a half to last
two hours plush. Most talk shows plug every segment. I should plug every segment. Then I
wouldn't have to sit up here and freak out about expanding in the face of the globalists.
But people have to understand there's something called Trumpnesia with a lot of people who think
that Trump's saying everything's okay. The total war is on right now. A lot of people get that.
A lot of people don't, but you can tell you who does get it. The left are in their maximum push
and the more desperate they get, the more desperate they get. The more out of control they get,
the more out of control they get. The more they lie, it doesn't work. They quadruple and quintuple
and just leverage it into total cloud cuckoo land. And we are winning, but let me tell you,
and I'm not complaining. I ask for this. I just don't want to personally have them have the pleasure
of tearing us to pieces because they're certainly trying. And as you can see all over the news,
the good news is I led the broadcast with this. I'm going to get Craig back on separate from the
veterans. That's important because he's helping with a lot of folks. Leave the charts around
up the pedophile rings and all the rest of it. It's really happening. And everything we were
told about Weinstein is now coming out thanks to a Snyderman getting removed. He was protecting
him. And this is the real counter strike. This is Trump's counter strike. As we told you was
coming in November of 2016 and Drudge looking to our spirit cooking articles and exposing the
pedophile rings and then them creating side diversions that were honeypots for us. We're not
perfect. Some of us fell into them. You know, the distractions with pizza gate. But now the real
counter offensive is taking place. This is a big deal, Owen. Well, like you said, I mean, even the
night of the election, though, Alex, you had some reservations about celebrating because you said,
I know that the left is going to push back. You know, we just had a major victory, but the globalists
are not going to go away. You know, they've invested well, it's like you take it's like you
take a port in a war. But then 50 ships come pulling around the corner to retake it. I mean,
we're in a war. This is we've not won the war yet. Yeah, we won a death star level
destruction event. But as we all know, just because you bought the death star up doesn't mean the
imparts are laying out there. Well, the globalists have a survival instinct, too. And their ideology
has a survival instinct. And that's the key here that I actually broke down with Doug Hagman
yesterday on the war room is that the reason why they're engaged in such heinous activity,
abusing the power of the FBI, the DIJ, the NSA, the CIA, the reason why they're so unabashed in
their fake news and their lies were even still I mean, Alex, this is like, even after James Clapper
has admitted the FBI had spies. He said he said we spied on Trump, though I don't like to call it
that close quote, the view, they're saying we're making it up. They still deny it. Adam Schiff
on Twitter, Eric Swall on Twitter, there was no spying. It's fake news from the right. And it's
like, wait a second, we just got that from James Clapper, even though we already knew that was
going on. But it's it's all a survival instinct. They know that they're against the ropes. And
they know that if Trump isn't defeated or removed from office, that they're done,
their stranglehold over the country, the communist, socialist, whatever you want to call it,
that they try to bring this government down with is in dire straits. Absolutely. And I
wanted saw man on the last segment, they got him on a little bit earlier. I want to get him back on
guys. And I want to get the congressional medal honors thing that was done on Fox,
just because we're going to air that before this show inch. I'm going to countermand or
that's not the word I'm going to commandeer some of the next hour. So just I'm telegraphing that
to everybody because that's about if you want to play the full thing, it's about 20 minutes,
the full entire presentation. So you carried it? I've got it. I've got it queued up to play on the
war room. Okay, well, I'm going to play just some of it here, then when he gives them the award
wherever because Obama got rid of this. Well, and think about this, Alex, like you said,
you didn't see this yesterday. It really didn't get much TV coverage. I mean, very little coverage
in the Medal of Honor. I remember when Obama handed out any award, it was a huge TV event.
They had the whole camera crews there. Everybody made a big deal of it. But Trump hands out a
Medal of Honor. It seems like nobody even bats an eye. Just like the MS 13 roundtable, nobody
bats an eye. That was an incredibly powerful event. Just like the Republicans in a 50 minute
public presser announcing that it's time for a special counsel into the Clinton email investigation
and the origins of the Trump press. You keep posted and I'll be back. These things, these things just
get no coverage. These things get no coverage. And it's just incredible to think why, why wouldn't
somebody cover an MS 13 roundtable where they come out with the news? And this is, I mean,
this is huge, right? I mean, why wouldn't anybody be talking about gangs? We're talking about gangs
that murder, rape, traffic and children, et cetera, sell drugs, all of it, violent gangs
sneaking into this country using children, using children to get in. It's just like people don't
take what we say seriously. MS 13 knows how to get around the system. That's not just rhetoric.
It's pretty simple to figure out, oh, okay, if I, if I come in with a kid or two, they're going to let
me in. Wow, MS 13 has a brain too. They, they bring in the kids with their gang members. And then
what do you have unaccompanied children in the country that we have to take care of? And this
is totally ignored by mainstream press, even though it should be top news. And let me expand on
that. MS 13 is the most hated Mexico because they're out of El Salvador. They're literally
devil worshipers. They're the worst gang in, they set the precedent back 15 years ago or so
to start killing kids. Nobody would kill kids in any Latin American gang because they had some basic
chivalry. Now they're killing kids, something previously only Muslims would do on purpose.
So I mean, these guys are worse than animals. Animals kill for food. Animals kill to survive.
These people do it because it's a cult of who can be the nastiest, meanest, most disgusting person.
And, you know, these are the guys that are running the county operations. These are the guys
that are so ruthless. They're taking over the Mexican gangs. And the Mexican gangs are adopting
their psychology. When we got 150 million Mexicans in Mexico, and you got a probably 20,
30 million Legals here, you don't want them adopting this. I mean, this is like adopting
Nazism or something. And the president simply says this and they go, how dare you? You're
saying Hispanics are animals. But let me just make a comment real quick on the animals thing.
Okay, so it's the entire left freaks out over Trump saying animals. Wait a second,
you claim we're animals through evolution. So they literally teach in science that we're animals.
That's their science. They want their science that teaches we're animals. Of course. Of course.
Babies aren't even humans. Chop them up. But then Trump says animals,
speaking of gang members, and they throw their hands in the air. They're chopping babies up.
But now they're saying everyone has a spark of divinity. These are God's children. They said,
oh, well, Pelosi didn't mean them. Then a bunch of Democrats come out and they go, no,
we mean MS-13, including Juan Williams. And let me add this, that's why I'm saying everybody
points their fingers at Michael Rotondo. And they go, look, this guy's the biggest bum in the galaxy.
And I think he's got some quirky, you know, issues. I don't think he's a bad guy. I think
he's been shut in. He's nothing compared to making us pay for MS-13 to bring women in
who have babies by design to give them an anchor in the United States to bring up to 10 more people
in. We're paying for MS-13 women to have babies on record to pay for everything for them. That is BS.
And this is what a welfare state does. And even though its intentions may be good,
even though the intentions of... But it's not at the top. You read LBJ. He said the blacks...
But it never works. These are quotes. I only want to say the quotes because he'll edit it and say
I said it. He said blacks are getting up, but he... Because they oppressed them so they created
their own economies. And when some areas were getting wealthier than whites. It's like Kanye West
now too. You know, he's getting a little uppity. They need to, you know, send him back to the
Middle East. Exactly. Listen, folks, here's the bottom line. We need your support. We're all
in this together. We got free shipping running store-wide right now. We've got all of our best
selling products for the Moral Day Special at 50% off. X2 and the Bio through Selenium Combo,
50% off. Brain Force Plus, 50% off. Amazing. The Real Red Pill Plus now with energy, 50% off.
Silver Blue, Silver Bullet. Amazing. Loyal Silver, 50% off. Alpha Power. Whoa. Try that for yourself.
Mind and Body, 50% off. Super Males for Female, amazing. 50% off. And free shipping. Oh, I forgot.
Free shipping. Immune Wall, 50% off. And here's the biggest special. Info Wars, Life,
Super High-Quality Tourable Food, Private Label, My Patriot Supply, Six Month Supplies,
One Year Supplies, Three Month Supplies of Food, 50% off with... Here's the big one with food.
It's a lot for shipping. Free shipping on the food. This is a near-lost leader, but with all the
things going on in this world, it's so critical to be prepared. This is the biggest special ever
on storeable food at infowarstore.com. Whatever you do, check out all of the great items,
the T-shirts, the books, the videos, and help fund this operation as we prepare to launch
the final main stage of 24 hours a day. Reporters in every major region of the planet,
attacking the globalist relentlessly on a 24-hour basis, upping our game in the face of the Soros,
Clinton, EU, Crime Syndicate Assault. Hour number four with Owen Schroyer, Alex Jones, and more,
straight ahead. You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars, Life. Our organic
formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get
you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Info Wars Life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Memorial Day blowout special free shipping and up to 50% off your favorite products.
To help celebrate Memorial Day, we're dropping the prices to unprecedented levels on new and old
favorite products. Now's the time to take advantage of these incredibly low prices
of fan favorite supplements, gear, and more with free shipping while supporting the Info War.
Supermale and Superfemale Vitality 50% off with free shipping.
X2 Biotru Selenium Combo 50% off with free shipping. Brainforce Plus Alpha Power
The Real Red Pill Plus. DNA Force Plus. Flora Life Products. Immune Wall.
Pollen Black. Info Wars Life selects storeable foods one year six month and three month food
supply 50% off with free shipping. Don't forget to sign up for our newsletter to gain VIP access
to exclusive store-wide deals at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. Join the fight for freedom.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
