We are drugged out. We are following other people's opinions. We are controlled by the media. Today it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us. It is a choice, just like when I said slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing as expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying I hate you, I hate you, f**k you, f**k you. How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love? Why don't we just try love? We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy mother f**kers to change something. Steve Jobs is crazy. Now we all know Steve Jobs phones.
They say Trump's crazy. They say I'm crazy. But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
Well, there it is. Sunday, June 3rd. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
Hard to believe it's already Sunday, June 3rd, 2018. We're going to be live here for the next two hours.
And then of course back with a weekday transmission, 11 a.m. Central. You've got David Knight in the morning.
You've got Owen Schreuer and Roger Stone after that as we add more live broadcasts to the M4's radio slash TV lineup.
Wow. Today we're going to have Zach on, who's just a really smart guy and a great source and really already tells me things that I already basically know from other sources.
But he likes to come on the show and we like to have him on the show. And he knows Elon Musk and he knows Lewis Farrakhan, a lot of other folks that behind the scenes have been reached out to and basically have been resonating with,
especially if you talk about somebody like Elon Musk with the bigger plan. Now, what is the bigger plan? The bigger plan is not the globalist plan.
And I keep obsessing over this because I've always been trying to get humanity to get off the globalist track of depopulation, a planned austerity of the globalist thinking humanity is a bunch of trash,
dumbing us down, trying to make us fight with each other so they can control the future and try to depopulate us before we discover the life extension technologies and all the other key information.
And I've been obsessing over that for 20 plus years. I've made a film about it, several films, in-game blueprint for global enslavement, turned a lot of heads because it's the quotes and the statements of the top billionaire globalist to almost a man,
other than like Donald Trump or Elon Musk or a few others who have bought into the plan to have this big giant global government and to cut off the resources and then have controlled bio weapon releases that wipe out large segments of the population.
That's been the decided plan. And we've been building towards that plan for really 45 years or so. The globalists didn't get full control until about 45 years ago and they didn't have total control, but they got steering control.
Didn't mean there wasn't still resistance and things, headwinds and storms they had to go through and resistance, but they were in control of the national security apparatus of the West. And now their final goals come into view.
So I could cover hundreds of incredible news articles, really interesting things happening, a lot of amazing things happening and then they're all important. But they're all just backdrop and just part of the fabric of the plants.
And see, are you really conscious? Are you really alive? If you aren't part of a plan, part of your own destiny? Because the globalists have decided your destiny. They've got a plan. And I'm here trying to expose that plan.
It's how we predicted everything you've seen happen. Because I didn't predict it. They have a plan. I was reading their roadmap. I'm like, well, they're going to do this. This is really horrible.
And then as it began to all come true, people said, wow, this guy's smart. No, I, they're in control. I read what they were planning. Well, some other folks have a bigger plan.
An acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter. And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply. But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
There's an answer to this riddle.
I don't sit here and say, Oh, look, we're under attack. Like nobody else in the world except for Trump. I don't say that to like brag. How do you brag about thousands of articles a week lying about you? Hundreds of TV programs we know of every week lying.
ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Bill Maher, all of them last week just lying about me for a five comedy central shows every week.
Well, they have one show four nights a week that attacks me with total lies. Why are they doing that? What is it about info wars? What is it we're saying that has them so upset?
We heard this before from people at the Pentagon, CIA, academics, people I talked to, Lewis Faircon sitting there having dinner with him at his house.
And like a code word two years ago, he goes, you know, Kanye, he's come and visited us and Kim Kardashian and, you know, they want to do something bigger. They want to change things. They would like a bigger plan.
And Faircon's looking at me. And I'm sitting there after I've eaten three servings of food tired. I'm on a reality TV people. I'm not really into them.
And then I saw Kanye get up there and say, it's a bigger plan. And that's what it's called at the highest levels of the breakaway intelligentsia in Hollywood, in banking and culture that are liberals, they're conservatives, they're straight, they're gay, they're old, they're young, they're black, they're white, they're Asian, they're Hispanic, they're Arab, they're whatever.
But they don't like the big mega bank, big mega corporation alphabet. That's the big parent company of Google, YouTube, Tim Cook, Apple, the Communist Chinese, Shelling, political decisions, organs.
They don't like this really anti human post human plan.
And so they call it the bigger plan.
And you know, I think I'm smart sometimes, but I told the story at going to a business meeting in a brunch yesterday and a lot of feed I did and I'm looking for the salt over here with the ketchup and the jelly and the sugars that and my business associate goes Alex is right there, right there.
And I already knew all this already knew Trump was resisting already knew there were groups that wanted a pro human future.
To a point that I could predict what would be in his state of the union, I could predict what his speeches would be all of it because he's not getting his information from me.
He's getting it from the deep study and the analysis and the pro human patriots in the government.
And I got down to the final line of handing America over to the Chinese Communist, letting them run all the major corporations Hollywood, giving them all the code keys to Alexa Siri that they said man this is really real.
It's a big compartmentalization and my broadcast and Matt Drudge amplifying in fours and other key areas help trigger a debate and a discussion within Silicon Valley within the Pentagon within NASA within the big tech giants.
That is incredible and of course I wasn't the only one talking about this it's just that.
I was able to get a big enough medium to break through and then they thought oh this crazy sound and Texan and you know the stuff he does we can twist this and discredit this whole movement.
So the government and the corrupt elements amplified me the last few years thinking that that would discredit the pro human big plan movement and instead it supercharged it.
It really is incredible when I come back from break I'm going to give you some of the best news that I've ever seen when it comes to humanities awakening that I was already thinking about naming the show on the video streams today on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and places.
I was thinking of naming it this when I came in just from discussions of Paul Watson discussions with my wife discussions with my children and what I've done the last two weeks and what I've been saying on air.
And then suddenly I went and filtered through a couple hundred articles they printed up just off top news sites.
There was a theme there. There was a theme that I was already going to go on air with, which again shows the hundreds of monkey syndrome or phenomenon where there have been real tests where you'd have a grip of monkeys on one island that are research primates being taught to do complex tasks.
And then an island seven miles away where there were no monkeys communicating or traveling back and forth as soon as these monkeys learned how to do this task.
Suddenly the monkeys seven miles away knew how to do it.
And that's what the NSA tries to target us. That's what the deep state, the bad elements of it. They try to target trends and awakenings and steer them and control them and manipulate them so that they can be in control of human devolution towards human
capitalism and the rise of this new silicon life form they believe because the dark force programming their agenda that gives them some advanced knowledge but it's all twisted tells them you've got to kill everybody and quote save the earth first before we give you a sentence but really they're the ones killing the earth.
There are all these different people like Elon Musk and others warned you but where those that worship AI gods and say the end of humanity is here and then sure enough to look on Valley launches its priest to counter musk in my shelf and says oh it's good.
You could be in the elect. You could be a sentient but you'll have to physically die before your brains uploaded.
Well I'm sorry I was already given that idea by the OSS operative for the inventor of the telecommunications satellite. Sir Arthur C. Clark a Luciferian.
I already know about childhoods in my friend. No escaping you will be childhoods in Warren Buffett oh it's liberal to save money don't worry doctors you want to kill somebody.
The AI will decide who lives and die and its name is Thomas after Thomas Watson of the death camps around the Nazi computers total fact but they think you're stupid.
But the thing about all these old globalists is they're all very robotic they're all very psychotic they're all very soulless so they have to mimic an ape acting like a human but they can't.
They're not. But we must transcend them in the great test.
Or fall. Now we come back to most positive news ever and then all the other news and then Dr. Corsi got Intel in the deep state planning the target Sean Hannity and Hannity is concerned about that they're already targeting Sean Hannity already rated as lawyer God so that's coming up.
Zach's gonna pop in and get into some stuff that he says is a window and all the other stuff is going on please remember that if you're listening to us on local radio or local TV watching please tell folks to tune in it's that word of mouth that trumps everything they do it's the real power you have the real power we have together.
If you're watching or listening on the Internet send people to info wars dot com or news wars dot com to hey here's the forbidden stuff here's the guy they say is the most evil man on earth here with the same why are they attacking him everywhere.
Hear what they don't want you to hear info wars dot com news wars dot com.
And yes we have free shipping still going for a few more days at info wars store dot com on all of our best selling nutraceuticals.
So together 50% off and free shipping brain force plus our best selling utropic is 50% off.
That's getting a little bit low on the supplies so that specials gonna end a couple days the real red pill plus with the pregnant one on the minerals all the rest of it.
Now that energy that's there free shipping silver bullet alpha powers all of its amazing info wars store dot com info wars live dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine.
But whatever you do just keep thinking about freedom keep praying to God for an awakening just keep taking action and bucking the bullies and don't be afraid.
And the Internet of the Spirit will transmit the information over and through the enemy they can't stop the transmission.
As the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress.
You may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more.
You can start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at infowarstore.com.
Years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment.
We knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems.
If you've ever been on check powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract powder co bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com.
Hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor.
That's right now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to infowarstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something it is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at infowarstore.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storeable meals is crucial with info wars life select storeable food.
You can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year.
There's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select storeable foods.
From the front lines of the information war it's Alex Jones.
So I've got some very good news for you my friends all over local news stations across the country all over local papers.
I'm noticing meaning it's not centralized corporate talking points. I'm seeing news articles about Alexa spying on you for Amazon.
I'm seeing articles about families taking the cell phones and smartphones away from their children.
I'm seeing articles about people taking the phones away and getting their lives back.
Paul Watson has been on vacation for 10 days in Spain he comes back tomorrow and he was saying to me today that he had his phone turned off for days and he's so happy.
I decided two weeks ago with my daughters who when they go to a friend's house or the school field trip or whatever I let them have their quote smartphone.
But they got so obsessed with it with the dopamine programming the inventors of it. The people that run those systems they admit it's meant like a slot machine to program your child to make them depressed when they don't have it took them away for a couple weeks 100%.
It's like kids from the 1950s outside having fun totally nice playing together doing art having a great time playing with the dog playing with the cat playing with the baby.
It's great. It's like they went from being okay to amazing just like that.
And they admit in major studies cell phones cause lower IQs brain damage depression.
And then if you get on the social media it's even worse so without even looking today I was planning to come on air and talk about this.
But then I saw in Yahoo News French news agency Daily Mail and others these articles a whole bunch of just in my stack from what they just printed off major news.
It's already a big phenomenon that people are leaving their smartphones behind they're turning them off they're spending more time with family smart phone orders are down and flat.
It's absolutely made me happier Simon Cowell reveals he hasn't touched his mobile phone in 10 months because it was making him distracted and irritated.
Well it actually heats up the brain cells in major studies and breaks the DNA and just old fashioned cell phone radiation doubles the chances of brain tumors in major studies.
Look it up 5G and other micro wave radiation increases it even worse.
So how getting rid of a smart phone revolutionized my life.
People been talking about getting rid of these little computers that dominate control our lives for years but now it's the financial times it's it's everywhere.
And it's it's a phenomenon.
And they know this in history they know this in culture that there's a tipping point and once people get to that point you can't stop it.
No army can stop an idea whose time has come to the French philosopher and statesman Victor Hugo and I totally agree with it.
Just like Mark Twain said in the beginning of patriots a scarce man hated fear and scorn.
But in time when his cause exceeds the timid join him because then it costs nothing to be a patriot.
Try to change things for my family and your family because I'm a survivalist.
I'm a futurist.
I'm a believer in humans.
I believe in expansionism.
The global associates and followers and psychopaths and cowards and mercenaries look at me and they think you're a fool.
Really.
I'm a fool because I want a future for humanity not just what I can get for myself right now.
You're mentally ill.
The first offers to buy me off.
Almost 20 years ago we're a million a year.
Three million a year.
People say oh well tell us who did it.
Well it's business opportunities.
It's corporations.
We're going to control what you say.
What you do.
We're going to give you book deals.
I was to be the Glenn Beck.
And finally they went okay we'll give you a $10 million contract.
And we'll give you a book deal and a Fox News show on the weekend.
But I remember when I said no the executive said I don't make that in five years.
You got to take this.
And when I didn't take it a couple years later Fox was in the New York Daily News saying Jones wants to be on Fox.
But Jones doesn't get to be on Fox.
See their sick culture when they know full well I pissed on them.
So to all of you with all the censorship and attacks we're under that point your finger and say oh look if you promote info wars they block you on Twitter and Facebook.
That's the point.
We are the trailblazers.
We're the tip of the spear.
I'm not trying to win popularity contest here.
I'm trying to change the world.
And to get those tipping points you've got to be unpopular at first like the first abolitionist.
Thomas Jefferson wanted to free the slaves but he couldn't get the votes.
And then by 1800 2% of the north was abolitionist.
But by 1867 slavery was outlawed 65 years later.
So see to all the followers I'm going to explain to you how to be a leader because you haven't figured it out yet.
But I was offered $10 million to be Glenn Beck right before 9 11 even happened.
And I said no and then I bring in way more than that now and then I spend it right back into what we're doing.
Because I have a mission.
It's not to have a wide body jet like Glenn Beck's having to sell now the guy's got like a jumbo jet.
I'm not trying to live in a 50 bedroom house why so the dog can crap in other rooms.
I want to get I'm moving into a smaller house.
Because it's easier and happier.
I'm trying to change the universe not like a peacock sit up there in Hollywood.
I mean I saw the headline I remember eight years ago I said communist China now owns Hollywood and all the anti semites went crazy.
Those are really the bots and they said oh you're covering up.
Look at the Washington Post the coming Chinese crackdown on Hollywood.
Next year's news today and look I'm not bragging about this folks I'm just telling you I'm tuned into the zeitgeist and that's why they don't like me.
The globalists are tuned in to they use it against you.
I'm trying to troll blades I'm trying to blow open doors I'm trying to break glass ceilings for humanity.
The fact that Paul Watson said we should launch a major initiative to get rid of cell phones and be happy and get outside more and get into self help and self empowerment.
I'm like yes yes because that's what folks are looking for not just the info but the solution.
Yeah be aware the bad guys are over here don't go with them but then offer something better.
And so we need to move into that more than ever because you've got all these top writers and journalists and Simon Cowell and you know all these people saying get rid of him.
This long soaring smartphone market heading to earth going down French news agency.
And notice it's all just right here humanity is struggling back.
They purposely have blocked a peace deal in Korea for 60 years that's why Trump can end it.
Remember Obama said you'll never have 3% growth rate it's about to be 4% because you can't wait with a magic wand.
But you got us tied up in the corner I can untie us.
This is big. This is the horrible Satanist and control freaks and wicked people.
The psychopaths wanted to control the future being greedy little cowards thinking they were in full command and humanity is waking up and resisting it like a raging bull.
We'll be back stay with us.
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down over the U.K.
They're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize Islam or gays you'll get six months in prison.
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the U.K.
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist.
It is so critical that you go to info wars dot com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you.
And so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight.
We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
President Trump gave a speech on Friday at the Naval Academy for their commencement and said America is back.
Hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore but patriots that believe in real Americana are back in charge.
And the world is taking notice.
Ladies and gentlemen to celebrate Memorial Day and the great sacrifices of our veterans.
We are offering free shipping and info wars store dot com and 50% off on more than 20 best selling items like brain force.
The amazing new tropic helps support the information war.
Get great products at the same time and continue to fund an operation that is a thorn on the side of the globalist.
And continuing to back President Trump and other patriots not just here but worldwide in support of free market capitalism.
Support of Christianity support of family support of basic freedom.
Huge Memorial Day specials are in throughout this weekend until the month of May ends.
And info wars store dot com and for his life dot com.
Take advantage today.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia.
You're on the air worldwide.
Hey Alex mate.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when info wars and prison planet.
It was just blue text on a white screen and they had to load down the page on my dial up internet.
And I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of survival shield.
And since then I'm on the X2.
The super male vitality, the cave man, the real red pill, micro ZX body. It's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah and I wanted to say that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there.
1776 World War.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico.
Where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions.
We've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions.
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend.
Infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show.
While enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
You know, there was so much breaking news yesterday that I came in at a couple live reports.
In fact, I broadcast for over two hours out of the new podcast studio yesterday with our little mini crew.
And there were four or five different CNN articles alone as the talking points come out.
And ABC News had the same ones. Paul Watson actually retweeted it.
That's probably a good place to find it. So I forgot to pull it out of the stack during the break.
There's like 60 articles just in this stack.
But CNN goes, America's really doing good economically and all this stuff, but we're really at unease because of Trump.
And then it says America's really doing good because of Obama.
No, Trump directly did the economic policies that turn the country back on. And that's a fact.
We'll take five hours to go over it all, but the policies bringing the jobs back, incentivizing, getting the taxes cut,
calling thousands of factory owners and saying, if you invest, don't worry, it will all come back.
I mean, Trump's new nickname is the magic wand. In fact, you heard it here first. Obama gave him the name.
First, Obama called him the trash man. And I went, how's that an insult? He's taking out trash.
But I'm telling you, Trump's new nickname is the magic wand.
We give him a fancier name, the scepter.
But the truth is, Americana and free market works. People have dreams. They have hopes. They're smart.
You get out of people's way. You can't stop them.
Remember, Obama said, what a magic wand. You'll never get up to 3% growth rate. I couldn't.
It's at 3.8 right now, folks. It's going above four.
Because I know folks that have been in the meetings inside the winehouse, you're like, wait, it's at 3.2, the news says.
It's 3.8. When the quarterly comes out, it's going to be 4 or 4.1. We're not sure yet.
Yeah, the unemployment rate is 3.8 as well. So that's 50 years, since the 50s, you haven't had that.
It's like the 50s all over again, back to the future. Now, they say, oh, you want to go back to America.
No, America's about going forward. Globalism is the feudalism and the scepter and being poor.
We're going back to the future, baby.
So that said, I saw the Sean Hannity piece attacking he and I.
Sean Hannity's the number one guy on cable news by millions.
And he just gets more popular as he wakes up. I mean, he was always pro-gun, pro-America.
Nobody's perfect, but he's even attacked me with stuff years ago that people misrepresented.
And I get it, okay? I'll tell you this right now. We're blessed to have Sean Hannity.
And when I wake up in the morning and I realize they're trying to destroy me, I feel good to know he's there.
Because other than Drudge, which is bigger than anything when it comes to total visitors, there's like Trump, there's Drudge, there's Alex Jones,
and then over here, there's Sean Hannity with his millions of radio listeners, tens of millions and all of it.
He's the only thing out there as bigger, bigger than info wars that's a personality talking every day other than Trump.
So it's kind of a weird scenario where it's like Trump, Hannity and me, and the media thinks they're going to get cheap shots of Hannity all the time,
misrepresenting what I've said and going after Hannity.
Then I watch Hannity sitting there with the Hill reporter who's broken the bombshell info that we already knew, because Obama bragged about it,
but now it's proven they lied. He has the proof of it that they were spying on him way before, you know, the campaign even was dominant before his inauguration,
before he was president-elect, before his, he won the primary and became the nominee.
And so he's got this Hill reporter on, he goes, you know, do you think Dr. Corsi, who's coming on a little while, is right?
Do you think Corsi's right with all his White House sources and everything else?
That I'm the next target of the deep state? Sean, they read your lawyer and then outed your own personal details that had nothing to do with anything,
all over the news and implied you were summed up a criminal, and they've tried to take your sponsors and kick you off the air.
And Media Matters admitted five years ago that you're their main target to get.
And all this is going on, and they targeted tens of thousands of churches and Christian groups for the IRS,
and you're asking if Corsi's right that you're being targeted, you're already being targeted.
And it just shows Hannity's blind spot, because I know people that know him well.
So Mr. America, so quarterback, you know, just Mr. Cleaver, that he's on the show going,
really, the deep state's going to make stuff about me, come after me, really?
That's where we are.
Yes, Sean, that's where we are.
Just because you're Mr. Goody Two Shoes, and I am too, and walk little ladies across the street,
and just because you don't ever scam anybody and you're not a criminal, that's why America likes you.
They pick up instinctively on that.
Doesn't mean they're not coming after you. They're coming after you because you are good, Sean Hannity.
And those of us that aren't evil need to realize that they're not playing according to our deck of cards.
It's taking you a while to figure that out, and I'm not saying you're bad.
I'm just saying they hate you because you're on target.
They hate you because you've got it.
They hate you because you talk to the president every day.
They hate you because they're losers and no one watches them, and they all watch you.
Because to them, it's all about their own personal power.
They can't stand the fact you're the number one media personality in this country.
Bigger than Limbaugh, you name it.
As a personality, bigger than Alex Jones in a positive way.
They don't know what to do.
And so you're sitting there with this Hill reporter asking you, do you think it's true?
Do you think it's true?
Do you think the sun came up this morning?
So they try to act like I'm the weakness of the nationalist populist awakening because I'm the strength.
Because if anybody ever starts just going with the truth and not care what they say, the public wants it.
It's why you've got the top ratings.
The truth is they did illegally spy.
The truth is they are on the Russian payroll.
The truth is they are on the Chinese payroll.
My God, China owns all six.
They have controlling interest in all six big production houses.
You go see a movie.
It's communist Chinese propaganda.
Half measures aren't going to beat them, Sean.
And I know Fox has had you on the edge of having to leave.
I know they've been on your ass a year ago when they were still running all this anti-Trump stuff and they thought they could still win.
But now the Murdochs get that they have to get with the wave.
We have the initiative.
We have the cutting edge.
We're winning.
So I say to Hannity, don't give them any half measures.
Go all the way.
But yeah, I love how they target everybody.
They say, bank of everybody, sue everybody, destroy everybody, get us off air.
And then, oh, there's no deep state.
Nobody's spying on Trump.
Oh, nobody's trying to get Alex Jones or Sean Hannity, boulder dash.
And we'll get the inside scoop from a guy that's worked for the U.S. intelligence and everywhere else.
And I'm not going to get into it all.
Number three, number one, three times New York Times bestseller.
Dr. Kors, she'll be here to give us the inside scoop.
But of course they're coming after Hannity.
And if they can get Hannity, they can get every one of us.
Is Hannity perfect?
No.
Am I perfect?
No.
But we're not out to get the country.
We're not anti-American.
We're not anti-capitalist.
We're not anti-gun.
That's why they're going to call us Nazis.
They're going to call the whole Republican Party Nazis.
They're going to lie about what I said about 9-11 when I said Saudi involvement and a cover-up, which has now come out.
They're going to misrepresent everything because we're kicking their butt.
Here's Sean Hannity.
Senator Chuck Schumer said that you better not mess with the Intel community because they're going to get you six ways to Sunday.
This is great news for me.
Bestselling author, Jerome Corsi.
He's the author of this book.
It's out now in bookstores on Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble.com.
It's called Killing the Deep State.
You might remember him.
He was back.
Remember the group against John Kerry, Vietnam Bets for Truth?
He was one of them.
He's saying that you're as truly that I, Sean Hannity and the next target of the deep state.
Wow.
Isn't it so great to know that these corrupt officials with their backs against the wall that are desperate, desperate people do desperate things.
The people that have the most powerful tools of intelligence.
They're now going after me.
Okay.
Really?
So sadly, after all we have learned, you know, now we have Jerome Corsi's prediction.
It doesn't surprise me.
Isn't that sad?
Are we the United States of America?
Are we going to be the former Soviet Union?
Or are we going to be Venezuela?
Stop right there.
I promise you this one.
Oh, I love this part.
We're going to come back with this research.
I promise this.
I'm never giving up.
I'm never backing down.
I'm never stopping.
We're all going to have that.
We're going to come back and put the rest of it.
Back it up like 20 seconds.
We were becoming Venezuela.
We're changing it.
Hannity, all of you, all of us standing up to him is making them come out of the dark, making them reveal themselves.
This is positive, Sean.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Call 888-253-3139.
Fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvestrite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvestrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You are tuned in to the most hated, demonized radio-slash-TV show in the world.
That is by globalists, by pedophiles, by corrupt Islamist groups.
You name it, anti-free market groups, communists, they don't like us.
So, Sean Hannity, he's the number one guy in U.S. media and they demonize the living hell out of him and Nielsen's been caught giving CNN double the ratings they deserve.
They've been mixed candles.
So, when you hear that Hannity, you know, has 2 million more viewers or whatever than CNN, it's far, far bigger than that obviously.
They have to pay airports and hotels to put CNN on.
Leftists don't even watch it.
It's beyond birdcage liner. It has no inherent value.
But that said, just to hear Hannity, obviously, I guess maybe he knows his audience doesn't know this is going on, but like, could it be true?
Could I be targeted?
Gee, they just read your lawyer totally illegal and then put out a bunch of private stuff that wasn't even bad on you.
They want to destroy you.
They come after your sponsors and listeners have to understand that anybody telling the truth, they're going after them.
Now, Fox News, with the Murdoch sons and all of it, tried to be anti-Trump about a year ago.
Remember, it failed.
They tried to push a year and a half ago, Megyn Kelly.
Boy, I tell you, they love her $67 million contract at NBC.
She has the lowest ratings on television, which is a joke.
People want common sense.
They want the truth and that's why the establishment tries to act like you got 14 heads if you listen to Sean Hannity and they lie about what Hannity's saying.
Just like they do me.
They take it out of context.
I talk about Hillary funding Muslims to kill people in the Arab Spring.
They edit it on Fox or Megyn Kelly and say, I say, Hillary's killing kids in the basement.
That video's online.
Megyn Kelly caught editing video to lie about all it shows.
The point is they'll go to no ends to do this, but Hannity doubles down.
I'm going to play the whole clip now and says, I will never shut up.
I'll never go away.
I'll never surrender.
And that's the attitude.
We're so close to winning.
But they attacked Hannity.
Hannity echoes what in full words to the conspiracy theorists told him.
I'm the next target of the deep state.
You know, of course, he just talks to the White House every day.
Of course, he has three number one New York Times selling books.
Oh, but he has no credibility.
He was the guy that exposed NAFTA and GATT and everything else to Lou Dobbs who then got fired.
Oh, and why did Lou Dobbs get fired?
Lou Dobbs had more viewers than the other top three rated shows combined on CNN.
Remember back in the old days when Lou Dobbs had more viewers than Sean Hannity?
And it's not a pissing contest.
Fox News knows if they put Lou Dobbs on in a prime time slot against say, or lower in the day against the, you know,
Shep Smith or something, it had five times the ratings.
But again, they're trying to suppress it.
But they lost half their ratings in the year they were anti-Trump.
So they backed off and then boom, they're back to number one.
Again, this is the globalist quandary.
Freedom's popular, but they don't want it.
So here is Sean Hannity throwing down the goal and like, oh, so what?
Hey, you're not on air like he is.
I'm not bitching to listeners.
They come after your family, they come after you in every other way.
And all I'm pointing out is that we need to hear more stuff like this.
And again, why is he number one?
Why has info wars been number one online?
Despite all the censorship because freedom is popular.
You want freedom.
I'm just a bellwether.
I'm just a expression of what you want and what you desire.
Here's Sean Hannity.
Great news for me tonight.
Hey, close attention.
Remember when Senator Chuck Schumer said that you better not mess with the Intel community
because they're going to get you six ways to Sunday.
This is great news for me.
Bestselling author Jerome Corsi.
He's the author of this book.
It's out now in bookstores on Amazon.com, Barnes and Noble.com.
It's called Killing the Deep State.
You might remember him.
He was back.
Remember the group against John Kerry, Vietnam vets for truth?
He was one of them.
That you're as truly that I, Sean Hannity and the next target of the deep state.
Wow.
Isn't it so great to know that these corrupt officials with their backs against the wall
that are desperate, desperate people do desperate things, the people that have the most powerful
tools of intelligence and now going after me.
Okay.
Really?
So sadly, after all we have learned, you know, now we have Jerome Corsi's prediction.
It doesn't surprise me.
Isn't that sad?
Are we the United States of America?
Are we going to be the former Soviet Union?
Or are we going to be Venezuela?
I promise you this one thing.
I'm never stopping ever here to help break down this damning new report is the Hills John
Solomon.
John, good to see you, sir.
I could play that over and over again.
I'm not stopping.
I'm not backing down.
And what is the report?
It's not about toot in our horn, but if you type into Bing or any other search engine,
Google doesn't work anymore.
I'm not a fan of Microsoft, but it's like the old Google.
It's pretty fair search engine being for a big establishment one.
It's better than.go.
And I've tried like 50 of them.
I'm sorry.
Bing's the best.
And the crew agrees.
It's like Google doesn't eat.
It's totally broken.
They killed Google search function in their information war.
Hell, Google's saying Republicans are Nazis when you look at Republican Party.
I mean, you know, that was Friday's news like 50 years ago.
The reason I go back to this handy thing is that if we get on a war footing about this
and don't care what they say or do anymore, we're going to win.
If we keep caring what let this say or do, they're going to have this kind of brainwashing
authority on us.
And I'm tired of them defining everything.
I'm sick of it.
But here's an article from Zero Hedge.
It's up on infowars.com.
It's on newswars.com.
FBI spying on Trump started in London earlier than thought.
Well, I mean, we broke last year.
And then just a few weeks ago, but it was Stefan Halperin and then all the other folks.
And I know who the others are.
I don't want to get sued.
So I'm not going to have them.
But they're the people that were in all the meetings that they had minutes of going,
let's meet with the Russians.
Let's be with the Russians.
These little nobodies that got in the meetings.
They were trying to plan it.
And so Obama has been caught.
Obama was in the news in November after Trump won in December going, we've talked to President
Obama's staff and they say, don't worry.
Trump was being surveilled and is a Russian and the evidence will come out.
The delegates won't even see him on the 20th.
He will not be president.
Then I'm like, hey, look, they say in the news that they were spying on Trump and that's
illegal.
And then Trump says, oh, they were spying on me.
They go, you're crazy.
We weren't spying when we've got hundreds of news articles saying, of course.
People ask how I knew.
You globalist admitted all of this.
I've just got a memory.
Used to be photographic.
It's not now, but it's still damn good.
And man, I remember a damn word you said.
So people keep asking, how do you know?
How do you know this?
How do you know this?
I mean, type into a search engine right now.
I'm being said info wars.com at the end of it.
Type in Obama ordered spying on Trump.
You'll get stuff two years ago before he was even elected.
And how do we do that?
How do we do that?
Because the Democrats bragged about it.
My God.
The last time they did was on January 20th, two, 2006, 17.
And it was in the front page of the New York Times.
They spied on Trump Tower and his lawyer and everything.
And they said, oh, and we've got the proof.
We got the damn front of the newspaper.
And then they had the author on Pierce Morgan and all the other foreign shows saying I'm
lying about it.
Who's the other CIA guy?
Anderson Cooper.
Here, let's have the seven ways of Sunday.
Now that was the judge.
That was in March of last year.
Yeah.
That was another great patriot coming out.
Judge Napolitano saying that.
But we've got us on record.
Hell, I'm attacked by CNN for being the progenitor of it.
Remember, I made a big hissy fit two weeks ago about that clip.
It's the clip of CNN says Trump learned about spying from Alan Showns.
Remember that clip?
Just because I'm going into that, we might want to pull that up.
I'm a little bit OCD about stuff because I know all the facts.
I have it all.
I want to show you each time.
I want to continue to hammer you with it because I want you to fully wake up and get what's
going on here.
You're so dumb that they said days before the inauguration, Trump better watch it.
We got seven ways to Sunday to get in the intelligence community.
And then Trump goes, the intelligence community is doing stuff to me.
He's the president.
He knows all that now, but it's classified.
He could release it, but he was setting them up to lie about it to get it all to come out.
Let's go to it right now.
Here is Chuck Fisher.
He's shot.
This antagonism is taunting to the intelligence community.
You take on the intelligence community.
You have six ways from Sunday at getting back at you.
So even for a practical, supposedly hard-nosed businessman, he's being really dumb to do
this.
So there you go.
What did Bill Marley attack me on Friday night say?
Jones is insane.
No one spied on Trump.
No one from the FBI.
They just watched him because he's a Russian agent.
He actually said that word for word.
The Russian agent thing's been disproven, but he goes, there's no spying.
They just surveilled him.
But he goes, oh, but Rush Limbaugh is good.
Alex Jones is bad.
Really?
You hadn't listened to Rush Limbaugh yet, have you?
We blew the doors open to make it safer.
El Rushboe to tell the truth.
You don't think Rush doesn't know as much as I do or more?
Second hour coming up.
Share those links.
Jam it down Soros.
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending
down over the UK.
They're set to pass rules, not a law, that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get
six months in prison.
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK.
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down, taken off the left.
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying, go beyond censorship.
Brainwash young people against info wars.
Psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say.
We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter and sign up for the
free newsletter so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't bully their way
in and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society.
That is critical to this fight.
We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we haven't
info wars live.
It take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine
fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowars.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Remember Gruber, the head of the Obama Health Care Commission.
He gave all these speeches on C-span to universities.
He said, thank God the public has no memory.
Thank God they have a memory less than a goldfish, less than seven seconds.
The smartphones are habituating them to that.
But if you remember you have a memory, it comes back.
So we just played Sean Hannity talking about how he's the target of the deep state.
Of course, they admit they're targeting the free press in this country.
They just listed all Republicans in the state of California as followers of Nazism.
That isn't a reason to bust up Google and Alphabet and that big ol' stink of monopoly.
What is?
Now, just about an hour ago, Fox News, I was in there getting a glass of water, was playing
a clip of Ben Rose, the National Security Advisor to Obama, the head strategist, CIA
operative, of course, from the deep state.
Not all CIA is bad.
It's just a big organization, but most of it's globalist against Trump and that famous
video that got released this week of him crying, well, Greg Gutfield, let's say his
name, he had a great idea to add crying game music to the deer in the headlights of these
arrogant people that didn't see what was coming.
I saw what was coming.
I told you what was coming.
And I told you they could stop him from stealing the states at the computer level when Homeland
Security under Obama would hack in, we'd win.
And sure enough, they stole a bunch of states, but we blocked them at five.
So that's the really exciting news here, ladies and gentlemen, is we're awake now.
See, they thought we were unconscious.
They thought we would never wake up, but we have woken up.
And now they don't know what to do.
The sleeper has awoken.
So here's Fox News a little while ago looking at the left and their full implosion.
I mean, I, I can't, I can't, I can't put it into words, I don't know what the words
are.
Now that's pretty powerful, isn't it?
But the way I want it is the way he introduced it because he first introduces it, like I
said about an hour ago, he first introduces it and he plays it normal.
And then he had the added idea of adding music to it.
So I didn't communicate that.
It's my fault.
But the good news about time space continuum is as long as we're alive, we can continue
to go back and do it right.
So now, ladies and gentlemen, just just play it for wherever hell, let's just watch a few
minutes of it.
Here it is.
Ben Rhodes.
This is great tape HBO caught him on the night that Hillary lost.
I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't,
I can't, I can't put it into words, I don't know what the words are.
I could watch that forever.
Yeah.
You tried to install a carcass music.
I mean, I, I, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't put it into words, I, I don't know
what the words are.
So there you go.
I wanted to get that clip out there because it shows the delusion when they run a stumbling
evil, hi, I'm Hillary, hi, I mean, this is what they are force feeding us.
This is who they think we are and they wonder why we reject it and want Trump and now things
are turning around and they're panicking and CNN's got all these articles and, and, and
news pieces saying things are getting better.
It's true.
But despite Trump, yeah, you dirtbags make me sick.
We're going to stop your post industrial world.
We're going to stop your anti-human movement.
We're going to win.
Stay with us for inside intel.
You don't want to miss.
They hope you don't spread these live links right now, so I'm sure you.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Add to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We
To change something. Steve Jobs is crazy. Now we all know Steve Jobs phones. They say Trump's crazy. They say I'm crazy
But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones. I'm just doing what the universe told me to do
All right, ladies and gentlemen
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones
All right, I have a lot of sources in
Silicon Valley in Hollywood in big banking
In the military obviously, but you know, my biggest source is my own brain and
Reading the news and seeing what propaganda is being pushed seeing who's resisting
But Jack's been calling in for a year and a half that I remember and
Then after Vegas he put some stuff out that I've been told by the hostage rescue team of the FBI
But they'd asked me not to put out and so I really started paying attention and he went ahead and told my producer
So let me get you on as a guest. You keep getting in on the calls, which is really hard to do
How are you doing that? You're like waiting every time we have calls and you're somehow getting through that that's hard enough right there
We've gotten 24,000 calls on like an hour before we open the phones up that man. I'm not kid
so it's like really hard to get in and
He said well, here's who I am. We looked him up. He'd been on the news for you know, almost a decade
But in the reports his face match we talked to him. You know, he's who he says he is army intelligence and some other groups and
He connected a lot of dots that we're hiding in plain view like
Louis Farrakhan, you see what you want about Louis Farrakhan
But he's got at least 10 million black people in America. They'll do whatever he says and remember Farrakhan going
You know Kanye and and and Kim Kardashian. They're not really bad
You know, they come here and they they're they're part of them. They want a bigger plan. They want something big
They want to do something different
And I'm like, yeah, well, those are reality TV hosts. I don't put on acts around people. I can't help it
I'm just like I was tired. Whatever. I've been you know, it's place like 10 hours. I was like, yeah
Well, I don't like Kanye West and all these people around the table looking at me and they were like, I don't really like Kanye West
They were like steak thought I was already in on everything. I reverse engineered all this you ask who runs the resistance
It's it's in the air. It's a wireless spiritual internet. We want freedom. We want a future
We don't want to die. I'm not out to get anybody. No matter what color your skin is as long as you don't hurt me and my family
I want you to succeed. I
want to work with you and
Elon Musk, you know
Zach is predicted that he'd come out against the media and things he would do so I know who Zach is he's a great source and
That's why that these fake Q and on control groups and people attacked us
But then they failed as well because they know we exposed them
But then little segments we have this segment the next and of course he's joining us
I wanted him he wants to specifically go down one rabbit hole one wormhole that he says leads you into bigger things because you know
He has non-disclosure agreements in a particular personality in the military for psyops and things he's done
But I've explained to him the legalese even though his lawyer saw him don't do it
He's his own citizen, especially once the FBI visited him a few weeks ago and grabbed him and tried to you know
Implicate him with us when he's just a guy who we know he is and he has free speech as an American
But he wants to go down the rabbit hole with where he was at Fort Hood and tried to expose
Major Hassan the fact that for two years he was being handled which later came out was allowed to do
So Zach which the fake Q and on the feds figure out who he was and did that well
So I try to stop
Situations like that and talk about things like that. So he wants to get into two-year manhunt led to killing of
Alawaki and Yemen officials the block Gaddafi gift of Farrakhan
How this ties together in the larger spectrum of Elon Musk Trump?
Why
Farrakhan told me I support Trump, but I don't know how to break it to people just a week and a half ago
Let's queue that up for next segment Farrakhan comes out and says, you know
The people that put Trump in didn't intend to help us but Trump's helping us
Black people which is true Farrakhan can't lie about that well Farrakhan knew Trump was good before he was even elected
And was asking me the secrets of Trump and I said I don't know I'm just dialed into the the universe what it says to me
He was oh Kanye, you know Kanye you know about the bigger plan
I'm like no but the bigger plan is the term used by people that don't want to starve the third world to death
That don't want to release bio weapons don't want to flood the third world in the West and bring it down
Don't want global race war don't want genocide
Now you think well Farrakhan's the guy that says the whites of the devil and all this
It's all sophisticated, and I'm not saying Farrakhan some hero. I'm simply saying this is sophisticated
So Zach you got five minutes till break ten minutes next segment. You got the floor break it down
Are you doing Alex?
It's a great you back on and have the ability to connect some dots here
And I'm also just doing what the universe has told me to do
So I come into this conversation with a very unique firsthand point of view of the murder of a leader of the richest most productive
country on the continent of Africa boomer Gaddafi
Which appeased in disarm peacefully in December of 2003 when Gaddafi agreed to eliminate his country's weapons of mass destruction program
And also his decades old nuclear weapons program through UN channels mind you
And even after all of that and let's be clear because they all know it you were there
You were involved you were right in the middle of it and and so as an Arabic speaking member of
Syops, and that's why they're so pissed about what you're only you're talking about
Specifically a North African Arabic speaking individual life Farsi speaking individual and that's speaking to individuals who have looked into that
But make no mistake. This is orchestrated and overseen by sitting you as president in top of the food chain
American Intelligent Agency
This is a very problematic. This was done
All on HD cameras all for the country to see you will remember the convoy of Toyota trucks moving through Libya
We remember fast and furious, but now the sudden now all of a sudden it's no big deal
We had a real big problem with this because Moomar Gaddafi did what you would want any
Supposed despot to do in the world denuclearize turn your weapons in he said yep. Yep. Yep. I got you. We'll do that
I did it and eight years later. He got set up murdered. That's a good word for it. It was pretty brutal
It was recorded. It was uploaded
On HD video for everyone to see in the world on monitored IP addresses
We're showing the footage right they also raped him with an AK-47
Yeah
Uploaded uploaded on uploaded for the world to see and the IP dresses are known. We know what happened
We know what we knew what occurred, but the story?
Before Gaddafi, which people need to understand what sprung out of that country and the killing at the gut Gaddafi
And why this is so important is because this is where the true ISIS
Stronghold that we are now supposedly fighting that was the launch base
They were to eat Libya and take that as subsidence as their baby meal to then invade Syria
But even before that the weapons that killed Gaddafi the power that back Gaddafi were ran through operations like fast and furious and operation
Castaway and that's all come out. That was Hillary the whole deal even though he was trying to surrender for months
He said I'm ready sir. Don't hurt the people leave the infrastructure. They said no
We're blowing it all up and we're gonna kill you and he was like forget
Forget surrender. He turned it all in 2003 through UN channels disarmed peacefully did everything what were they were expecting?
Kim Jong-un to even gave them all the money
gave them everything and
The country had so much prosperity is they had the highest GDP of the entire continent over Morocco over Egypt
It was jacky. It was pumping up all of all of Africa
I
Mean it was it was it and that was his sin his Marshall plan for Africa
And in this started long long long long time ago, so we have to realize that
Margaret off he also had connections with Europe and also the United States to include a good friend of mine Lewis Farrakhan who
In 1996 in the New York Times reports on this was attempting to receive a one billion dollar loan from the then Colonel
There in Libya which out of all people the Clinton administration
Says no, you know what this Gaddafi guy is an unsavory source
I don't think you Lewis Farrakhan the leader of the nation of Islam should receive this one billion dollar grant from
Umar Gaddafi to invest in the black community to invest with, you know, small business loans and you know
Well, let's connect the dots where all this goes when we come back
And what's happening with Trump right now on the other side in full wars comm news wars comm
Zach is our guest the secrets of Libya
President Trump gave a speech on Friday at the Naval Academy for their commencement and said America is back
Hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore, but patriots that believe in real Americana are back in charge and the world is taking
notice
Ladies and gentlemen to celebrate Memorial Day and the great sacrifices of our veterans
We are offering free shipping and then for our store calm and 50% off on more than 20 best-selling items like
Brainforce the amazing new tropic helps support the information war get great products at the same time
Continue to fund an operation that is a thorn on the side of the globalist and is continuing to back President Trump and other patriots
Not just here, but worldwide in support of free market capitalism
Support of Christianity support of family support of basic freedom
Huge Memorial Day specials running throughout this weekend until the month of May ends
And then for store calm and force live calm take advantage today
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the most potent forms of tumeric available
Tumeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today
It is well known in traditional medicine for exuding properties
Our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility
Mobility joint function immune system and so much more
Regular tumeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
But our tumeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients
Bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico
Where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques
Based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions
We've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America Patriot Blend coffee
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee bean
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina
It's time to take care of your morning routine
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
Introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
Including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function
In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
Experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later
We now have the fruit of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine
In fact current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase
Which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets
You're listening to the alex jones show
Live from the infowars.com studios you're listening to the alex jones show
I was just talking to zack
He's a smart guy during the break and he thinks trump has pretty much broken their back
He thinks the doj all of it these corrupt elements are about to back down, but they can't stop
They never quit and their own minions are kind of like zombies. They just keep attacking but tying it together
with the us with with trump
With jerry kushner in his speech saying
America does what it says now
You sign a deal with us. It's gold. Well, that's the only power visit. I'm from texas
Where it still is under law handshake deals are law
And they took our soft power of doing what we was saying under obama and hillary with all these sickening betrayals
You're getting at that
What happened to qaddafi and what finally began to turn ferrican against the left
And you go well, who cares about ferrican the guys the the main black leader in america not obama
And the point is if they can get him to go to trump or get out of the way of trump
Then we can bring prosperity and break the back of the left forever and their whole race-based system
You go well, then why go to ferrican? He's been race-based. Well, that was that time
You go to the guy that controls that to end that so it all makes perfect sense
So the time we've got you're gonna come back for a full hour this week jack break down where we are and how this ties into ford hood
Absolutely, so we so we kind of pretext with the murder of muhmer qaddafi the most prosperous country in north africa
But all that was made possible by fast and furious being ran stateside in through
Mexico into central america and eventually into north africa and that ran specifically through through ford hood
So what this becomes is it was libya by any means necessary
Even if you had to get the support by gunning down soldiers on a base in texas ford hood
2009 which brings me to my next point
What about anwar our locky which if people forget the ford hood shooting let me just stop you
You always shadow this is why the feds come after you and me for it
If you just dump it all they'll go away. They're afraid. They'll put it out. That's why they just just just get it out there
So let's talk about anwar our locky which was a supposed
Supposed mastermind of the ford hood shooting. This is the guy speaking to major nadal hasan who supposedly
You know took these guns out and gunned down the 13 soldiers at the srp site there in ford hood
Anwar our locky this yemenis cleric. Well, here's the thing about anwar our locky
Yeah, he was in yemen when he was gunned down
Excuse me droned by a cia drone in 2011 but make no mistake anwar our locky is an american citizen
Anwar our lock anwar our locky is an american speaking man born in new mexico who has a family born in the united states
Who is an intellectual who is a cia puppet?
Everyone knows it just go ahead and do the basic search on the man
And that's why I was confirmed two years after ford hood. I know you were there
That for two years they knew a locky was handling asan and let him do it
So bottom line criminal elements of our government let one of their own cia operatives posing as al-qaeda wind up
Hasan to carry out the attack
Supposedly he's still alive mumbling words in some, uh, you know military prison and anwar our locky is supposedly dead killed and
Targeted by a cia drone strike in yemen in 2011 not killed by an army drone strike
Not killed by an air force drone strike or any other dod entity
But killed by the cia in a drone strike and confirmed by the cia
Yeah, so they killed the wrong guy saying he's still alive
It in the in the poorest country in the arab world where they're still shooting
Ballistic missiles into our staunches ally in the air world if you believe that
Uh, we have very big problems, but here is the problem. They shut down the cell towers
I was on the ground in ford hood in 2009 where they did where people did die and you know structures were brought out
Uh, people were killed there in ford hood, but the idea and the narrative what's occurring
Is very problematic and it gets even more problematic when you go to the official story meaning
Uh, if this guy did do this or whatever put it this he didn't get his day in court
Uh, there was no day in court. He's an american citizen
Um, born in new mexico
Uh, his family are american citizens born in the new england area
They were all killed and targeted in the supposed strike in yemen with no due process with no nothing
Um, I don't believe he was killed in yemen. In fact, I know he was not killed in yemen
If he was killed in yemen
It's a big problem for every american citizen sitting in the country today because yeah
He happened to be a part of this story that they're stitching together
But make no mistake in 20 to 30 years from now when you become the enemy where you have your day in court
Uh, and you know, I understand what you're saying. So I mean it came out the cia you know about
About major assance plan for years and stood down
And then they covered up that it was a terror attack. So if you're gonna let an attack take place
Why not then cover up the purpose of it and just call it a mass shooting? So I don't I don't get it
Uh, yeah, I got it gets very convoluted. I mean, uh, yeah, it wasn't islamic terror
It was a work. No, I know so if you're going to protect it
And cover up that it was commanded from the highest levels. Why then not call it terror? I'm trying to get the key bono here
Oh, no, you you couldn't call you couldn't call it terrible because they had to come after the second amendment
But eventually they could double barb because you're saying they wound up an islamic terrorist as their latest false flag against the second amendment
That makes sense
I guess the second amendment and also to keep the that also ties in the libyan
What it what it officially happened because if you don't think that the d.o.d
And all the service members in america people were pissed off
It's one thing for kids to be killed which is terrible which they're doing
But it's another thing for on our most effective largest base in the world for them to attack our service members
You could do anything 9 11 prove the precedent to make that happen
But if you could really get in the base if you could really be home
Sure to actually attack the attack dogs. Let's people know there's a problem. And so what went too far in libya
To finally because that's been gauzy that got people to realize my god
And then they learned the office of personnel management was a deliberate handover of all of our personnel the chinese
I mean from my intel zack the reason there's real resistance now the globalist is
They weren't just going to broker a deal with the chinese for hegemonic sharing of power
America was to be brought down under hillary under the chi comms that went too far
If you can make a big enough mess the world
becomes
controllable
And it's all ties in and i'm jumping because we have a limited time here
But the idea of infinite makes them very uncomfortable. They want us divided to control
They do not want us connected to expand so what finally woke the intelligence agencies up against the globalist for what we've seen
In the last four years. What was the trigger? Well, well, it was just a perpetuation of just, you know
Roupus acts but the idea and the realization that we have a president in there that realizes that once we go multi-planetary
The race car goes right out the window. There's exactly we don't want the eugenics model
Starve people war model. We have to unlimited get together or we will destroy the planet and we have to go to the bigger plan
So they're they're they're crimes
they're
Terrible acts don't happen in a vacuum they occurred but we can't just stitch them together and you know current reasoning
They thought they were going to win the election. They did not anticipate donald trump winning the election
So with that being said we have an opportunity here to let me ask you that
As they panic i'll hold you over and court is coming up as they realize we're succeeding and our renaissance is winning
They're getting more and more panicked. I don't want to be overconfident here though. What are they going to do in your research view?
They will attempt to take my life. They will attempt to do whatever they do to assassinate your organization
They will attempt to stifle the truth. They will attempt to hold on to whatever power they have but weirdly
Here's the problem the universe is in control. It's not their own world and
Godspeed to them. I mean I I do pray for forgiveness. We must prosecute them for their crimes
certain things cannot go
Unrecognized, but at a certain level forgiveness needs to be the moniker because what we're doing I agree
I would give them abstention
I mean, I would I would I would give them a truce that they stop the problem is they can't stop we'll finish up then
With you and then we got dr. Corsi coming on about the deep state's latest targets. This is all exclusive world changing straight ahead stay with us
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is ascending down
Over the u.k. They're set to pass rules not a law
That if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the u.k.
CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the left
Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship
brainwash young people against info wars
Psychologically inoculate them with lies
So they don't actually hear what we have to say. We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist
It is so critical that you go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter
So we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't bully their way in and block
Us being able to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight
We will prevail if you take action and I know you will
Any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with
High-quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by dr
Jones
That's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
And your purchase of the products
Stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us. So we need your support
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages
Having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select storable food
You can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
With drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year
There's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals
Including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner
Info wars life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need
They even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go
And you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life selects storable foods
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor
That's right. Now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers
Go to info wars store.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
That's easy to use and let me tell you something
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals
Whoo, that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating
You know like what you get at the grocery store. There is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain
97% of the foods taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years
Now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer
So what are you waiting for check it out right now at info wars store.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
The answer to 1984 is 1776
You're listening to the alex jones show
So everyone's heard of social engineers
But do we ever ask who programs the engineering? What are the big megabanks the foundations the universities? What do they want?
Well, we know what they want those of us that have studied it and info wars is about getting you
believing in you to simply look at information and to become part of the debate
You've got the globalist depopulation human austerity humans. Don't go to space some new species comes out of us
The silicon god that elan musk warns of that's the plan the people running things now have that plan
Their plan's going caddywampus. It's getting derailed right now. It's in trouble, but you can't just counter a plan with no plan
What is our plan?
So Zach great doll didn't pay treat with a lot of amazing sources. I know who you are the listeners won't soon you'll reveal who you are on air
What is the bigger plan that Kanye West talks about?
We are going to the stars
The people who try to keep us
held down and pinned at each other's necks don't realize this idea
It is explained and realized that the universe is an incident and the idea of infinite makes them very uncomfortable
Because when you have a victim
You have to keep them held down
You have to keep them to a small proximity. You have to keep on feeding them a narrative of why they are a victim
But the reality becomes is that we're god-sent
This is our time
We will be connected. There is not racism. We are one race the human race and that idea that we are one race the human race
Stifles everything that they've done for hundreds of years to keep us down
That is it
That is it and that is very uncomfortable if you've made your bones and made your momentum in your life's work based on being
And notice they say that great truth that we all know but then they exacerbate the differences
They go, oh, we're for everybody being unified
But they ignore Martin Luther King and then promote the total division. It's completely clear and thanks to Kanye like you said just you know
full spectrum of
Full spectrum reality
What are those key terms you were talking about about about the real reality tv show of the universe full spectrum drama
Full spectrum drama because politicians, you know should have been the most effective individual leaders and
You know attention-getters, but unfortunately through social media or maybe fortunately who knows evolution happens
It happens to be celebrities
So with celebrities getting the most attention at the time and the most ears here and the most eyes here and the most, you know
Uh attention it's celebrities
So we're going and it's not just you telling me this i've talked to other sources that trump five years six years ago
Met with conya. They planned all this out. They didn't even want to do this
They hoped that we get better and and and and now the the courage of conya and his wife going and
You know the way she breaks the ice about letting blacks out of prison that we're giving unfair sentences
I'll leave you. I'll leave you guys with this and I want to take too much more courses time
I'll leave you with this once we go multi-planetary the race cards out the window. There's one race the human race
And if you think conya's the last celebrity to come out in the next two months, you're wrong
You will be shocked in the next two months. I've sat down in meetings with individuals which will reveal
Here shortly mean yourself in Austin, Texas. I will reveal my identity, but the idea of what's occurring
Um will come to fruition is there's no let's just be clear elon musk and everybody we can is involved
All of this and just a pro human
pro
Uh growth future where we're not all nasty and we don't depopulate everybody and we can go to the stars
That's what's being discussed here. That's what's being promoted and that's why they're so upset
And that's why obama's on record with jz saying get to all the rappers. Don't let them meet with trump
They are really scared. Where's obama where where where is obama? He's radio silent
He's radio silent. He's supposed to be this messiah. I don't think so. He doesn't speak for the community
He doesn't speak for the culture, but make no mistake the culture will speak
Culture will speak. God bless you. Zach you're coming for a full hour this week. Thank you
God godspeed brother
all right
Now dr. Um course. He has written three number one new york times bestsellers
He has predicted so much of what's going on. He's got amazing white house sources
and then he said in a recent report
That shan hattie's the next target of the deep state and hattie says well course
He's credible isn't your best-selling book the killing of the deep state
But you know am I really a target? I don't know they're writing your lawyer
They're throwing out your sponsors. So I wanted to get in with him here
If we play clip of hannity
Yes, hannity's the target because if they can get alex jones shan hannity as media personalities
They can get everybody and that's why all these other media personalities think
Hannity's their competition or I am it's not like that
We stand together for free speech with with google listing the entire republican party is nazi or they're gonna get us all
So I feel good that hannity's huge and number one. I don't go. Oh god. I could be a bigger man if hannity was you know
No, he's under attack because he's promoting free market in americana. Here's a clip. We'll go to dr. Corsi
Remember when senator chuck schumer said that you better not mess with the intel community because they're gonna get you six ways to sunday
This is great news for me best-selling author. Jerome Corsi. He's the author of this book
It's out now in bookstores on amazon.com barns and noble.com. It's called killing the deep state
You might remember him. He was back. Remember the group against john carry vietnam bets for truth
He was one of them
He's saying that yours truly that I shan hannity and the next target
of the deep state
Wow, isn't it so great to know that these corrupt officials with their backs against the wall that are desperate desperate people
All right. He goes on the time and already played it to say he's never backing down. He's never giving up
That's the commitment we need show again
Um, they're scared dr. Corsi give us your intel with a specific so folks get more specifics on the intel you've got about their targeting of
Sean hannity
Well, it's the same kind of plan that was used to
To target any number of conservatives to get them off the illude doves is one good example
And what the the plan is is to go after the sponsors
And you know knowing there's a change in leadership within fox
That the going after the sponsors because hannity is one of the most effective
Speakers against every day with his monologue. Well, he's the number one guy on tv
Right and and alex you're a target too. I mean you've got to understand. I know
I mean, you know the you know the with the
Bueller investigation in terms of looking at now
Alex, you know, alex jones will be right after roger stone. I mean these are the well, no, they're bringing this up now
But but but I agree with you and well tell us about your intel sources because you're right
I mean they want to get hannity. They hate his ass
Right and the intel sources are very clear. I mean the intelligence people are saying watch out
That you know the the this deep state and is I after anyone who speaks out
Effectively in support of donald trump and alex you've been the most disruptive media in the world against the mainstream media
They know this. I mean your audience is huge
What we've done at info wars is constantly bring up the truth
And the deep state can't stand the truth. They don't want the truth
Broadcast just as you were doing with zack, you know, they use a deep state plan
I agree, but they particularly hate that trump watches hannity every day
Tapes him when he can't see him watches him in the morning and they hate the fact that
hannity
Interfaces with the president and and and and and and and you know gives him gives him
sucker gives him
Aiding and abetting that they really don't want hannity
Well, you know, it's it's also I mean it's clear that the deep state because of hannity's ties to donald trump the fact that donald trump listens to fox
And he keys off much of what fox says and you know my book killing these exactly they tried to block hannity
They've tried to buy the fact is we're winning at fox. That's why I'm saying it's not about me
Let's get past exactly it's hannity hannity because if they can get him
They got a plan to shut me down the next few years
It's going to fail, but they can have that immediacy with hannity because he doesn't control fox right and in fact
you know the entire plan from google and the others to
To eliminate conservatives before the midterm, but I was blocked for google
They they put me off until we seriously objected
President trump said that there's going to be a regulation in the federal trade commission of all the clear they banned your channel
Yeah, and said it was nazi till you threatened to sue and they put it back just like they just called the entire republican party in
california nazi when we come back we're gonna talk about that and that's what i'm saying folks
They'll pick whoever thinks the most colorful whoever they think they can misrepresent like me
I said a lot of stuff out of context they can do okay. I admit it
I don't have a filter they take that and they admit once they get me
It's limbaugh. It's hannity. It's coursey. It's drudge. It's everybody. So let's be clear hang together
Hang separate. We'll be back with dr. Corsi on the other side stay with us
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
The real drama can be found here in leilani estates
But a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals
Alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater
Next we tested the water from our elixapyrid gravity filter
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure
But the pH was also restored to optimal levels
As it turns out the filter on the elixapyrid raises the pH of the water
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
But more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line
Super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles
Immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula
Just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins
With powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
With super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at infowarslife.com
That's infowarslife.com
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years
perfecting their techniques based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions
We've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up america patriot blend coffee
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions
Patriot blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend
Infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of patriot blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
Biotrue selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
Biotrue selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 percent organic mustard seed
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
Ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones
You may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog
Survival shield x2 and Biotrue selenium work together to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival shield x2
and Biotrue selenium at infowarslife.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
Defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic
It's alex jones
Remember the globalists
The big mega banks the big tax exempt guys worth hundreds of billions
who are anti free market ally of the communist china
Are betting on the fact that we don't rally behind each other. I don't think of myself as an individual
I'm an individualist when I look at other libertarian nationalist conservative host the enemy's trying to shut down
I've got basic instinct when they're trying to shut down sean hannity or anybody else
They're trying to shut us down and god knows they are
But dr. Corsi's talked to his intel sources and they say the next big target's hannity to try to bring down fox during this merger
That's happening with the new foxes are calling it versus the split-off with entertainment and disney
And corsi's never steered me wrong on his sources. So
Oh, we have to stand together here and realize what's going on because if they can knock down a big domino like hannity
They believe they can get all the dominoes going with their political correctness
and
at the same time
They can hire somebody like roseanne and say she's a conservative and destroy her
Try to set that precedent that people see through it. So dr. Corsi
Let's roll through this and then other big developments that are happening
Well, it's very clear that there's a concerted attack the intelligent source
So why I went public with it is there's I wanted to warn hannity
That that he has been targeted by the deep state
There's going to be a direct attack on the advertisers going to be a direct attack to get hannity off the air
And with new control coming into fox the main target is to get hannity gone
Hannity is gone. The deep state believes they can control the narrative. This is an info war
It's clearly an info war and hannity is a threat because hannity every night
Is exposing and showing the american people what the deep state has done in this coup d'etat to remove
Donald trump from the office of president
And it's a threat because because hannity like alex jones like us have a great audience
So the deep state is targeted that the next person to remove from the air
From fox is hannity and it's a real threat and i'm pleased that hannity listened to it and broadcasted on the air
Of course, you know, it's not credible. You are your history show our only credibility is our credibility
what about
Google
censoring everybody
That's that's you know, right of hillary and then now listing the republican party as nazis
I mean that should show the president and everybody. It's time to break them up for economic reasons. There aren't any monopolies
Google's 92 percent of search functions was 93 percent, but just the fact that there's such
Bastards, they're so corrupt. There's such liars
I mean, we have to move against these people. It's not like we're trying to get a free speech
They're trying to take our speech. They're all organized apples move to china. China's got the codes everybody's phones. I mean
I'm not mad at trump. He's great, but
He can't be afraid to move on the offense when we're already under attack. What should we do about this?
Well, I think tom trump is increasingly realizing the powers of the presidency
And I think he's going to continue
First of all to get rid of muller muller has got to go
But this deep and I agree before they cook up some he's got to use it when the economy's going when people are behind him
He's got to use the power now
I get these foreign forces. It's not like he's fighting some internal forces. These are freaking chi-com forces
They own hollywood now. Did you I mean the president could do anything at this point
And the cia and the department of justice still remain under deep state control
rosinstein and sessions are our sessions are completely ineffective
rosinstein is running the department of justice and the
cia is still anti trump at a deep deep level
Uh, the the google's all of the facebook's hate any conservatives or libertarians
And it shows the desperation to list all republicans as nazis
Knowing people are searching the names. I mean that right there. It shows there's no into sjw's you go on the street
sjw's are like demonic animals
I mean, we're not the ones trying to end civilization. They are we must stand against them
And the you know the deep states does not want the truth told it is an infill war and the deep state is already
I mean, alex google's already attacked both you and me google's no, I know they've already laid waste to us
But our listeners get it. They bypass them. What i'm saying is I agree
So now that they're saying republicans are all nazis shouldn't that organize republicans to understand that google is a
clear and present danger absolutely and donald trump's got to use now the effective power of the federal trade commission
To begin the act of censorship
To end the censorship in all of these social media entities
They're all aimed at
Absolutely ending any message that supports that's right. We must end the censorship
We must end the censorship. We must have an internet bill of rights of some sort
We must have the federal trade commission come in and start breaking up the power doesn't this show their desperation
Doesn't it show their desperation that they're pulling crap like this?
But in their deeps and their desperation they can do everything they can
To shadow to shadow ban and to block a conservative message from being on the internet
This is why we've got to continue to fight it. Donald Trump's got to listen. He is listening
He's got to take steps and active steps now get the federal trade commission engage
Even amazon with its control a washington post. They're on a register as a lobbyist
Donald trump's got to move on these and i think he's ready to it's got to actively use the full power of the presidency
Knowing that the american people are behind donald trump to end the effort of the deep state
Your deep state is controlled by silicon valley. Also
cia controls. It's the it's the larry ellison ellison's
All of the sys goes the microsoft systems. These are the deep state if facebook goes they'll replace facebook with a facebook 2.0
And it will be as determined a censor any conservatives as the original facebook
We've got to go after the power of silicon valley. Absolutely trump's got to break its back
It'll be good for business good for the country. Anyways, we've got to get these people out of the way the the bizarre
Leftist commitment of alphabet and google and twitter and facebook and apple
To merge with china and all of this they
What is the power behind these tech giants because i know they were set up by our own agencies
They hate america. They hate they were ready to have hillary president
We were all going to be found for for you know thought crimes all the deplorables
Anything they all had big old giant, you know what's ready for the purge, didn't they absolutely?
We're all going to be convicted of thought thought crime because we disagreed with the
You know for religious grounds who want to be able to object to the lbgt agreement
We want to be able to to say we want first amendment
What a second amendment we want a strong fourth amendment to end the cia's
Collection of massive data against conservatives and libertarians
And donald trump has the power of the presidency now
He's got to begin to actively use it the people will be behind donald trump. I totally agree
Let me say this in closing and come back this week with us dr. Corsi
Certainly talk about your book all of it when you sit back and you look at this
Histories on our side people want freedom
And you look at the globalists you look at trump success
I don't know how they think they're gonna win when the tide is only turning against them, but they don't give up
They only continue to double down
Well because it it is an info wars and at the final analysis
You know freedom wins and god wins, but it's going to need god needs the support the act of support of
of shawnt hennedy of alex jones of myself
And then many other voices who are out there supporting the concert that's right and let's just have to understand
They're not known by google yet. You start a new website. You start a new video. You talk about big issues
It's going to go viral
Because it's not been blocked yet when the people turn loose against ai
It's a fight between corrupt despots with communist china the corrupt vatican the eu
And free humanity and if you'll just get off the and folks you're supporting us you're spreading the links you're buying products
That's great, but if you
Will start a website or call c-span or do a youtube video or go to city council and speak every little bit
Your voice will bring them down. We're beginning to win dr. Corsi
What we are the people are sovereign and we've got to continue everyone listening today
We need everybody's support. We need the act of support of the american people to get behind
Donald trump and to say that end this google censorship
End the silicon valley control of the media and they see just a year and a half of trump having partial control
Things turning around. It's so clear folks. It's so clear. Thank you dr. Corsi. We'll talk to you soon. Thank you
My pleasure. Thank you. Wow. We're out of time. Great job the crew tomorrow 8 a.m. David knight in the real news
Uh 11 a.m. I'll enjoy or myself right through to the war room
Please pray for us. We're praying for you. This is such an incredible battle. It's so exciting
But you're the power behind it
Don't forget free shipping on all our best-selling pharmaceuticals on storable foods. You name it a bunch of great get get a t-shirt
There's so many great t-shirts. It's like choose your own adventure. We're a molon lambe
You'll get nothing but love from gun owners because the libtards don't know what it means or an input war shirt or trust my president
You're going to meet a lot of friends a lot of enemies. Choose your own adventure get a t-shirt today in full or store.com
In force life com for the supplements, whatever you do
Commit to that and and wear your colors loud and proud exercise free speech out there. It's amazing. All right coming up
We've got a big report a next hour
With mike adams getting into huge issues on this same station
Same video stream coming up with mike adams on the other side of this
So spread the word on that and then tomorrow morning. We'll be back live 8 a.m news wars.com
That's the new site news wars.com
Years ago info wars life created the powerful
micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment
Our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health
Michael zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing
Of yeast and fungal organisms
There's no better product to help your body fight back
Michael zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body
Support your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients
Including grapefruit seed extract pal d'arco bark and grape seed extract
Our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful
Microb balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life.com
That's info wars life.com
President trump gave a speech on friday at the naval academy for their commencement and said america is back
hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore
But patriots that believe in real americana are back in charge and the world is taking notice
Ladies and gentlemen to celebrate memorial day and the great sacrifices of our veterans
We are offering free shipping and info wars store.com
And 50 off on more than 20 best-selling items like brain force the amazing new tropic
Help support the information war get great products at the same time and continue to fund an operation that is
The thorn on the side of the globalist and is continuing to back president trump and other patriots not just here but worldwide
In support of free market capitalism
Support of christianity support a family support a basic freedom
Huge memorial day specials running throughout this weekend until the month of may ends
And in full war store.com and in force life.com take advantage today
You're listening to the alex jones show
