Well, Gert Wilders has now decided to spearhead Tommy Robinson protests in London.
Of course, the truth about why Tommy Robinson was arrested is the scariest thing.
Here's a report from our own John Bowne with the latest.
This is why Tommy Robinson is being held as a political prisoner.
That's why Tommy Robinson is being held as a political prisoner.
Hospitals have rules with patients and things like that.
Well, because I'm dyslexic when I want to be, I don't understand rules.
Jimmy Savile's victims have faced years of pain.
We owe it to them and to our audiences to understand how this could have happened
and to make sure that everything we do ensures that nothing like this could ever happen again.
Folks, you ask, there's a bizarre satanic ritual being described by children in a video.
Tell us about that.
Yeah, this is a chilling video, whether it's hoax or not.
I mean, it's gone completely viral over the weekend.
It's got over a thousand comments on Reddit.
It's got 200,000 views on the original YouTube video.
And it's basically two young children describing how they were allegedly sexually abused
and forced to partake in bizarre satanic baby sacrifice rituals.
Now, after decades of neglect, finally, England must now answer to why the powers that be
quietly allowed, mainly Pakistani, Kurdish and Kosovoan Muslim men, according to court records,
to form a network of sex trafficking rings all across Great Britain
to sadistically rape thousands of English girls for roughly four decades.
We seem to be looking at millions of rapes of white and Sikh girls by Muslim men.
Only 222 of whom have been convicted since 2005.
To say, my Lords, will the government ask our Muslim leaders whether the perpetrators
can claim that their behavior is sanctioned in the Quran and to issue a fatwa against it?
And second, my Lords, will the government encourage a national debate about the various
interpretations of Islam?
Can we talk about Islam without being accused of hate crime?
And when you look back to the, for example, the 1970s, we had something like 200,000 Muslims
in Britain at that time.
But every decade, they've doubled since then.
So the 200,000 became 400,000 became 800,000.
We're now up to 3.2 million.
But as they grow, they start demanding more and they start pushing more.
And because they back this up with terrorism and with jihad, the government listens to them.
You know, when Mohamed said, I have been made victorious through terror, he's speaking absolutely the truth.
And our government understands the fact that they are frightened of Islam.
And they, Islam pushes and our government buckles.
The most recent scandal known as the Telfer scandal was a network of 200 plus Muslim men gang raping local children.
While another major incident known as the Rotherham scandal from 1997 to 2013 affected at least 1,400 children.
Some had reported being doused with gasoline witnessing violent rape and had their families threatened if they talked.
A 2013 inquiry into the Rotherham child sexual exploitation uncovered a local government unwilling to address the problem
due to contempt for the working class, a fear of being deemed racist and protection of its reputation.
The local government of Rotherham had in a sense been raped of its morality and duty.
And the only person that is apparently going to pay the price for it is Tommy Robinson, who is simply reporting on it.
Free Tommy Robinson now, John Bown reporting for Infowars.com.
But it doesn't stop there now in Europe.
France, France has fake news laws that are leaving media experts uneasy.
So free speech in Europe, well if it's not dead, it's barely got a pulse.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
Indeed, yes, here I am on this Tuesday, June 5th, 2018, filling in for Alex Jones, who tries to take a vacation.
But the universe says, not quite yet, Mr. Jones.
As Alex is heading out for vacation, he runs into the leader of the Democrat socialist movement, Bernie Sanders.
Now, there's a lot of interesting things in this video, but how about the fact that Bernie Sanders pretty much doesn't even energize a crowd anymore?
Doesn't that show you how the momentum that the left had or thought they had is really coming to a crashing halt where no one even cares that Bernie's at the airport?
And then you just look at this guy, and you can just see how low energy he is, where his own soyboy security guard has more energy and courage than Bernie does to actually stand up to Alex Jones.
I mean, the guy made a fool of himself, but hey, give him credit, at least he tried.
So Alex Jones tries to go on vacation, the universe gives him Bernie Sanders to confront, and here is the aftermath of that.
They didn't know Bernie Sanders.
Dude, no, come on, not right now.
Why'd you say why people didn't know what it was like before?
When you're white, you don't know what it's like to be living in a ghetto. You don't know what it's like to be poor.
Go, Senator, go, Senator, go, Senator.
Ladies and gentlemen, we just got off our plane here at LAX, and Bernie Sanders, the living embodiment of communist and socialist evil and failure, was here.
A living museum piece of Mao Zedong or Joseph Stalin or V.I. Lenin.
In fact, after the death of Hugo Chavez, he passed on the mantle. But of course his little handlers wouldn't let him talk to some proletariat slave like me.
And so this went on for a while. Then he left the gate, we went to the store, he came back by and we talked to him again.
But then his minions came over and put out the same old democratic talking points they do over and over and over again.
You talk about brainwash sheep, you're going to see some of those as well. So here it is.
Go on board and see your captain. Don't leave us, we'll be in 40 minutes.
Oh, they didn't know Bernie Sanders.
Dude, no, come on, no, right now. No, Senator.
Why'd you say why people didn't know us like before?
Because you guys are from our first class, aren't you?
Why's he running?
Probably why.
You guys fought first class, you shouldn't be.
I got a coach to get my pocket.
You don't need that Venezuela. I like $100,000 around me. I'm going to walk this way.
Don't touch me.
You just hit me, bro.
You put your hand out, Alex.
Oh, you're going to do that socialist thing where you're like bumping the people into it?
Alex, I'm walking back.
Hey, Bernie.
Bernie, where are you running, bro?
There we go. Carl Robes didn't run like this. He was talking to me.
I'll talk to you.
You want to have a conversation?
Well, he said why people didn't know us like before. This is why people are more.
Why? Because you're following?
He said why people don't know what it's like before.
That was a really racist thing to say.
When you're white, you don't know what it's like to be living in a ghetto.
You don't know what it's like to be poor.
You don't know what it's like to be hassled when you walk down the street
or you get dragged out of a car.
You guys are so afraid of stuff.
Wow, Bernie's here. He's running.
There we go.
Don't worry. Get my beautiful face on camera.
Don't worry. We'll destroy America.
We'll turn it into Venezuela.
There's over here.
Look, look, right there.
Bernie, why'd you say why people don't know what it's like to be poor?
Don't touch me. Alex, don't touch me.
Don't touch me, Alex.
You guys have fun.
Gotta be around the general public, huh?
It's kind of a bad thing.
You're on the proletariat like that and you're a ruling class commie, huh?
You guys have fun.
You're having fun. We're all having fun, aren't we?
We're gonna win. Don't worry. America's going back.
America's going back.
We're gonna win.
Have a good one.
The truth is, the left is the most vicious evil ideology the planet's ever seen.
It's a historical fact. They always lecture us how we're violent, we're bad.
They're the ones that want to abort all the babies.
They're the ones that want to block Trump being able to have all the experimental cures and treatments
given to people that were terminal.
They're the people that love the culture of death.
It's like Bernie supported Black Lives Matter.
Just like he wouldn't decry the cop killers when they killed cops.
That's the type of monster a cold-blooded person that Sanders is.
He wants to overthrow this country, be a conquest.
Bernie Sanders, he's a monster.
Mr. Sanders, why do you think socialism works better than capitalism?
And why do you live in a capitalist country?
I don't know why you're running from me.
Where are you flying today?
You're gonna apologize to the Sandy Hook families, Alex?
Well, that's the media that this represents that.
You apologize for all the wars you guys launched in the Democrats.
All the millions you killed.
Do you enjoy living in a million-dollar vacation house as Bernie?
Or do you want to give those to people?
Yeah, your $100,000 outies.
Anyways, anyways, anyways.
You guys have fun.
We love reporting all that money.
You guys running a little PR stuff.
It's not gonna work.
Have fun, you know.
Good luck, but Google gets broken up.
I apologize to the Sandy Hook family, Alex.
You guys need to.
You've made those places fix from his armadones.
And advertised them.
What do you think about the fact that 98% of mass shootings
occur in gun-free zones, Bernie?
Do you want to get rid of those?
Why do you stop being an idiot for a second?
It's okay.
I know it's okay.
Are you mad at Hillary Stoly-Lashover, ma'am?
No, you don't care about that.
I'm mad at your Sandy Hook denier.
That's all. You guys are religion.
You think that's like some big thing.
Who's my guy? Who's my guy? What guy am I?
I mean, you like Hillary. What guy am I?
No, you like Hillary. Did I bring up Hillary?
No, don't worry.
You deny Sandy Hook,
and you're giving him a hard time.
No, Hillary edited tapes of that.
Oh, Hillary edited tapes of Sandy Hook.
Yeah, that's right.
You win.
Why don't you talk about all the wars and stuff that's killed millions of people?
Or Hillary launching the whole thing
and living and destabilizing the whole country
instead of feeling good about yourself?
Yeah, you're a virtueist signaler.
Yeah, so...
What are the truths that got there?
Do you deny Benghazi, Hillary?
You guys are losing.
The worlds are like the socialism
and all the so-called elite intelligence
are totally elected.
Oh, yeah.
I get what's going on here.
Just showing that you are.
Anyways, I gotta go.
You guys have a great day.
One less idiot in L.A. is good.
Well, L.A. is trying to hit their idiot.
Max, I'm not sure who one of them is.
Hey, Bernie, why don't you say white people
don't know what it's like to be poor?
Why aren't you so racist?
You won't answer that, but you did say it.
Move to Venezuela, Bernie.
You like it. People like you there.
So, over and over again,
they want to change the subject from communism
and socialism, destroying hundreds of countries
and killing over 200 million people.
They want to change the subject
to myself and others
asking questions about big public events
that are used to blame the Second Amendment.
This is incredible, but as long as they can't
guilt you into their mind control, they fail.
They are sociopaths and psychopaths.
Leftist and globalist
are there to manipulate those of us that have feelings.
So, again, ladies and gentlemen,
Bernie Sanders checked off the bucket list
running like a cowardly rat
into a sewer away from serious questions.
When you're white,
you don't know what it's like
to be living in a ghetto.
You don't know what it's like to be poor.
There he is.
Bernie Sanders
confronted by Alex Jones
at LA International,
and I'm sure we'll be hearing from Alex Jones again today
before the broadcast is over.
Now, I have people asking me
when are the specials going to end?
I need to take advantage. The end of this week,
at the end of this week,
the specials will end.
The Memorial Day specials extended
to the early summer specials.
Free shipping,
half-off, tons of our supplements,
like Supermail Vitality,
Brainforce Plus.
It's all at InfowarsStore.com,
and then when you take advantage of the great specials
at InfowarsStore.com,
free shipping store-wide,
you also support Alex Jones
and Infowars and everything we do here.
And we're expanding.
So you're going to fund our expansion,
taking advantage of the specials
at InfowarsStore.com, including
free shipping store-wide. We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
Heart and Body Extract 866-295-5305
or hbextract.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out
and written what I think is the best
ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis,
and our government is now being run
and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out.
Just because you're awake, folks,
doesn't mean other people aren't.
This is critical to get, to read,
to give them library, to give them
the church. Get them right now
at KillingUncleSanBook.com.
KillingUncleSanBook.com.
It's easy to use, and let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze-drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts,
and entire meals.
Woo! That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation,
like canning or dehydrating,
you know, like what you get at the grocery store,
there is no comparison.
Harvest-right freeze dryers retain 97%
of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle
of food preservation.
Harvest-right is truly the world's best,
most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now
at InfoWarsStore.com.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough
in modern medicine,
introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new,
natural way to alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms, including
promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways,
eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France
noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experienced less seasonal immune
and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect
in published trials, and decades later,
we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually
acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies
immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
This is the Alex Jones Show
filling in for Alex Jones.
I'm Owen Schreuer, and okay,
I've got a bunch of news that I need to cover
during the three hours that I'm here
before Paul Joseph Watson takes over
in the fourth hour.
What you can expect, Dr. Jerome Corsi
is going to join me in the second hour
at 12.06.
I'm sure we'll be discussing the latest
when it comes to the Russian collusion claim
where now you've got the Mueller team
and prosecutors saying that Paul Manafort
needs to be put in jail for tampering with witnesses.
Now, this is a razor's edge
that this Russian collusion
that Mueller probe is now walking on
where they are essentially threatening
to jail Manafort.
They're putting that idea out there
that maybe will jail you,
thinking I suppose that they can still try
to quote unquote flip him on Trump,
even though there's nothing to flip,
and they know that.
But who knows, maybe there's something
from eons ago that Trump did to,
I don't know, not pay a tax or something.
I mean, who knows, some crazy something like that.
But probably that's not even going to happen.
That's not even the case.
But why are they saying
Manafort attempted to tamper with witnesses?
Well, the same principle that you apply
to everything going on
via the Mueller probe right now
applies here.
They are tampering with witnesses.
The Mueller team is tampering with witnesses.
The deep state that launched this spy operation
into Trump's campaign,
which we're now dating back to as soon as April,
I think it's April 2015,
I'd have to review those documents one more time,
but it's all coming out now.
And then Chuck Ross has the story in the Daily Caller,
Papadopoulos wife,
Trump aide was absolutely not involved
in Russian collusion.
It goes through the whole story.
Papadopoulos gets set up
at a meeting with some misfud.
A conversation goes down
where they're discussing Hillary's emails
where misfud says that he believes
that the Russians have the Hillary emails.
Then Papadopoulos is at another meeting.
They pulled that story back up
because I forgot the guy's name
and I didn't print the other pages of this story.
Then Papadopoulos, again,
having a conversation at a bar
where their drinks, I don't know, doesn't matter.
And he's talking to some, not misfud, go down.
He's talking to the guy from Australia
who's an Australian British intelligence officer.
And he tells them that he's heard
that the Russians have Hillary emails.
And then that Australian tells his,
I shouldn't say handlers,
but shall we say connections, informants?
There he is, Downer, Alexander Downer,
Australia's High Commissioner to the UK.
He goes back and tells British intelligence,
hey, this guy's claiming the Russians
have compromising information on Hillary Clinton.
Then he goes Downer and tells US intelligence,
hey, this guy from Trump's campaign
claims that the Russians have Hillary Clinton's emails.
Well, he heard that from misfud.
That's not even his own proprietary thought
or idea or information.
And now it gets to the US intelligence.
And so what do they end up doing?
Well, now we've got new documents
with the redacted Peter Stroke texts
that we now know as far back as July 2015,
which is when Stefan Halpert was getting paid
and entered the payroll, the informant,
the spy who was working with James Comey.
And then you find out that that is also
when they launched their spy operation
into Trump's campaign.
Now, that's a story from a while ago
that the crew just pulled up.
White House is running this.
Yeah, Obama wanted oversight of the whole thing.
New redacted texts have other...
I'd have to pull it up,
but they have different phrases and words in there.
They were basically using spies.
I think it's on-killist spies.
I forget what the letters are,
but they say lures.
And it used to be redacted lures,
but now lures is out there and that's spies.
So they were basically putting in
foreign intelligence operatives
out for Papadopoulos to talk to
as lures or spies to then get the fake intel
that the Russians had Hillary emails,
which then makes it back to the United States
that the Russians have compromising information on Hillary,
which then somehow magically transforms
into we must spy on the Trump campaign.
And we've got all the documents.
We've got the redacted texts.
We have the FISA documents.
We've got it all.
Obama's caught red-handed.
Comey's caught red-handed.
The entire intelligence community is caught red-handed.
McCabe is caught red-handed.
The list goes on and on and on.
So why then are they threatening to jail Manafort
for tampering with witnesses
because they tampered with witnesses?
They are the ones that were tampering with Papadopoulos.
They are the ones that have been tampering with this
quote-unquote Russian probe since the very outset
where they're spying on the Trump campaign
as early as July 2015.
Here we are June 2018.
How much evidence of Russian collusion do they have?
Zero.
But what is the ultimate irony?
The Trump campaign seems to believe
that the Russians have compromising information
on Hillary Clinton.
What would that be?
Could it be the emails that Hillary Clinton
deleted from her illegal server?
Could it be the information that she bleached bit
from her illegal servers?
Could it be the information and data
that was on the servers that were literally
smashed by a hammer?
No.
Actually, there's an element of truth to this.
For you see, the Russians did
have compromising information on Hillary Clinton.
It's called Uranium One.
Amazing.
So here the Russians are making deals
with Hillary Clinton, Uranium One,
actual dirt on Hillary Clinton,
somehow gets spun into the Russians have
Hillary Clinton's deleted emails,
which is only a story,
because Hillary Clinton broke the law to begin with.
And so now, to bring it home,
former U.S. Navy Christian Sausier
is suing Obama and Comey
for selectively prosecuting him in the case
of mishandling classified information
where he was charged,
Hillary Clinton guilty of the same thing,
gets no jail time, gets nothing,
gets an extra special back brace
so that a spineless fraud and thief
like Hillary Clinton can still walk around
and give speeches.
So Mueller's team tampered with witnesses,
Hillary Clinton colluded with the Russians,
and it's all blowing up in their face.
I tried other brands,
but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief,
get a sunny-bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck
or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny-bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians
said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain
is heat therapy?
Sunny-bay heating pads are handmade with high quality,
can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating
on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny-bay heating pads alone
and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer
can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products
with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find sunny-bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for sunny-bay heating pads.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you
about the 60-plus products,
we have it in Fuller's life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor
to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue,
colloidal silver, and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine,
super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering in FullerStore.com
and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part
of the Second American Revolution.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Select Storeable Foods.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality,
organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium, organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com
or call 1-888-888-888-888.
InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
I wasn't intending to go on that rabbit trail
in the last segment with Manafort
and the Mueller probe and Papadopoulos,
but we got that out of the way.
But there's all kinds of other news,
and I really wanted to get back into that
with Dr. Corsi, who's going to join me at 1206.
In similar news, though,
we mentioned Saucier suing Obama and Comey
for sparring Hillary Clinton
and prosecuting him for the exact same crimes.
Oh, but Obama was the scandal-free president.
So this story must be fake news.
This, this, no, no, no, no.
I don't know, Obama's scandal-free!
Come on, man!
Oh, you know, I think we've got a news crew
doing a man on the street right now
that is going to be asking people
a certain question about Obama.
I wonder if they'll be able to answer it.
Looking forward to that.
In similar news, Imran Awan
allegedly tried to hide his money
while DOJ negotiates with him.
Former Democrat IT staffer Imran Awan
allegedly tried to hide his money.
Awan's lawyer claims his client
does not have a pot to piss in.
Awan is currently under FBI investigation
over unauthorized access, house servers,
and is indicted on charges of bank fraud.
Of course, he had all sorts of phony businesses
that his brothers were running
and probably laundering money out of.
That's where the bank fraud comes from.
Getting paid millions and millions of dollars
by the Democrat Party for this IT work.
Now, they're trying to hide this money
and his lawyer's claiming he's broke.
Well, where'd all that money go then, bro?
You and your brothers made millions.
And what did the Democrats know about the Awans?
I wonder if they knew anything about the Awans,
they wouldn't have hired them.
Unless, of course, they were engaging
in something other than politics.
Hmm.
Maybe they're paying the Awans this exorbitant amount of cash
because they want it laundered.
Hmm. I don't know.
Maybe that's why this comes from Luke Rosiak
at the Daily Caller.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz screamed
at house officials to kill hacking probe
intervened in Pakistani criminal manner.
Well, this is Debbie Wasserman Schultz
freaking out right now
because she knows she's caught guilty dead to rights.
But I'm going to get into both of those stories
with Dr. Corsi in the next hour.
And in the meantime,
I'm going to cover some of this other news
to just get it out of the way.
This is a heartbreaker here.
Amber Alert issued in Virginia, North Carolina
after police say registered sex offender
snatched seven-month-old baby.
And they believe that this baby is in immediate
and serious danger.
Hmm, hmm, hmm.
You have to...
Boy.
Seven-month-old baby kidnapped by a registered sex offender.
Now, there may be some other ripples to this story.
We'll see if anybody wants to cover it.
But it's really just sick that people are that sick.
I think really is what that comes down to.
Boy, where do you go from there?
Okay, well...
Paul Joseph Watson has the story that got linked on Drudge Day.
Bilderberg Globalists concerned about populist uprising in Europe.
So amongst the topics of discussion at the Bilderberg Group,
you have populism in Europe.
They can't stand that.
They want communism.
They have the U.S. midterm elections.
They have the post-truth world.
The post-truth world.
The post-truth world.
Oh, my gosh.
You realize how much truth has been kept from the general public?
I mean, unless you have a good history teacher coming up in American schools,
you won't know jack crap about human history.
A good history teacher in the United States doesn't even go from the textbook
because they know that about half of it's BS.
But, oh, see, now that we're actually entering a world where truth media is gaining footing,
now that we're entering a world where the President of the United States
just says things like it is, now it's a post-truth world.
It's been a post-truth world.
We're entering the post-post-truth world.
That's what this really is.
So the Bilderberg Group is going to be addressing how to deal with the post-post-truth world
or the truth world.
Yeah, there's the Washington Post.
Welcome to the post-truth presidency.
Oh, yes.
Not Obama, though.
Not Obama, but does Trump have a magic wand?
Economy records.
Oh, I said Trump up for that economy.
No, no, no, no.
That was the truth, President.
You want that doctor?
You keep that doctor.
Nope, you can't keep that doctor.
You love your health care plan.
You keep that health care plan.
Sorry, sorry.
You don't have that health care plan.
That's not your health care plan.
You built the business.
You didn't build that business.
I built that business.
So that's not the post-truth, President.
It's Trump who's the truth president.
So again, Trump is the post-post-truth president.
Obama is the post-truth president.
And they don't know what to do.
And the Bilderberg Group is going to be meeting in Italy,
which is right where a nationalist uprising is going on in the face of the EU right now.
So Paul Joseph Watson's story is up at infowars.com.
Now, the New York Times, like everyone else is having to admit that Trump knew what he
was doing with the North Korean trade deal, really just bamboozled the media and bamboozled
the Democrats who ended up siding with North Korea, praising the North Korean propaganda
head, Kim Jong-un's sister.
But the story from the New York Times is shocking because you read the story.
The headline is China's trade war with North Korea is set to soar.
China's trade with North Korea is set to soar with a Trump-Kim deal.
So yeah, North Korea is going to benefit.
Now they're going to have to do deals with China, not just sideways deals that China's
been taking advantage of North Korea on just basically keeping the power on over there.
And then you read the story and it's all about how now in North Korea they're going to have
a middle class.
And it's like there's a burgeoning middle class.
North Korea looks to have a middle class.
The new coming trade and the Trump-Kim deal is going to basically create a North Korean
economy where you can have a middle class.
But he's the post-truth president.
Okay, so he's not the post-communist president.
He's not the post-Korean war president.
He's the post-truth president.
I saw it on the same New York Times that actually printed that story admitting that he's probably
saving North Korea and creating a middle class there.
Here's Trump this morning, meeting in Singapore with North Korea.
Go back to that, guys.
Meeting in Singapore with North Korea will hopefully be the start of something big we will soon see.
That was President Trump this morning.
Of course, Kim Jong-un has to have someone pay for his hotel room because that's the dire
straights North Korea is in.
Now, I want to explain another story that you're probably seeing here with a little bit more detail.
Trump taunts NFL players after nixing Eagles White House visit.
Well, first of all, the quote-unquote taunt to me was more of just a joke.
But there were only going to be 10 Eagles that showed up.
So, of course, he wants to cancel it.
Only 10 Eagles are going to show up.
I'm sorry, he's got better things to do.
That's how he looks at this.
And as far as the taunt is concerned, it was more of a joke.
And if you don't see the connection with this story, Vince McMahon taps Andrew Luck's dad to be XFL's new commissioner.
You don't understand how Trump works.
The timing here is perfect.
Put Vince McMahon and his competition league with the NFL back in the headlines to put more pressure on the NFL.
This is the art of the deal.
This is what Trump does.
He has more friends and is more popular than the globalists.
Alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
President Trump gave a speech on Friday at the Naval Academy for their commencement and said,
America is back.
Hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore.
But patriots that believe in real Americana are back in charge.
And the world is taking notice.
Ladies and gentlemen, to celebrate Memorial Day and the great sacrifices of our veterans,
we are offering free shipping and infowarstore.com and 50% off on more than 20 best-selling items
like Brain Force, The Amazing Neutropic.
Help support the information war, get great products at the same time,
and continue to fund an operation that is the thorn on the side of the globalist
and is continuing to back President Trump and other patriots, not just here but worldwide,
in support of free market capitalism, support of Christianity, support of family,
support of basic freedom.
Huge Memorial Day specials are running throughout this weekend until the month of May ends.
And infowarstore.com and infowarslife.com take advantage today.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia.
You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when infowars and prison planet,
it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet
and I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all you get.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then I'm on the X2,
the SuperMail Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, MycoZX body, it's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know God,
the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there,
1776 World War.
Years ago, InfoWars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The implanting things in your brain is beyond the creepy line.
Take your deskie in your hands and don't let these people control your future.
Initialize my modem.
I've got one that can sing.
with 앉ing on a
prism.
Come on get down with the sickness
Get up, come on get down with the sickness
Open up a coffee and then they're going to make
Get up, come on get down with the sickness
You might not get up, come on get down with the sickness
You might not get up, come on get down with the sickness
And this has now come over me
Do you know what do we?
If you are receiving this transmission
You are the resistance
Well we've hit an interesting nexus point here
With humanity and the technology we use
And the merging of the two
Where it's becoming more and more a part of
Not just our daily routine but of us
Literally becoming almost part of us
Where the end game is of course to merge with machines
Will we be forced to merge with machines
Because the environment we will create
Will we volunteer to merge with machines
Because it's going to be trendy and liberal
And who doesn't want to have the best eyesight
In the world or whatever the case may be
Sonar who knows what they'll do
But the nexus point we've reached is
We're now recognizing what the technology
Is doing to us
We're now realizing how we're becoming slaves
To the technology and we're not just
Learning about the psychological side effects
But also the physical side effects
Where the 5G rollout could
I mean seriously who knows the devastating effects
Of the 5G rollout
The 6G you'll be game over
But we're kind of realizing all of this now
The tech companies knew it the whole time
There have been studies released that indicated this
Now they're just coming out with the real studies
That they knew the whole time
The 5G causing cancer, the light patterns
Manipulating your brain waves
I mean it's all out there
The crew is just going through all the stories right now
So I'm going to get into this here
But first you've got this story from Michael Snyder
The Department of Homeland Security
Plans to compile a list of all bloggers
Journalists and social media influencers
Now it's kind of a no duh situation
But Michael Snyder breaks it all down in the story
On his website, endoftheamericandream.com
But I just want to say this
Drudge links to this story
But links to the zero hedge link
To the story
So the story, the link goes to zero hedge on Drudge
Instead of end of the American dream
Where I just say, Matt Drudge
We need you to give Michael Snyder fair attention here
You know, he's running for Congress
So there's the link that Drudge links to on zero hedge
I really wish Drudge would have linked to the original post
On the American dream, endoftheamericandream.com
By Michael Snyder
Because Michael Snyder is running for Congress
And he needs more attention
So not sure if Drudge even was aware of that
Or if it was him
But I just wanted to point that out
But it all comes back to the same thing
So now we know whatever you say and do
In the digital world, probably being tracked
Probably being spied on
Maybe not by human intelligence
But at least by artificial intelligence
And some respects
And stuff you do on social media
Is pretty much out there for anyone to discover
Or even steal
For example, I have certain shortcomings
When it comes to this stuff
I think I'm probably on the better end of things
Where I don't really get on social media much
But it's really not that complex
You don't have to be a genius to figure this out
When you sign up for a Twitter account
Or a Facebook account or what have you
Your information goes into their databases
You don't think that a radical within
Facebook or Twitter or who knows what
May be motivated to get access to your
Private information and share that with others
So people are starting to realize this
Here's the story from Science Daily
Adolescents vulnerable to insomnia
Depression from prolonged screen time
Just one of dozens of studies about that
Depression, everything
And now even Apple is unveiling ways
To help limit iPhone usage
Of course we knew about how Steve Jobs
Didn't let his children use iPads
How Tim Cook I don't think lets his kids
Use iPads either
So Apple now comes out with their support plan
For phone addiction
So guys let's go first to clip 7
This is Apple's new support for phone addiction
Screen time empowers you with both insight
And control over how you spend your time
Apple is facing criticism about our
Increasingly unhealthy dependence on iPhones
The company responded Monday with an iOS feature
To help us monitor and limit our usage
With reports, every week you get a weekly
Activity summary that details how you used
Your iPhone or iPad
You tap in and you get to view your full
Activity report
It's really detailed to get deep insight
On how much time you're spending
Where you're spending it
Pause it right there
And even how you're using it
Yeah, Apple and Google have already been
Doing that to you
They're just showing you what they've been
Doing to you for years
Oh you love it, go back
It breaks down during the day
Or the night
Sometimes you wake up in the middle of the night
And you look at your phone
Maybe just to check the time
And you're confronted with something like this
Barrage of notifications that spin you up
And keep you from falling back asleep
And so we're introducing
Do not disturb during bedtime
Where all you'll see
Oh yeah, you don't already have that option
Nothing to get you spun up
Yeah, you can't just turn off notifications
Or put your phone in a different room
What?
Actually I did this social experiment
And again, you know, for me
I feel like I have to have my cell phone
Attached me in case something comes up here
Or in the news and I need to report it
So maybe I'm a hypocrite
Maybe I'm just forced to be that way
But I actually did an experiment myself
Where for a couple weeks I left my phone
In a different room
And I just didn't even have my phone in the room
I slept so much better
It was very noticeable
So you can just do that for yourself
And find out
So here's Apple, all the studies
Everything coming out
You know, the iPhone, the apps
The smartphones, the screen time
It's messing with us
The 5G is messing with our DNA
It's messing with our reproductive systems
The screen time is messing with our psychology
Messing with our endorphins
The whole thing, it's all going on
Manipulating us
Declassified documents show that the CIA
Can get access to anything on the digital world
Other mistakenly leaked documents show
How the government can use the cell phones
To actually manipulate your physical behavior
So that all comes out
But listen and look
At what ESPN is doing now
To market their new app
Leaving home is one thing
But leaving my sports
I could never do that
You have no idea how hard it used to be
Until the new ESPN app came along
We're best mates
I can take it anywhere
Now with ESPN Plus
We stream everything together
So just pause it right there
So just for the radio audience
He's walking around
He's at a beautiful beach
He's out with some friends
Playing some bags
He's walking around
He doesn't have any friends
But he's got his ESPN app
On his smartphone
And he can finally live his full life
Rewind at 10 seconds
This is so beautiful
Here he is eating breakfast
But he's got his ESPN app
He's got his sports
Here he is in a beautiful walk
By an ocean or sea
But he's staring at his phone
Here he is with friends staring at his phone
Heck
I'm even starting to get into American sports
Now
If they were doing that as a joke
I think it would be funny
That did not seem like a joke
That seemed like the real deal
Wow man, your whole life
Is the ESPN app on a phone
And now that is your life
When you go out in the real world
You're stuck on your phone
Looking at the ESPN app
So what do we do then?
This is a serious question
Maybe I should open up the phone lines
What do we do?
Do we just commit
To putting the phones away
And readjust
Or do we just accept
The reality for what it is
To go deeper and deeper
Into this technology dive
So deep that we can never even get back to the surface
We'll be right back with Dr. Corsi
Don't go anywhere
We are the most hated news source
In the world by globalist
It is so critical that you go to
Infowars.com
Or slash newsletter
And sign up for the free newsletter
So we can be in contact with you
And so the censors can't bully their way in
And block us being able to engage
In free open dialogue
As a society that is critical to this fight
We will prevail if you take action
We will take action
We will take action
We will prevail if you take action
And I know you will
You are listening to the Alex Jones Show
Alright, Dr. Jerry Corsi is with me now
Now
And I just want to say this before we bring
Dr. Corsi in
coursey in. I have decided in the third hour I'm going to open up the phone lines. As of
right now it's guest free. So in the third hour we may hear from Alex Jones but I am
going to open up the phone lines. We may even dip into that in the second hour. Specifically
though what should we do about the smartphones? What should we do as we are going down the,
I kind of like the analogy I said actually last edit. We're diving deeper and deeper
and deeper into this technology. But are we going to get so deep that we can no longer
come back up to the surface? Is it no longer an option or do we pause now and wonder? Maybe
we should go back up to the surface for a minute and reconsider what we've seen so far.
So I'm going to open up the phone lines maybe later in this hour but definitely in the third
hour for that. But in the meantime Dr. Jerry Corsi joins me now. Now Dr. Corsi there's
two developments happening right now domestically that I'd kind of like to get in with you here.
You've got the Mueller prosecutor saying that Manafort should be put in jail for tampering
with witnesses. It's my view that's what they're doing. You've got them using this
Papadopoulos situation as a shall we say catalyst to get the spying going on the Trump campaign
which we're now learning may have even dated back to as early as April 2015, certainly
July 2015. What do you think about the Papadopoulos story where it looks like that was real witness
tampering by the deep state? But then you've got kind of another wing here that's not going
away but not getting the press attention. The Imran Awan and the Awan Brothers investigation
where they're hiding money, they're trying to flee the country, Wasserman Schultz freaks
out about the server, threatens the police, now threatening officials apparently screaming
at them says the Daily Caller. So just in the short segment Dr. Corsi, what do you think
we need to get into here in the next half hour?
Well, I think you're first of all right. We just got 500 new pages from the Senate of
the Swarovski page text messages and they made clear that Papadopoulos was an agent
of the federal government who wore a wire. So he was an agent going back to December
2015 which is way before James Comey argued that we started the counterintelligence investigation.
Comey said that was in July 2016 and it appears that we had our FBI agent Papadopoulos go
to London to talk to more CIA agents and there's two figures, Stephen Halper and the Australian,
this guy Downey or Doudney. So we had a whole bunch of our spies talking to our CIA agents
in order to create the story, falsified story, that Trump was colluding with Russia. It appears
to have been a entrapment scheme going back to December 2015 and that's pretty startling.
That's pretty amazing actually. And what I find in the other part of this, I'm sorry
about that.
That's all right. Why don't you hit ignore on that and I'll just take over for a second
here. Yeah. And it's amazing too because again, when you look at the Papadopoulos situation,
you mentioned the, I think it was a downer. I always forget his name for some reason too.
When you look at how Papadopoulos was kind of thrown around and tossed around there to
get the reason to spy, but then you get the newly redacted 500 texts that show that they
were sending spies in, they admit it in these texts as soon as 2015. And we find out that
self, Stephen Halper, who was Comey's spy, Comey's link was reintroduced on the payroll
as early as July 2015, of course, a month after Trump announced. So all the dots are
starting to connect here, Dr. Corsi.
And what is connecting into is the entrapment scheme of spies and CIA agents that were designed
even before Donald Trump was in the primaries to penetrate his campaign and pollute it with
his Russian collusion narrative. This is clearly an entrapment scheme and I'm maintaining
a coup d'etat scheme. And then with the Awan brothers, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, I think
is really in it very, very deep and it needs to be more thoroughly investigated.
Yeah, I'm wondering if she's not freaking out because she knew about that money laundering.
We're going to be right back with Dr. Corsi.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new
addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle, available in one ounce,
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles. Immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier
or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded
by toxins. With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features silver sole nano silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle, staying
toxin free is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with
super blue silver immune gargle only available at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
I'll tell you, it's incredible. I mean, everything's pretty much incredible when it comes to this
Russian collusion probe. But now you wonder, how did this happen where the FBI and clapper
admit to spying on the Trump campaign? You get the declassified texts that admit they
were spying on the Trump campaign. You get the unredacted texts that talk about luring
people in with intelligence assets. You get the documents of Stefan Halper getting rehired
onto the FBI in July 2015, a month after Trump announced he was running. You've got all these
foreign intelligence assets like Christopher Steele and Downer with their connections
to spreading false information and using that to then get the quote unquote reason to get
the FISA warrant to spy on President Trump, which was actually just using paid for Clinton
opposition research, which was fake. Did the FBI know it? Did the FISA courts know it?
Did Obama know it? I would bet yes, but I guess we're still waiting to find that out.
But perhaps the most amazing thing, Dr. Corsi, is what we're seeing now where even though
they're admitting they spied, they've used about six different terms to say spy now,
but they have said spy, human resource officer, intelligence officer, whatever, they use all
these different terms. Spying, they were spying on the Trump campaign. They admit it, but
Dr. Corsi, somehow, some way, Vox, New York Times, even though they originally printed
the story that they were spying on Trump, they all say there was no spying on Trump.
They're making up fake news. There was no spying on Trump. We're like, wait a second,
the people that did it just admitted they did it. Now you're gaslighting me telling
me it didn't happen? I mean, is that not the most incredible thing where even the people
that spied have admitted they spied? We have the declassified documents. We have the unredacted
text. We know they spied. And you still have news outlets that are claiming that it never
happened. You're fake news for saying it. I mean, if this isn't 1984 level, I don't know
what is, Dr. Corsi.
Well, I think, oh, and you pegged it. I think that's exactly right. And what I think most
people don't appreciate is that we're at the end, I think, of the first phase, which I've
always typified as the attempt to get Donald Trump impeached. And this is a this a failed
effort now. And I see all the signs with Giuliani saying, you know, first of all, Donald Trump
tweeting out that he could pardon himself, which by the way, he could.
The only the only first of all, I don't even know why that became a story, but just to
clarify, the only thing Trump couldn't pardon himself on his impeachment, which they don't
have.
Well, but see, and the point is he the point of that was to say to taunt to Mueller and
say, go ahead and impeach me. We got to bring it. And then Giuliani is basically saying
the same thing saying, I don't know if we'll testify, interview subpoenas, we'll take it
to the Supreme Court. Now, these are these are the calling Mueller's bluff. And this is
the end game here of the impeachment attempt, because Trump has decided to go ahead and
play hardball. He's going to call the bluff, show me your cards, Mueller. What do you got?
You want to go to the Supreme Court subpoena, I mean, fine. You want to impeach me fine.
Otherwise, you've got nothing. And I can pardon myself and walk free and end your whole deal
tomorrow. Now, Trump won't pardon himself again for political reasons. But the point is the
messages have been communicated and received by Mueller. And now Mueller's bluff has been
called and it's up to Mueller to see what he wants to do. And I think Trump will be happy
to go to the Supreme Court. I think Trump will win at the Supreme Court was my understanding
too that the only reason this story of Trump pardoning himself really became a story was
because you had the Clinton operative George step on all of us, George Stephanopoulos, who
literally started in media as a Clinton operative, huge Clinton supporter. He has an interview
with Giuliani where he's basically just forcing the question, just forcing the issue like
would he pardon himself? Could he pardon himself? Will he pardon himself? Just forcing it and
then you know how it goes. And then it becomes a media story. So this is how the operatives
work. Step on all of us, George, step on all of us at ABC, bores into Giuliani, forces
home the question of would he pardon himself? Then it becomes a big headline, even though
there was nothing really there, except a Clinton operative forcing it into the mainstream
news.
Well, you're right exactly in terms of how these operatives for Clinton and work. But
I think what I'm trying to point out is that there's another story here and that is that
Giuliani played Stephanopoulos for a chump because Giuliani was happy to say that Trump
could pardon himself because that forces the hand. In other words, he's communicating
not to Stephanopoulos, but to Mueller. If you've got anything on me, you want to impeach
me, bring it. Otherwise, I'm not testifying. We're going to the Supreme Court and I'm shutting
you down. These are all end game moves. These are all calling Mueller's bluff, which means
that Trump has decided to expose that Mueller's got nothing and put an end to Mueller's prosecution
efforts. That's what this is really all about.
So I estimate then with the most recent story coming out of this, Manafort attempted to
tamper with witnesses. Mueller prosecutors say every other claim they've made has really
been true about them. So I'm now, I mean, you learn how to play these guys really, really
quickly. So it's my estimation now that they realize that it's them that are guilty of
tampering with witnesses. It's Mueller that's guilty of tampering with witnesses trying to
get them to quote unquote flip on Trump. There's nothing to flip on, but they're the ones that
have been tampering with witnesses tampering with Papadopoulos, tampering just tampering
the whole time with spy gate, lying about it. Maybe we spied. Oh, we spied for protection.
Oh, well, we weren't spying. So it's, it's to me, it's them that have been tampering
with witnesses. Now they realize, oh, that could come back and haunt them. So their point
of the finger at Manafort. I mean, this is what they do. The Russian collusion. I mean,
everything. Do you think that's what's going on with this new narrative that they're saying
Manafort tampered with witnesses, Dr. Corsi? Yes, I think it's exactly what's going on
that Mueller has always badgered. Mueller is a crooked prosecutor. We know this back to
the Enron days. He badgers witnesses. He tells them that he's going to do all kinds of horrible
things if they don't produce the story he wants, threatening to indict them. Now what
he's denying here is Manafort's right to understand what these witnesses are going
to say. Manafort has a right to prepare his testimony. He's got a right to talk to Mueller's
witnesses. What Mueller is afraid of is the Manafort is going to discover that these witnesses
were tampered with. And that's going to be another cause for Mueller to cause motion
the court for a mistrial on prosecutorial misconduct. And I'm certain that Mueller did
badger the witnesses and that there is prosecutorial misconduct because that's Mueller's MO. He
does it all the time.
Now let's get into Flynn here in the last two minutes of this segment. It looks more
and more, as we're learning more about this, that Flynn was the target of spying, perhaps
even before Trump. And now you're looking at a situation with General Flynn, how he
pleads guilty to a crime he didn't commit just to avoid all the legal damages and everything.
Now they're saying new evidence is going to clear him of that. Well, he was already cleared.
But I'm beginning to wonder, looking at Flynn's situation where, if not for his own personal
safety, why he declared guilty, even though he was innocent, he realized that he was perhaps
even a bigger target before Trump of the deep state, knowing all the knowledge and information
he had. And then once he became linked up with Trump, that's when they became really
threatened and started spying on Trump. But what is your estimation right now of Flynn's
involvement in this as we now learn that they were perhaps spying on Flynn years before
Trump?
Well, I don't think Flynn lied. And I think we now know, I think you're right, that it
was to get Flynn because prosecutors thought he would turn evidence against Donald Trump
on the Russian collusion. But Flynn did not lie. And again, it's Mueller's prosecutorial
misconduct. Flynn had to sell his house to defend himself. Mueller said, if you don't
plead guilty, I'm going to investigate criminally. Your son was acting as the PR assistance for
General Flynn at this time. And we just learned the last two days that Sally Yates lied that
she came over to the White House and said that Flynn was not under investigation. And
when Trump fired Comey, he had no reason to believe that Flynn was going to be indicted.
This whole thing was saying no, Flynn did not lie. He did not lie. And then Strozik and
McCabe changed the interrogation report, which also Mueller did not give over to the defense.
He violated the Brady rule. This thing stinks. The whole prosecution of Flynn stinks.
They broke all these laws because they didn't think Trump would win. And they knew if Hillary
would have won, they wouldn't have to deal with any of this. Now they're scurrying about
like cockroaches getting shown the light and they don't know what to do. They're about
to get stepped on and squashed.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S. What
if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at Heart and Body Extract? We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart. Don't just take my word for it. Check out all of the success stories at HVextract.com
or to order call 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. HBextract.com. Don't risk it when you can
take charge of it.
Healthcare reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge. Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty
Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-paid
patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs. Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's
Libertyoncall.org.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only $0.02 per gallon. Get
the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or
BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature. Expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at
slingbow.com. Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798. They're perfect
for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement
and tradition of sling bow. A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this
primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through
the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
forget the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head
on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWarsLife Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine FloraLife Everyday Maintenance and
Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients
you receive. There's no better way to power your body. FloraLife is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with
Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and
outside toxins. There's no better time to try FloraLife and Carnivore to see how well
they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support
recovery. Try the InfoWarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side. You're listening
to Alex Jones.
Alright ladies and gentlemen, I've got a couple things on my desk right here before we get
back with Dr. Corsi. I've got the super blue fluoride free toothpaste with the colloidal
silver and nascent iodine in it. And then I've got the super blue silver immune gargle
right here with the same silver and iodine formula right there in a spray bottle. Now
let me explain to you what's so incredible about these two products. First of all, the
toothpaste here, everybody uses toothpaste. Alright, at least I hope. Stennis recommended.
So why not use the best toothpaste and shop with the good guys at InfoWarsStore.com. And
why this is so incredible, not only is this a great product, not only is this a fantastic
toothpaste that I use here, look at the reviews, 3,500 reviews, 4.8 stars. And you've got it
on special right now. What is this, 20% off right now guys? 20% off super blue fluoride
free toothpaste. So if you're not getting your toothpaste from InfoWarsStore.com, why
not? And if you would, if everybody that listened to this broadcast this week went to InfoWarsStore.com
and got super blue fluoride free toothpaste and then just decided to switch to super blue
fluoride free toothpaste, we could expand to be 24 hours live probably by the end this
year and it would not be near the financial burden that it is with the expansion of the
live program and the hiring more crew or anything. So that's what makes super blue fluoride free
toothpaste so incredible. Not only is it a great product, everybody use it, it could
fund everything we do here. Then you have the super blue silver immune gargle. Now I
bit my lip on, I think it was either Friday or Saturday, I bit my lip bad and had a huge
cut in my lip and it's frustrating when you deal with this, it gets swollen and you bite
it again and then it's bleeding again and it's like, what do you do? And then I thought,
wait a second, why don't I use the super blue silver immune gargle and spray it on there?
I sprayed it on there Sunday, Monday and now Tuesday, it's almost totally gone. That's
the power of colloidal silver that we now have in the spray bottle, super blue silver
immune gargle spray, which is also 20% off. So great products, those are just two examples
at infowarstore.com and then your support, of course, goes right back in to everything
we do here, expanding here, hiring more crew, more writers, more reporters, getting more
live broadcast going, that's what we're doing at infowarstore.com. So your support at infowarstore.com
is key to all of that. All right, now let's bring in Dr. Corsi again and I want to get
into the Wasserman Schultz story here. So first of all, you've got Dr. Corsi, the developing
Imran Awan investigation that's for the most part gone uncovered, unmentioned. He's hiding
money, they're laundering money, he's getting paid millions by Democrats. His credentials
don't really meet the requirements for the IT work that they were hiring for millions
of dollars, the Awan brothers, he tries to escape the country. Now he's hiding money,
all of this stuff is going on, of course, directly related to Debbie Wasserman Schultz
who was using the Awan brothers. But then you have, of course, after Wasserman Schultz
threatening the police, now she's apparently screaming at house officials to kill the hacking
probe and she's intervening in the Pakistani criminal matter, that's the Awan investigation.
Now I'll just ask you this, Dr. Corsi, and feel free to take this wherever you want.
Why is Debbie Wasserman Schultz freaking out so much? Is Debbie Wasserman Schultz freaking
out so much because she knows perhaps maybe even was in on the money laundering by the
Awan brothers, that's why they were paying them so much money? Or as some are suggesting,
she might know the secrets behind the Seth Rich unsolved murder. Those are just two
ideas that are being floated around, but Dr. Corsi, what do you think is making Debbie
Wasserman Schultz panic?
Well, let's look at what these Awan brothers were doing. They were, first of all, running
along the computer systems for many of the members of Congress, Democratic members of
Congress, and they had access to their classified and security information. Now I have no doubt
that this was an intelligence operation for the Awan brothers, and they're getting this
information, my guess is, over to radical Islamic terrorist groups in the Middle East,
probably in Pakistan. And here, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who authorized these guys to be involved
and supported them, is also, and consequently, guilty of violating national security requirements
for handling classified material. So the whole thing can come down as a major spy scheme
that Debbie Wasserman Schultz allowed to be put in place and championed even to this day.
I think what she's scared of is facing charges that may put her in prison for spying espionage
and the misuse of classified information through the Awan brothers that could put her in prison
for the rest of her life.
So what does that make Debbie Wasserman Schultz? Is she then a spy for Pakistan? I mean, what
advantage does she have bringing in these Pakistanis to essentially what appears to
be stealing information?
Well, you're going to find that this was an entire operation in the Obama administration
that's tilt toward radical Islam. Even John Brennan, whom I'm convinced was a Muslim,
was not allowing you to say radical Islamic terrorism. If anything to do with Islam, it
couldn't be terrorist, so the terrorist had to be not Islam. That's a principle of, that's
one of the five pillars of Islam, never say anything bad about Islam. And you had Huma
Abedin, who was an operative working with Hillary, putting all the State Department classified
emails on her Yahoo account. All she had to do is give her Yahoo password and username
to anybody in the Middle East. They could read everything from the State Department.
She was downloading. So between the Awan brothers and then Huma Abedin, our enemies, the Muslim
terrorists in the Middle East, could have been reading all the classified information
that was going through Congress and the State Department. It's pretty shocking, but I think
that's really what's at the bottom of this. They're both Hillary and Wasserman Schultz
are worried about going to prison for the rest of their life for espionage.
But Abedin, I say, yeah, okay, she directly wouldn't surprise me if she was a spy, a foreign
spy. You know, is Hillary so stupid she didn't realize it? I doubt it. But that I would understand.
I would understand Abedin's role as a spy, but I'm still confused at what Wasserman Schultz
is thinking. Or is she really just a total moron? I mean, that to me is the two things
here. Of course, he like, is she a spy too? Or like, what is what is she thinking? Or
is she just that stupid?
No, she's not stupid at all. There's two things involved. One is the culture of the Obama
administration was to do everything under the table they could to tilt to the Muslim brotherhood,
including in Egypt, supporting the Muslim brotherhood, taking over Mubarak, and then
cutting off the aid when LCC took over. So there's a culture here to get intelligence
information to help the Muslim brotherhood. And Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Hillary think
they're doing their appointed task under the table. And secondly, they're getting very
well paid for it. I'm sure the money laundering was being shared in some form with Wasserman
Schultz. I doubt she now that now I think we're getting into something here because
why were they paying the Iwan so much money? Ridiculous amounts, millions and millions
that they were then laundering unless they were taking a little bit of that money for
themselves. We're going to have more of this with Dr. Corsi on the other side. Don't go
anywhere.
It's a very confusing time in the financial markets and nobody knows that better than
financial markets analyst Doug Casey. Casey Research wants to send you a free copy of
Doug's controversial new book about the stock market, our economy and American politics.
Morning. This book is not politically correct. Casey is known for his outspoken and brutally
honest views. He once called global warming a political scam. He's made millions betting
on investments seen as too controversial by the mainstream. In this new book, Casey reveals
shocking predictions about hot issues like immigration, Russia and the next stock super
boom. Doug Casey is an investing legend. Find out where he's looking for gains in spaces
like tech, even cryptocurrencies. But watch out. This book is simply too controversial
for bookstores. Go to totally incorrect offer dot com to get your free copy so you can see
for yourself shipping and handling charges apply. But be warned, this material may be
taken down at any time. Just go to totally incorrect offer dot com. That's www dot totally
incorrect offer dot com totally incorrect offer dot com Western Europe has already banned
free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is sending down over the UK. They're set
to pass rules, not a law, that if you criticize Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison.
We know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the UK. CNN and many others
are calling for info wars to be shut down, taken off the web. Slate magazine has a professor
and others saying go beyond censorship, brainwash young people against info wars, psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say. We are the most
hated news source in the world by globalist. It is so critical that you go to info wars
dot com slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with
you and so the censors can bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free
open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight. We will prevail if you take
action and I know you will. President Trump gave a speech on Friday at the Naval Academy
for their commencement and said America is back. Hollywood does not have the megaphone
anymore but patriots that believe in real Americana are back in charge and the world
is taking notice. Ladies and gentlemen to celebrate Memorial Day and the great sacrifices of our
veterans, we are offering free shipping and info wars store dot com and 50% off on more
than 20 bestselling items like brain force, the amazing new tropic. Help support the
information war, get great products at the same time and continue to fund an operation
that is a thorn on the side of the globalist and that is continuing to back President Trump
and other patriots not just here but worldwide in support of free market capitalism, support
of Christianity, support of family, support of basic freedom. Huge Memorial Day specials
are in throughout this weekend until the month of May ends. And info wars store dot com and
force live dot com take advantage today. We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best
systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing
the shield toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA. It's filled
with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the
body and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 wins. This is the formula that
I personally have been taking for over a year. And now we believe we have come as close to
perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get. You want to yourself,
you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots
stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant
of America to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused
as you can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the
world. Now it's time to change our bodies with a z shield and forwards live.com. You're
listening to the Alex Jones show.
You know, I saw a story on the drudge report today that said 70% of Americans polled are
burnout on news and that most of them actually were conservative or Republican leaning. I
can relate to that. But I think about it a little deeper and I think I realize what
the frustration here is Dr. Corsi. You know, we know what happened with the Obama administration
spying on Trump. We know what happened with Hillary Clinton rigging the primaries against
Bernie Sanders. We know what happened with the illegal emails, the illegal servers. Wasserman
Schultz involvement in that and then Comey writing Clinton off for all the illegal behavior.
We know about Huma Abedin having the classified information on an illegal server and it's
like here we are. We know all this. We know about Mueller. Now more people are even calling
Mueller out for the botched 9 11 investigation where his running of the FBI could be to blame
for that. But we sit here, Dr. Corsi. Seemingly banging our heads against the wall with the
same facts and the same information, hoping that the walls of deceit, that the walls of
misjustice, that the walls of treason get broken down. And yet we're barely even seeing
cracks yet. We're still waiting for the IG report to come out. But really doesn't this
all come down to President Trump, Dr. Corsi? Doesn't this all come down to when the president
decides that he's going to be the president and stop this madness?
Well, I think I want you to see what I see. And that is that President Trump has already
started to end Mueller. That's why I say he's basically called Mueller's bluff. Impeach
me or let's go to the Supreme Court and debate whether you can subpoena me to testify. As
I'm not testifying and you can impeach me. And Trump is going to win on both of those.
Now what I see next is very frustrating because people are saying, you know, there's double
standard of justice. The Clintons are never going to face any justice. It's going to be
we're going to know all these crimes were committed and they're going to get swept under
the rug. I when I wrote killing of the state, I said there were three phases. If you read
it, encourage people really to read it. The second phase is the Trump counter attack.
And for the next two or three years, what we're going to see, I believe is Donald Trump
systematically, I think it'll take a new special prosecutor. So I don't think you can have
the Justice Department investigate itself, but I think you're going to see Donald Trump
systematically bring these deep state criminals to justice. And I say phase three ends close
to the end of the first term with military tribunals and Donald Trump bringing up issues
of treason with the defendants being as high as Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Now
I've known Donald Trump a long time and I can see him confidently playing this game out.
So what I'm looking at is that right now we feel frustrated, but over the next couple
of years with what I think is coming, we're going to feel that justice is finally being
restored to the United States and the support that Donald Trump has will double or triple.
I mean, Donald Trump is going to be, I think, regarded as one of the most successful presidents
in American history. And he's well on his way to doing that after the first 500 days.
Just be patient because watch and see. Look at the signs. We are right now in the end
game of the first phase of this chess match, which is the attempt to impeach Donald Trump
and it's failed. Now Donald Trump is going to systematically shut down Mueller's operation
and I see it coming. I see those, the pieces coming into place to make that happen.
So you really think that he has got this all planned out to be done in his first four years?
I think a lot of it's, I think it, yes, I do. I think that the first four years are
going to have to be devoted to cleaning up the deep state. I mean, there's significant
accomplishments. Donald Trump's going to try to make the tax cuts permanent for individuals.
He's going to make sure we get a deal with North Korea and Iran.
Well, here's my thing. Here's my thing, though, just to just to cut you off before you get
going down that road is that that stuff he reassures and cements for at least four more
years after winning again in 2020, which I fully expect him to win again in 2020. I don't
think it'll even be much of a race. So I feel like that kind of stuff he can continue to
go down with in 2020 as far as his legacy is concerned. And then who knows what happens
in 2024. The political landscape is going to be so different than I'm not even going
to try to predict what could be happening or what will happen.
But my concern is that even though I expected to win in 2020, if he doesn't get it done
in four years, he understands that he has no guarantee of another four years. So he has
to get it done in four years. He has to put Obama testifying on Spygate under oath within
his first four years because there's no guarantee he has another four.
Well, I think the first four years are going to be devoted to the counterattack. And then
the end game of the counterattack, which is the military tribunals and treason charges,
the bureaucracy will have to be massively cleaned up. And you're firing, I'd fire 95
percent of the people. Maybe that's not even enough. I closed down different purals.
Oh, I shut down the CIA. I shut down the CIA and the FBI immediately.
Well, I have to have term limits on serving in the bureaucracy as well as term limits
in serving in Congress. But I want to prefigure what I see the next term for Donald Trump
can be after 2020. What I see is he's going to tackle then even bigger questions like
getting rid of the Federal Reserve, getting rid of the U.S. debt, handling the entitlement
problems that we have of out of control entitlement spending, which is taking 60, 70 percent of
our budget these days and is no control on the site in the future. Those are the problems
Donald Trump, I think we'll have to tackle in the second administration. And I really
see it. I mean, I want everybody to kind of understand that, you know, we should be
hopeful right now because having survived the attempt to impeach Donald Trump. And right
now Mueller is costing the Democrats votes in the midterms because the Democrats are
screwed. Yeah, no, the Democrats are in big trouble.
They have only a negative hate Trump policy. You can't win elections on a negative platform.
That or me, too, are Bernie's standards. And I thought that was both backfired on them
for the total frauds that they are. But I want to just ask you one more question, actually,
because I forgot to bring this up. Have you have you seen Michael Hayden's new book by
any chance? I've not seen it yet. No, I knew I know it's out. There's several of them.
I have not caught up on that's one of them. I'd like to talk to you about that because
it's interesting. Now, I'd rather I'd rather wait for you to actually get some intel on
it before we talk about it. But I'll just give you kind of the groundwork with my understanding.
I didn't read all of it, but I've read excerpts. I've read reviews of it and other people that
read it and covering it. I was surprised. Apparently, Michael Hayden writes this book
and essentially blames Trump for the collapse of the intelligence agency. And it's kind
of an anti-Trump book. But we were all of this belief and it was understanding that
it was Michael Hayden that went to Trump. Originally, when he found out about the spying
to tell Trump about that so that he could respond, you know, in whatever manner he deemed.
So this book being anti-Trump was kind of a shock to me. I know that you weren't aware
of this, but, I mean, wasn't it your understanding that it was Hayden that was a?
Well, what I'm aware of is that this is part of what Brennan is doing. The intelligence
agencies have caught on that Donald Trump is going to massively reduce the intelligence
agencies. All of the spying that's being done on the U.S. citizens, including with the
Facebook and all the other social media spying on us and then censoring conservatives and
libertarians. Donald Trump's going to pull all this in. Facebook and the others will
be regulated through the Federal Trade Commission. And we're going to have the National Security
Agency and others. I think even Julian Assange will be allowed to come back to the country
once Donald Trump focuses on the issue without indictment. And we're going to begin to understand
that everything we've been doing has been recorded by the NSA, all of our emails, all
of our phone calls, every click we make on the Internet, comfortably taken up by Google
and the others, that the Internet itself was created by the CIA and the real Internet's
controlled by the Godfathers, the Larry Ellison's, the...
Which Obama even admitted in a slip of the tongue. I don't even think he realized he's
that he admitted that. Dr. Corsi, thank you so much at Jerome Corsi on Twitter. Again,
Michael Hayden's book to me just proves to you again it's The Deep State, which Jerry
has the book Killing the Deep State, Hayden, another member of The Deep State that hates
Trump. We'll be right back.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for
optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function,
immune system, and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains
one to five percent of actin ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over
95 percent of the actin ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such
as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products. That's why we've created
the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the Real Red Pill Plus. The Real Red Pill
Plus contains the powerful Pregnantalone formula. Now with an added energy boost. Now you can
support your heart, brain, and aging process with an added natural energy boost. The proprietary
energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate leaf extract,
and more. Pair it with the powerful ingredients in the original Real Red Pill formula. The
Real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick me up to
get you through the day. The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future
of your mind and body. Don't miss out on the all new upgrade to your favorite product.
Head to Infowarsstore.com and get the Real Red Pill Plus today. Get Real Red Pill Plus
now at 50% OFF.
Next we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter. And not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As
it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain water supply. But more
importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it. As the years go by, it gets
harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural
ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino
acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily. That's why Infowars Life created the powerful
Vitamin Mineral Fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation,
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body. Using a proprietary process, we've managed
to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with
high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral
Fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Okay, I am going to open up the phone line in the third hour, the phone lines, excuse
me, for the third hour. But specifically, I want to talk to the audience about one thing.
What do we do with the knowledge we have about the smartphones, the screen time, what it
does to our psychology, our biology, our reproductive systems, our DNA even, with the radio waves
blasting back and forth. What do we do moving forward? How do we implement a plan to curtail
the reliance we have on new technology? Or do we? Or do we just accept our fate and keep
diving deeper and deeper until we can't even come up back to the surface? So, I want dedicated
phone calls just to that topic in the third hour. What do we do about the smartphone technology
as they're about to roll out the AI, which has already been rolled out in kind of a soft
rollout that they're now kind of just introducing to you as, oh, it's here, accept it. You're
seeing all the new commercials, the Google AI, the Microsoft AI, the AI and the smartphones.
It's all there. And then you're starting to see some of the AI work or learn where if
you search Google, it says that the Republicans are Nazis or that a Republican senator is
a bigot. Well, that's not true and it's not natural. That's the Google AI that is learning
this because of the stuff that goes up online and that it sees. So, it can't really, the
AI being is how its AI doesn't really know what fake news is and what fake news isn't.
So it kind of just absorbs everything as is and then cranks it back out as an algorithm
based on the measurements of the data and learns that, oh, yeah, Republicans must be
Nazis. It's said everywhere, so that's the case. Oh, yeah, a Senator, a Republican Senator,
obviously a bigot. It's all over social media. It's all in the news. Must be true. Of course,
it's fake news. But this is all rolling out. But it gets even worse now because Apple is
admitting more time on our smartphone is bad. So we're going to roll out, oh, and then they
have the app. I almost want to play the video again where they're like, yeah, yeah, oh,
thank God, this crew, this crew is so great. Apple is facing criticism about our increasingly,
you know, pause it right there. I'm going to read this and then play the audio because
this is so funny because this is what we're going to discuss in the next segment and then
have the ESPN app video after this too because I want to talk about this in the entire third
hour because I'm serious. I mean, we all suffer from this. I'm not acting above this, folks.
I have my smartphone right next to my bed, usually check it right before I go to bed
right when I wake up, see if I have anything work related I need to address. I'm right
there with you. Even though you don't really find me on social media, which I am proud of,
I'm glad I don't have the Instagrams, the Facebooks, the Twitter's and all that. So glad,
so much better. I'm still scouring for news on the internet, on Drudge, even on Twitter
all day long. So I'm not trying to act like I'm above it. I'm in there with you. We're
in this together. But let's go to the Apple video, guys, here. Part of back up. Let me read this.
Apple is facing criticism about our increasingly unhealthy dependence on iPhones. Well, it's not
really Apple's fault per se. I guess if they're rigging the screens to flicker at that rate,
perhaps, but I mean, you still choose to pick it up. And it's a cool technology.
The company responded Monday with iOS features to help us monitor and limit our storage. Now,
I'm about to tell you the irony of this, but let's pick up the video with audio right from there.
Screen time empowers you with both insight and control over how you spend your time.
And here it is, Apple facing the criticism. We have a dependence on iPhones. It's bad for our
health. We have a new app to help you monitor your usage. And it starts with reports. Every week,
you get a weekly activity summary that details how you used your iPhone or iPad. You tap in.
And they all cheer. Okay, so you get it. So pause right there. So that's fine. So they give you
this bar graph and it shows you how you use your time the whole week. Yada, yada, yada. Whoo. Thank
you, Apple. Apple, Google, all of them, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, they have been doing that to
you since you signed up. But now they realize the damage or you realize the damage the smartphones
and all the tech is doing to you. And so they're trying to virtue signal like, okay, we care.
Let's let's show them what we've been doing to them. But let's act like we're doing it for them
so that they can be healthier. Yeah, that'll work. And so then they say, here's the app,
monitor your behavior, monitor your phone usage. We've been monitoring it for decades. Now it's
your turn. Oh, man. So what do we do? I open up the phone lines for the entire third hour.
1-877-789-ALIX. 1-877-789-2539. 1-877-789-ALIX. Yeah, and you are actually seeing this
in sales where sales of smartphones have actually already peaked and are now kind of trending downward.
But we know about the negative side effects of cell phones. We know about the negative side
effects of the screen time. Now we're learning about the negative side effects of the 4G and what
soon to be the 5G radio waves that are going to just destroy our environment when it hits 6G
will be dead. So but they don't see but Apple doesn't point that out. Say we're actually
going to reconsider and look into the 5G here before we roll it out because there might be
some serious negative health repercussions here. So we're going to dial that back and the 4G is
already kind of blistering you up inside with the radio waves. But we'll just just hold on a
familiar. Let's look at this 5G for a second here. Let's see if we can really afford to roll this 5G
up. Of course, they don't care. They don't care if the human domain dies. They're going to become
machines and live forever. That's their plan. So yeah, create the 5G, the 6G, boils the environment,
makes it impossible for humans to live unless they upload their brain to a computer chip.
So again, I open up the phone lines 1-877-789 Alex. What do we do about this? How do we beat
the addiction to smartphones now with the dependence and the reliance we have on them
for day-to-day activities, for work, for communication, what have you? But the craziest
thing when you think about this is it wasn't long ago when smartphones didn't even exist. I mean,
all you got to do is flash back, what, a decade, 15 years? You didn't even have a smartphone.
Shoot, 15 years ago, if you had a camera attached to your phone, that was groundbreaking.
But we've come so far in such a short period of time where now the dependence is habitual.
Yeah, and then ESPN has the ad, we don't need to roll it again, where
they're promoting their new app and it's like, here's a guy at a party with friends,
what is he doing? He's staring at a smartphone. Here's a guy walking on a beautiful beach,
beautiful weather, beautiful day. What is he doing? He's watching his smartphone.
Here's a guy surfing. He's got a surfboard, he's at the beach, but he's watching his smartphone.
Here's a guy at breakfast, nice little breakfast diner outside. What's he doing? Watching his
smartphone. So then, oh, yeah. Well, what's the point? I might as well become a machine.
I don't live in the real world as it is. I'm already living in my smartphone. So who needs the real
world? So what do we do about this, folks? Again, I'm not asking to hear what you think. I mean,
I'm like, what do we do? I'm in this with you. Yeah, there's pictures, the crews showing of the
kids, children. Basically, you know, it used to be the television raised the kids. Now it's the
smartphone. We played the intro coming into a segment this hour where people just looking at
their smartphones, walk into pools, walk into holes, walk into each other, walk into traffic,
get in car accidents. And you see where it goes. You see where this ends.
So what do we do? How do we be proactive? Do we even want to stop this? So that's what I open up
the phone lines with and we'll do that for the entire third hour. But folks, please support us
at infowarstore.com. We've got a great crew and we're looking for more crew members and it's your
support at infowarstore.com that makes it all possible. Specials include free shipping store
wide, free shipping store wide at infowarstore.com. Then you've got half off Brain Force Plus,
half off Supermail Vitality, half off Immune Wall, other popular products are half off like Alpha
Power. Go to infowarstore.com. Take advantage of all the specials. People were asking me today,
how much longer is this going to be going on? This is going to end by the end of this week. So
if you want to take advantage of all the great specials at infowarstore.com,
do it before the end of the week and take advantage of the free shipping store wide
as well. It's all at infowarstore.com. That's how we grow. You are our sponsors. We salute you.
We'll be right back with your calls. Don't go anywhere.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product
is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarstore.com because
it works so well. This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the
info war. So it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try alpha power exclusively
available infowarslife.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO. It's for your brain.
It's for sports. It's for activities and it's made in the USA. Get your alpha power today
at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is
sending down over the UK. They're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize Islam or
gays, you'll get six months in prison. We know we're only about a year or two behind what's
happening in the UK. CNN and many others are calling for info wars to be shut down,
taken off the web. Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship, brainwash
young people against info wars, psychologically inoculate them with lies so they don't actually
hear what we have to say. We are the most hated news source in the world by globalist.
It is so critical that you go to infowars.com or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter
so we can be in contact with you and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able
to engage in free open dialogue as a society that is critical to this fight. We will prevail if you
take action and I know you will. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Okay, I am getting a bunch of callers right now lined up by the crew. The topic we're gonna be
discussing here in the third hour. What do we do about the smartphone technology that's now taking
over our life? And it's not just that it's taking over our life. It's that we know of all the negative
health effects. We know about the negative effects of the 5G. We know about the negative side effects
physically and psychologically of all of the screen time of the flicker rates. So what do we
do about it? What are we doing about it? What do we do about it? Can we do anything about it?
A brief discussion in the break with the crew. I mean, honestly, I don't know. I don't have
an answer. I'm right in this with you. I might not be the worst, but I'm certainly not the best.
I still use my smartphone. I have two smartphones.
So what do we do? I mean, how do we buck this? How do we change this tide? How do we slow this
momentum or renavigate this momentum? And you know where it ends. There's a great illustration
right there. You're trapped in your smartphone. It becomes your prison. And you know where it ends,
folks. Eventually, you literally plug in to the machine and become the machine,
which then enters an entire new realm of debate, which is, do you want to die?
Or do you want to live forever as a machine?
Yeah. I love that image that we have in that intro, where you have a group of girls at a
baseball game, and there's like 12 of them, and not one of them is watching the game. They're all
in their smartphone. Yeah. Smartphone, selfie, duck face, looking down, texting a friend.
You know, that girl has a St. Louis Cardinal hat on taking the duck face selfie, but that is not
from St. Louis. So I just want to stand up for my city. That is not Bush Stadium.
Anyway, I mean, you see it, if you go to a ball game, whenever I can, I like to enjoy live sports.
If I go to a Cardinal game in St. Louis at Bush Stadium, you just look around and half the crowd
is staring at their smartphone. And I grew up going to ball games. I mean, I'm like 14 years old,
and my dad is dropping me off with five bucks so I can go get a bleacher seat. And I would go
with five bucks, get a bleacher seat, maybe take some peanuts with me. And that was it.
And for three hours, I enjoyed it. I loved watching the game. I didn't need a smartphone.
I don't even like these new stadiums. They got 500 screens, 500 graphics flashing around you all
the time, games going on. I'm like, man, what happened to people wanting to go watch the game?
What happened to people wanting to watch other humans be masters at their craft?
Do incredible things. Now you just sit on your smartphone and watch, oh, did something happen?
Woo. But so what do we do? What do we do? Yeah, there is the image right there.
That's actually in Arlington ballpark in Texas. That is the Texas Rangers ballpark that these
girls, are you intentionally zooming in on the St. Louis hat? Isn't that so trendy? I'm eating,
what is that, like a churro taking a duck face selfie? Oh, and now you know what they have to do?
Now they have to put up a screen. Now in Major League Baseball, they have to put up a screen
like all around the foul territory because people keep getting hit with baseballs because
they're not even watching the game. So people staring down at their smartphone, yeah, there's
one, this guy gets hit in the face with a basketball because he's not even watching,
they're both staring in a smartphone. So now you have to make a fan safe environment because
they're not even paying attention to the game so they can be totally droned out on their smartphone,
not even watching the game and then they don't get hit in the head with a ball,
they have to go to the game with a helmet on. Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've
introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired
with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Info Wars
Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Next hour until Paul Joseph Watson takes over the fourth hour here at the Alex Jones Show,
I'm taking your call specifically on what do we do about the smartphone, cell phone technology
soon to be the 5G that is literally killing us. It's literally destroying us and you know where
the end game goes. We literally have to become machines just to survive or we're so dependent
on machines we have to plug into the digital machine or get a brain chip or whatever it is
and that's where it's going. You know I'm going to tell you something right here about this story.
AI brain chips will create a new breed of superhumans who can communicate via telepathy.
You want to know something? You can already communicate via telepathy folks. You already
have that innate ability built in you. Now you know that we only use on average I think about
10% of our brains but I bet you've experienced probably some form of telepathy in your life
and you can do it. You can manipulate it. It's part of the secret human history that they don't tell
you. I mean we don't even know the secrets of our pineal gland. So we have all these amazing
abilities already as humans that we don't even try to tap into. It's just incredible. So that's
what we're going to be talking about here for the rest of the hour. What do we do about the
technology killing us, the 5G? How do we stop it? How do we stop the momentum of our dependence on it?
Let's go out to the phone lines now. Let's start with Jim in California. Go ahead Jim.
How are you doing? Just fine. All right. I've tried some things that have helped me a lot.
In fact, I'm not my sleep better is number one, shut everything off at night including the Wi-Fi
in your house. I bought a pocket pocket from you and I keep my phone in it and yeah it takes
a minute when I pull it out go back and hook back up to the net so that it works but that
minute that little bit of time is worth some of my life. You can get a reasonable meter that will
measure electromagnetic frequency and there's a simple demonstration they showed on YouTube on
putting a ferriday cage over your smart meter. You know this is actually Jim. This is actually
incredible Jim. There's a guy that works here but we're gonna hear for I think a decade here
of one of our social media gurus, a friend of mine who he told me about this and he showed me.
He was like yeah we're getting blasted with all these frequencies and I was like what are you
talking about? And he pulls out the meter and he just goes around his apartment and he's like oh
here's my computer blasting it off. Oh here's my wireless router blasting it off. Here's my
microwave blasting it off. All of these waves are invisible or excuse me invisible if you could see
all the radio waves that are going through we wouldn't we wouldn't even be able to see an
inch in front of our face but I've never heard I like that turning off the wi-fi you know unplugging
it and all that stuff but I don't know I don't know if that really helps the overall issue that
might kind of be like one thing to say for each individual to help you with your health and to
stop the waves from hitting you all the time but I don't know if it really stops the momentum of
where we're going here Jim. Well I agree with you but the one thing that you need and like
you and Alex both need it, sleep. Find a way to make your bedroom peaceful. My next step here I found
that stainless steel mesh is cheaper than copper and I can hang that on the walls uh you know
heighted underneath the paneling on the walls of my bedroom and now it doesn't infiltrate my bedroom
but it doesn't look like a Faraday cage either and just leave those devices out of the room
and make sure at least you shut yourself off at night and let your brain rest so it's not getting
fried constantly because just walking around in the world you're gonna get it unless you're wearing
a foil hat or something you know hey that's it how about we gotta bring back the foil hats
we're gonna start selling foil hats at InfoWarsStore.com
You guys come up with a hat that is made with the same mesh as the blocket pocket so you can put
it on your head. Do you remember the audience probably doesn't remember this there is this
there is this girl it was a Donald Sterling thing Vivian Steviano I think was her name
she used to wear she used to walk around in a uh um what do the um the steel melders wear like the
steel melder hat I'm joking like but but here's the thing that is going to be an industry
mark my words that is going to be an industry with like helmets and and body suits or or even homes
where it's all an infarity enclosure or or bedrooms or they'll they'll make paints that's
going to be a market where they create an entire marketplace for you to fight back against all
the radio waves that are destroying you and Jim is completely right thank you for the call Jim
and again I know he's right and it's like I can't even do it and I don't know if you've been able
to notice oh look at that radiation blocking boxers I want to get some of these we should probably
sell them I'm not even kidding you walk around with your cell phone right next to your testicles
excuse me it's blasting them with waves destroying your ability to procreate sorry I'd like to have
kids so so I mean I need to get these boxes apparently we should probably sell them but
that's going to be a huge marketplace that's not even a joke I just again though I don't I
guess it's just impossible to stop but the caller Jim was right you really should be turning this
stuff down yeah there's a story this is even the Huffington Post how your cell phone might be hurting
your sperm no it's not a mite it is it is it's also hurting female eggs it's all old news and
they just keep rolling it out we don't even do anything see this is why yesterday I was so
irked of the supreme court case being such a huge story a freaking gay wedding cake bro
oh which at all oh and then they do the research it turns out that the two gay guys doing this
were militant left-wing radicals they specifically looked for the one baker that they knew would
say no and then they made a national case out of it and then they lost big seven to two mainstream
media says narrow decision it was a total blowout and that's the big story meanwhile cell phone
technology is killing us all so how do we stop it Jim has a solution I think in the short term
not sure how it works in the long term let's jump out to Josh calling in from organ go ahead Josh
oh um so I wanted to make the comparison between cell phone and uh and cigarettes because I think
it's uh there's a lot of comparisons there I mean for one thing they're obviously clearly addictive
but and obviously there's also bogus science that was behind both of them you know when you
look at cigarettes for a period of time there was dentist and doctors coming out and recommending
certain brands even um and so you've got this thing where society's addicted to it they think that
you're a kook or some kind of nut if you say that it's actually bad for you and the problem here is
not only do you have industries that can profit off of this but you've got you know different
entities that can clearly control society uh on so many different levels um as far as as you
know what we can do to change it that's a tough one because uh people are I would say more addicted
to their smartphones than they are our two cigarettes well and and this is actually this is
actually a great caller let's hold Josh to hold Josh because I like the intellectual analogy you
just made to cigarettes I want to have that I actually want to continue that conversation on
the other side because that is actually we can actually kind of paint a lot of parallels with
that and the smartphones but let's do that on the other side uh in the meantime we're about to go
to break I'm taking your calls the rest of this hour before Paul Joseph Watson takes over but please
extended specials at info wars store dot com 50 off some of our top selling supplements like
supermail vitality brain force plus you've got 20 off the super blue fluoride free toothpaste
we've got free shipping store wide which is huge if you want to get water filters air filters
emergency food supplies heavy items free shipping store wide take advantage of that this is the last
week this special is going to be going on folks so rush to info wars store dot com today take
advantage of the huge specials free shipping store wide it's all at info wars store dot com
and it makes all this possible we'll be right back we call it the crapper water closet outhouse or
bathroom but where do you go when there's nowhere to go the answer is the biffy bag the biffy bag is
a pocket size disposable toilet that fits in your glove box tackle box toolbox backpack or purse the
biffy bag has everything you need for a sanitary and comfortable relief experience it's ready to
use in just seconds and just toss it in the trash when you're done it's your biffy in a jiffy
biffy bag dot com b i f f y b a g dot com heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high
blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are
there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just
a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making
a difference in thousands of people's lives across america my blood pressure has normalized
my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm
telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body extract to everyone
anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardio vascular system healthy order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305
that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a
better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 3995 and
free economy shipping use discount code GCN and get an extra 10 off your purchase at bugassault.com
fire your fly swatter get your bug assault today
president trump gave a speech on friday at the naval academy for their commencement and said
america is back hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore but patreons that believe
in real americana are back in charge and the world is taking notice ladies and gentlemen to
celebrate memorial day and the great sacrifices of our veterans we are offering free shipping
and infowarstore.com and 50 percent off on more than 20 best-selling items like brain force the
amazing new trope help support the information war get great products at the same time and continue
to fund an operation that is the thorn on the side of the globalist and is continuing to back
president trump and other patriots not just here but worldwide in support of free market capitalism
support of christianity support a family support a basic freedom huge memorial day specials
running throughout this weekend until the month of may ends and infowarstore.com and infowarslife.com
take advantage today guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable
meals is crucial with info wars life selects storeable food you can make sure you and your
family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours
to a full year there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including
meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast
lunch and dinner info wars life selects storeable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of
need they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and
transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make
sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life
selects storeable foods you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host owin treuer we're taking your calls here on the alex jones show discussing the implications
of cell phone technology all the screen time what it does to the youth what it does to us
what it does to our humanity no supreme court case no that's a gay cake but the cell phones that you
know could pretty much destroy our environment via the recent studies we just ignore that so we're
taking your call specifically on that issue at 1-877-789 alex now i held josh over because he was
making a good point he kind of got cut short on the break so i wanted to bring it back back to
josh josh get back to the point you were making compares uh comparing in the past to other things
where you kind of had a similar situation where maybe we knew about the negative health effects
maybe we didn't uh maybe they're consistent maybe they're inconsistent maybe we still don't know
and you were using the comparison of cigarettes to that so just get back on your point start from
wherever you want josh and organ sure things your thing um so the reason i think it's it's actually
way more dangerous though is because with with cigarettes you had an you know obvious a profit
motivation and you've got uh these industries you know that are going to pay a lot of money for lobby
to have scientists and others say like well this is good for you because they want to make a profit
but cell phones not only is extremely addictive but you've got these weird social scientists who
are now getting in there and they can uh they can manipulate people they can uh cause us to uh become
infertile they can help to uh to guide our you know the the way that we think and that makes it
exponentially more dangerous because you've also got the profit motivations all these people who are
glad to be a part of it for that for that reason but then you've also got the the social control
aspect of it which just makes it so incredibly dangerous and it's become a part of almost everyone's
life i mean we're completely in vela by you know the technology that is around us now and that's
where i wanted to so let's let's keep it right there for a second with this comparison in the
cigarettes to smartphones and kind of the same deal as far as the health concerns behind it yet
the rollout anyway uh i agree with you cigarettes probably not near as big of an issue as the smartphone
phones because i agree i think more people are using smartphones where you didn't have children
you know growing up by the age of three smoking cigarettes you do have children by the age of
three on the smartphones on the tablets using that technology so i do agree that that's more of a
threat you've also got just the fact that you know you still choose whether or not you want to
smoke a cigarette cigarette smokers are actually decreasing there's multiple reasons for this
alternatives the vaping and everything but with the smartphones it's like you kind of don't have
a choice in some aspects of life you need the smartphone to work everybody has a cell phone at
least and then you kind of bring it to the second hand issue where it's like okay second hand smoke
is it bad is it is it is it not bad is there really this negative side effect do we really not know
know well with the second hand cell phone radiation that's not even an option it's like you can't get
away from the cell phone radiation unless you know you're like 500 miles removed from society
oh absolutely and and the and when you look at the damage that it does to society not only
individuals with society we're more socially disconnected now than we've ever been even though
we're able to connect with people all around the world instantaneously we get so involved in that
the dopamine hits yeah like there's people there's people uh i used to write i used to ride the bus
in st lewis for like five years i took public transportation i remember there'd be some days
where i wouldn't feel like listening to music or you know listening to podcasts or whatever and i
wouldn't have headphones in and i'd like try to talk to people like either sitting at the bus stop
or on the metro or whatever and there's people out there that are literally like they're shocked
they're like what is this is he trying to talk to me is this person trying to use words to
communicate with me uh i don't understand uh so there's like another aspect that you just brought
up to where it's like we're we're having this communication breakdown where we don't even
know how to socially interact anymore oh absolutely i mean when you look at the levels of uh uh you
know even seeing suicide you know it's going up i mean it's just really causing a lot of problems
for i mean the youth especially um and you know we we know we've been warned by people like Steve
Jobs heads of facebook but still the conventional wisdom for whatever reason is that you know you're
a kook if you say this stuff's bad for you well thank you for the call josh great call and and
just to kind of play both sides of the aisle here and be fair with it just and i don't know if this
is is actually fair when it comes down to the science but you know let's not recall or let's
do recall that you've got all the claims about cigarettes and cancer and second hand smoke and
all that stuff i've got a great aunt that is like pushing 90 years old who's been smoking cigarettes
since he was 15 years old prior pack a day and you know can still can still you know run like
she's in college so how do you explain that do you have that same kind of application to the
cell phones where maybe it affects others more than some i i'm just asking questions i'm trying
to figure this out with you here on the air let's now go to gd in florida go ahead gd
hey oh and this is judy in florida all right judy hey um i want to read you a quote real quick
and i want to see if you can tell me who said this i think it is fair to say at this point
and we're not trying to compare this to things in the past as far as wars are concerned but
we're essentially in a civil war right now to this country we are people versus we the people
versus the brainwash masses and the corrupt washington establishment that hurts them
i don't know tell me is that that no go ahead you did oh you just quoted me
me oh i don't even know what i said and yeah when it comes to quotes when i think something
is spot on i go ahead and write it down yeah it was you judy in florida man we ought to hire you
well that that's strictly up to you but um no i i'm just calling because uh i i have a lot of
experience talking to and um dealing with people that when you talk about the dangers of cell phones
um i've been trying to build my business to the point where i don't have to do the actual work
anymore and i can do you know lectures here and there just to talk to people about 5g and and the
threats of it but i i know a person that the doctor directly told him that yeah it was your
cell phone use that gave you your brain tumor and he died you know a few months later um and i i i know
that this stuff is is very dangerous i mean i have a flip phone for my business and the thing
that i'm probably most addicted to as far as like screen time is probably info wars but how hard is
it though as a business you say you're a business owner yeah how hard is it though as a business
owner to create a business model that can not just exist but even thrive trying to avoid the
harmful technologies well i mean i i use well you know i use a router as far as my computer but i
know that there's wi-fi signals going through my house i mean i have you know i live in an apartment
complex and i also have a smart meter that i can tell you a few times when there's been a signal
that you know when they're doing a testing in the in the dead of night and like i'll hear my um
printer all the sudden go on me whatever's being tested in the house a little jolt me awake i mean
these frequencies are active um they're far reaching and they do disturb the pineal gland they do
disturb mm-hmm and you combine that with everything else with the chemicals in the food and water it's
just like a perfect storm wow judy first of all thank you for quoting me i'm uh i'm uh i'm blushing
on air here that was amazing but you know but she makes a great point with the small business it's
like i i go to my barber and their wireless is down and they can't even take payments because
they use the wireless service to charge the card so it's like can you even survive with it this is
dan pillard you have the ir's money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you i've defended people
from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you too i wrote the book on irs
settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to finally
get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never been a better time to solve your
problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website danpillard.com you have been lied to
my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer finally someone has come out and written
what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government ever we're in a constitutional crisis
and our government is now being run ruled by a shadow government we gotta get this out because
just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other people are this is critical to get to read
together the library to give you the church get them right now at killingunclesambook.com
killingunclesambook.com
patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding hey
i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and prison
planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my dial-up
internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and
followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival
shield and since then i'm on the x2 the supermail vitality decays man the real red pill micro zx
body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much it's
like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just
the more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there 1776 worldwide
info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winner sun
a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winner sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every
batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put
if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winner sun is the result of our pursuit of
the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years but the result
as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world
read the facts at info wars life.com about winner sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote
a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something the globalists are
targeting visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139 choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced
of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com you're listening to the alex jones show
all right before we get back to the phone lines with leon and joe and dylan and grant i just
want to do a quick news blitz here california water law prevents showering doing laundry on
same day california governor jerry brown signed two bills that will force water districts and
municipalities to permanently adopt even more aggressive water rationing level than during
the state's five-year drought so more government control in california i wonder though if jerry
brown is able to water his plants take a shower make pasta do his laundry do it all on the same
day i wonder if jerry brown has to abide by the same water restrictions as the rest of california
somehow i doubt it maybe i'm just a cynic did you see this maxine waters plays to empty seats
as only 10 millennials show up to campaign event anti-maxine guys see if you can find the graphic
that they made for this the anti-maxine graphic yeah here's the here's the b-roll the crew has it
there's the uh it's about 10 millennials that show up to this event and then there's maxine waters
which i gotta tell you this is actually kind of a powerful footage uh you know i you know i've got
a i've got a grandma bless her heart i love her dearly my last grandparent that's still alive
and you know she's kind of you know she she's short and stature you know usually your your
grandmother's end up pretty short in statue but when you see maxine who pretends to be this powerful
woman who pretends to be this giant for civil rights standing there like a the smallest person
the littlest person in the crowd not just physically but mentally when it comes to her integrity when
it comes to her honesty that's what she's really the littlest in she's really a shrimp when it comes
to integrity and honesty and then you have the kind of physical manifestation of that in this video
but but i'm losing my track here 10 people show up to a maxine waters event 10 people with organization
press releases printouts the whole nine please join us for the anti-maxine meet and greet
they announce it big rollout but guess what info wars gives you a 24 hour notice for a planned
parenthood protest just little old me little old me 24 hours planned parenthood protest i get 30
people to show up not to see me not to hear me lecture them but to protest the baby killers of
planned parenthood bernie sanders at the airport nobody cares low energy looks like a total schlub
can't even buy a comb for a nickel a total hack a total bum where his his little bodyguard or
whatever this guy is has more energy than he does sanders is just wavering around out there like a
like a uh uh uh what do they call the the the dust things that roll around i can't even think about
it now and all the western cartoons and everything he's one of those he's like a dust mite a tumble
tumbleweed bernie sanders is like a tumbleweed tumbling through the airport no energy no one
cares maxine waters gets 10 people to show up for a highly publicized event folks i'm not
just saying this we are bigger than them do you understand that info wars is bigger than
bernie sanders info wars is bigger than maxine waters these people are losers and they're losing
i'll move on
one two three four five six seven eight nine ten people show up to a maxine waters event
ten
nancy polosi on supreme court ruling bake that cake christians
nancy polosi woman can't even think straight but she just told you what it was all about
she just told you what was behind the entire gay cake story it was all about attacking christians
and militant homosexual radicals saying you better bake our cake christians just trying to shove it
in their face well the supreme court got wise to you and you lost seven to two coke brothers join
resistance launch campaign against trump tariffs uh you know this is an interesting story but
i'm a little confused by this because i read a story today that said david coke was actually
pretty much setting aside all his and his involvement in coke industries citing health reasons
so kind of conflicting stories there so i'm not sure what the deal with that is but to the left
who hates the coke brothers you think that they'd be like oh wow the coke brothers hate trump maybe
i like trump yeah billionaire conservative donor coke to retire from coke industries so i'm just
trying to figure this out they claim that he's fighting trump but he's claiming to retire okay
kent state gun girl challenges david hog to an arm wrestling match this is hilarious katlyn bennett
huge i'm a big fan of katlyn bennett by the way uh she's got a real future and she's not afraid of
media outlets unlike other activists that are like her that were scared to come on info wars
i'll just leave it at that katlyn bennett challenges david hog to an arm wrestling match
well i think i'd probably take katlyn bennett in that i saw david hog once i said that he uh
he had a loose a loose thread hanging out of his shirt sleeve i didn't realize it was his arm
so anyway and then you had uh what what what is this deal family of stoneman douglas student
advocate david hog swatted at home but apparently it was a prank swat thing i don't know again i'm
just reporting this to you i didn't dive deep into this there's really not many details even in this
story um so who knows there's probably some angle that'll come from that all right got through that
stack news let's get to another phone call let's go to leon in organ go ahead leon we're talking
about the rollout of the 5g technology the smartphone that's killing our humanity and what do we do
to stop it go ahead leon and good afternoon oh and a good job fight for the cause um well one of
the things oh and if you don't mind i'd like to give a quick shout out to alex from my speak out
radio it's been a long time um but as far as the 5g you know one of the things and first of all
uh don't worry about your use of it because your use of it is as a tool for your work you're not
like sitting around watching porn and playing games yeah no i understand that there's a big
difference i do understand that however it still is hurting me i mean i'm still getting negative
health effects well and you know what honestly they've got us tied so tight into this system that
to find information i mean you know they're eliminating libraries all over the place that
used to be a huge source of information oh wait you mean like the obama library that
doesn't even have any books in it that's now getting protested in chicago oh well and yeah
pretty much libraries nowadays just have a bunch of computers that are all hooked up to the internet
anyway but uh you know to find really good information is really difficult thing to do but
if people do the homework and look at you know company the things that companies put out about
their technology and this and that and that's that's really my main point here is educate you
know yourself about these type of technologies and the more that you understand about this stuff the
more passionate you become because you you understand the the goal of this stuff you know
dna is manipulated by environmental circumstance and all this stuff that we're putting on us is
literally rearranging our cosmic antenna and you know preventing us from receiving you know like
creator energy and all that stuff and the thing that i do because i don't have access like you
guys with a great audience but if you're like standing at a gas pump and you see somebody next
to you strike up a conversation start talking about this stuff because the only way that
we're going to be able to beat this stuff is by educating yourself becoming passionate
and going out and talking to your friends and your neighbors you know your fellow citizen
about the stuff that's being put on it and this is not this is not a partisan issue either this
is something that affects everybody nobody's really playing this as a left right issue yeah
this is a human issue this is about us as human beings and our safety and security in our own
country our own you know our own homes because like you guys say the radio waves that are flying
around nowadays are bad enough with the implementation of the g5 and you know they've had the wind
transmitters out for many many years you might remember the wind transmitters that were alleged
to be able to manipulate people's attitudes over huge ranges of an area and they already have those
technologies i mean and and that's like that's like a whole nother wing of this discussion
that the population really doesn't even know about that you could have info worse life is
bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine introducing pollen block we have found an
extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting
clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the 1960s researchers in
france noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory
responses they began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have
the fruit of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an antihistamine in fact current research
is found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase which is an enzyme that
amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets nourish a probiotic
friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria
thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is
soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food
absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic
fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is
slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect
head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139
Years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal
yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had
to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the
result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's
natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight
back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered
by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract poudarko bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at infowarslife.com
that's infowarslife.com you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products
we have an info wars life they take hours micro zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger
it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back
in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the
precursor to all the natural hormones of your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot
more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store.com
and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't
awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the
second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
and it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say i don't know what's gonna happen at
the end of this but you want to fight you better believe you got one from the front lines of the
information war it's alex jones well you have seen the viral video of alex jones
confronting bernie sanders at the airport now we reported on it and showed you the footage of
bernie sanders running from alex jones refusing to answer a question but now we're honored as
you're watching the video right now for tv viewers at info wars dot com slash show
most of our audience's radio you're seeing bernie sanders freaking out when he sees alex looking
like a crumb bomb i guess you guys are flying first class are you why is he running you guys
fly first class you shouldn't be i got a coach to get my pocket the only that miss waila i like
it's not done around me i'm gonna walk this way enters over here look right there
bernie why'd you say white people don't touch me alex don't touch me don't touch me alex you
guys have fun gotta be around the general public it's kind of a bad thing you're on the proletariat
like that you're a ruling class commie so there's bernie running from alex you're having fun we're
all having fun there's the footage we're gonna win don't worry america's going back there's a
little minion just look at the slovenly behavior of a bernie sanders doesn't even comb his hair
walks like a crumb bomb mr sanders why do you think socialism works better than capitalism
and why do you live in a capitalist country i don't know why you're running from me you apologize
for the wars you guys launched the democrats all the millions you killed do you enjoy living
your million dollar vacation houses bernie or do you want to give folks two people yeah your hundred
thousand dollar outties anyways anyways anyways you guys have fun
we love reporting all that money you guys running a little pr stuff it's not gonna work
have fun you know
good luck with google it's broken up
hey bernie why'd you say white people don't know what it's like to be poor why aren't you
so racist don't ask for that but you didn't say it moved up in this way look bernie you like it
people like you there so there's the footage i mean it's right there bernie sanders refuses
to answer a question he's running away from alex jones the great the great communist bernie sanders
total fraud let hillary steal the election you know lives in million dollar mansions fancy cars
but but claims he's a socialist but but bernie was so upset that that we reported on him refusing
to talk to alex jones running from alex jones he was so upset that now we're honored bernie is
called into the show i mean i can't believe it's happening so now bernie sanders is called into
the show to defend his honor after running from alex jones like a coward so uh uh bernie you're
claiming you didn't run from alex jones when he was talking to you i mean we had the footage bernie
i mean how are you what are you saying you didn't run from alex jones that's right i did not run
from that man in fact that's all fake news fake fake footage just like the vizuela has the highest
gdp in the world and they're doing great and and and i like black lives matter and you know again
again white people don't know what it's like to be poor to live in a ghetto to be homeless or to be
attacked even though the statistics say it's 10 to 1 black people attacking white people they don't
know and and uh continuing i just wanted to say that since the report was put out it's fake news
okay and the economy's not coming back under under under trump it's been a been a nightmare and and
yes my wife took over burlington college and then bankrupted it took millions but that's not a big
deal because uh you know she was my second wife and when we honeymoons in the soviet union when i
was the mayor of burlington it's part of a program and it used to be a great country where you could
go there and we taught the christians how to get on the damn knees so i just want to call it so i would
never run but when you filthy americans and i didn't run from them and we're gonna catch them we got
your kids in the school and we're giving them really good training i saw in the philadelphia
newspaper just today came out sex ed training with triple x porn and a big old sign that says i love
pizza so you're gonna understand how this all works this is our country not yours and once
we bankrupt your ass we're gonna put you in a freaking reeducation camp on it well bernie uh
we're punk you young american scum we had our boot on the russian floor for 85 years but we're
gonna break your stick in political neck too when we smile down and piss all over the grave of america
and our good good friends into china and in a great human rights record let me tell you also i love
he's a man of courage incredibly intelligent that's pope francis and jesuit because he's not a christian
he's one more red christianity than anyone's done in thousands of years and i think it's beautiful
that we've almost broken western civilizations back so don't you ever try to put me down you
understand that boy no bernie i don't because you're gonna sit here and tell me about the american
economy while people suffering while you're living in million dollar mansions with hundred
thousand dollar cars bernie it doesn't matter that i never had a private sector job when i was
born in brooklyn i was annoyed it was like my brother moved to england to run things there
as a top social worker and a member of the government and we are teaching you that the
family the top social worker that works for my brother said two days ago in england celebrated
the family is almost broken and said we will break your nuclear family but we will have our families
the rest we will have our children and they will rule you i am better than you going and i'm going
to show you i am better than you that's why jeff bezos and tim cook and all the billionaires with
hundreds of billions of peace that's why their tax exempt it's why they pay no tax but then i lecture
people in the united states that aren't part of the combine make a hundred thousand dollars a year
because your money belongs to me is that clear when i am done with you oh and you will not even know
who you ever were because i am superior to you i will run your life is that clear bernie if i gave
you a nickel right now for a comb would you would you comb your hair well that's all part of my
little einstein look okay so what you don't think i don't like to look like a little harmless old man
when us communists have killed 185 million people we wish it was a lot more there's a tank we're
doing it right now in china and the big churches we control them in the u.s now and we're killing
buddhas too by the millions and not one stupid leftist will say a word they like it they like
what we're doing we run your family your children are ours you will never stop me oh and and that's
alex jones our forces are already rallying and we will take you down we will fry you with 5g
and we will fry you a gmo with fluoride we avoid so we can look down at you brain damage
with 20 by two point reduction and then you can have the deformities and you can die and i can be
big i'm gonna kill all of you just like the so-called union i'm so close god she's gotten
to wake up i'm gonna push back i mean i want to hate america bernie you know it sounds to me like
first of all that you're you're actually kind of sound like a gangster based on everything
that you're you're saying and i'm hearing about what you're doing here but you realize bernie
you're losing perp you're you're you're losing popularity i mean you go to the airport nobody
even cares you're there i mean you realize that that nobody likes you now you listen to me hillary
was the anointed one to drive a wedge between men and women even more and so when they took
the election from me i stood down and i took it because the goal for me isn't to be a president
it is to slip the port of western culture and end the family union and annihilate christianity
my will is to put everything i've got into bringing you down and i will do it shroyer
i will bring down info wars dot com no one should spread that damn link you notice google came out
and said all conservatives and nazis noticed we're cutting all your resources off and put
you in electronic kill lags we're going to cut your money off we're going to put you in prison
we're going to take jesus away from you and we're going to piss all over everything you don't
say jesus even in school you don't talk about it you keep your dirty american christian pie or
quiet there it is the scumbag dirt bag bernie sanders calls into the alex john show you
know i'll give you credit bernie you ran from alex then but you'll call in from a phone you'll
got your kids we still got your kids in the school independence is a crucial part of trepting
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable
meals is crucial with info wars life select storable food you can make sure you and your
family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72
hours to a full year there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals
including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for
breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in
a time of need they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy
to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency
make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info
wars life select storable foods president trump gave a speech on friday at the naval academy for
their commencement and said america is back hollywood does not have the megaphone anymore
but patriots that believe in real americana are back in charge and the world is taking notice
ladies and gentlemen to celebrate memorial day and the great sacrifices of our veterans
we are offering free shipping and info wars store dot com and 50 percent off on more than 20
best-selling items like brain force the amazing new tropic helps support the information war
get great products at the same time and continue to fund an operation that is the thorn on the
side of the globalist and is continuing to back president trump and other patriots not just here
but worldwide in support of free market capitalism support of christianity support a family support
a basic freedom huge memorial day specials running throughout this weekend until the month of may
ends and then for store dot com and force live dot com take advantage today you're listening to the
alex jones show okay well uh bernie sanders has actually decided to stick around with us here
now i'll tell you that in the break like a good socialist like a good democrat socialist bernie
sanders decided to insult my mother and then my family so not shocking at that rhetoric from
bernie sanders insulting my family there in the middle of the break but but he wanted to come
back on so so bernie um you know i'm just curious you supported black lives matter you supported
them after even the cop killings and and you praise them so i'm just curious bernie do you
want more dead cops first of all such a dirty christian mouth okay i'm gonna tell you something
right now the word mother the word father he's being removed in canada you up in here it's a
hateful word it's a hateful evil word and we're teaching the children now in sex education nationwide
how being heterosexual is bad and i i agree with that whole agenda and i think that's a good thing
now actually again so i'll do the article in the philadelphia newspaper uh just a few days ago
celebrating that i heard alex jones is going to be covering a little bit later but first
i want to explain something to me you little rat you're a little slave
black lives matter is revolutionary standing up against the oppression of the ruling class
and it's just like sanan said that if somebody you know a cop kills somebody questionably in one
part of the country and then officers get shot in another part who are totally innocent well
they're not innocent and that's not an outrageous message that's officially what we in the communist
i mean socialist party are saying to you right now oh and just get ready for it get ready for it
as soon as we get your guns we're going to have a way with this oh you're going to come for the
guns bernie that's your first plan and then you're going to take we always come for the guns
then offshore banks suck the country dry but bernie didn't hitler come for the guns bernie i mean
didn't didn't hitler come for the the guns and then your your jewish ancestors okay all all
christians all conservatives all nazis that is the official policy of the my king soros and my other
king my good friend the king of the uh child lovers i mean nambler the world chairman of nambler
pope francis you know the king of the uh the king of the pedophiles his deputy pope in jail his other
top pope had caught and indicted he's a good thing here you know i'm sorry i'm getting my
normal gangster accent right now as i was saying why people don't know what it's like to be poor
and uh you're going to find out about that real soon but bernie don't you realize that all of your
hateful rhetoric and your refusal to stand up to hillary clinton stealing the election from you
don't you realize that that's made you very unpopular and all your supporters have turned
their back on you do you even care socialism works 100 percent of the time so does communism it's great
the problem is it can't work when there's still any uh free mara freedom i mean racism going on
you need to let us the big mega banks run and rule everything and then we will take really good
care of you it's totally normal that the fortune 100 big banks and big tax give almost a hundred
percent democrat money and a good tax exempt they know how to run the slaves i mean the
downtrodden people that we're going to save from america we're going to be just like venezuela
we're going to be just like other barriers and this is all part of the larger plan this is what
we do and jeffrey abstein and my other your good friends over there we all know the best for you
and your children so just let the democratic party take control of your children and let hillary
take control what a beautiful angel she is and everything's gonna be all right oh and oh and
just oh and just let me run things can you look at me oh can you look at me i will run things now
it's not clear now say to me say to me the cookie monster i am the cookie monster i am bernie sanders
you will die you will give everything to me no i don't think so bernie i think i think that people
like you are going to jail bernie we will break your will no bernie your wife is being investigated
by the fbi right now bernie no no info wars no no no venezuela communism is collapsing bernie
they are not going to contribute they are not going to buy the products i guarantee it or no no
if you buy any products they can't even get a comb for a nickel in venezuela bernie you are
expecting you are hopeful i am using magic living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on
rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain
heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out
we employed a series of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there
was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested the water
from our alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure
but the ph was also restored to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises
the ph of the water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain
water supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex joneshow and now your
host paul joseph watson we are live it is the fourth hour of the alex joneshow on this june
fifth 2018 edition got a host of issues to get into some positive news in fact a lot of positive
news today starting off with one of the top headlines on info wars dot com right now
poll double the amount of americans think young black people doing better under trump
than obama that's right donald trump is proving once again to be a very very bad racist indeed
this is a new poll out of rasmussen and it's found that double double the number of americans think
that young black people are doing better under trump than they did under obama now if you look at
these figures it's pretty interesting because while 36 percent still say that life for young
black people in america is worse 32 percent said that it's got better under under trump compared
to obama now you look at obama's figures compare this to obama's figures from march 2014 where just
16 percent of americans said that life had gotten better for young blacks under obama and by july
2016 this number had slumped to just 13 percent so it was less than half under the obama administration
compared to the trump administration that thought young black people in america were doing well
now people are going to look at these figures and say oh this is just racist bigoted trump
voters saying that life is better for black people how would they know well no that's not the case
because as rasmussen report reports even black voters are nearly twice as likely 28 percent to
say young black americans are better off now than they were in the closing year of obama's presidency
which was 15 percent so no it's not just trump voters who are skewing these polls
almost doubled the number of black voters say the exact same thing that life has gotten better
for young black people in trumps america trump the bigger to racist america compared to obama's
america now it's not really a big surprise is it given the economic numbers given the black
unemployment numbers now of course this is made even more impressive by the fact that as we know
the mainstream media has been attempting to smear trump as a racist bigot for the best part of the
last two years the trump derangement syndrome has run rampant even though trump was largely seen
before he ran as a republican as very beneficial towards the black community did a lot of charity
work he was even name dropped in numerous rap songs by numerous hip hop artists he was seen as a
friend to the black community before he ran as a republican and then he's a bigot of racist he's
literally hitler so again we have the situation where you know obama was brought in he was heralded
as the the the leader of a new era of positive race relations and yet what was going on when he
left office and in the year before he left office we had the riots in furgus and we had the riots
in baltimore we had the emergence of a black lives matter movement that chanted for dead cops that
soured race relations across the board that anointed as its hero let's not forget an actual
cop killer assorted chicor who was on the fbi's most wanted domestic terrorist list so that that was
obama's accomplishment unfulfilled promises trump came in he offered and he delivered on his promise
which was of course mainly the jobs issue as we saw last week there you see assorted chicor who is
still by the way a fugitive they're still hunting for her i think she was in exile in cuba the last
time anyone heard of her literally involved in murdering police officers and that's who black
lives matter leaders invoke and worship every single event that's the great soothing race
relations that obama brought to america of course last week we found out that black unemployment
hit its lowest level since the government started to record the data in 1972 that black
unemployment level now stands at just 5.9 percent so again donald trump is proving to be a very very
poor racist in fact we just had news about 10 minutes ago which i tweeted breaking noted racist
donald trump to consider pardoning black woman alice marie johnson who was jailed for life for a
first time drug offense of course this came as a result of the meeting with kim kardashian now
trump is considering pardoning alice marie johnson remember there was the famous boxer a couple of
weeks ago that he also pardoned again another african-american so again donald trump not not
not performing too well in terms of being a racist of course we had his meeting with kandice owens
and charlie kerr just about a week ago following canya west public praise for the pro trump activist
and again what did the polls show after that we had the report last month support for trump amongst
black males in the week after karnia west praised kandice owens doubled it doubled how big is that
going to be as we approach 2020 with trump going for reelection absolutely massive and if these
unemployment levels can remain as low or even lower as they've ever been trump is going to pick up
more support amongst african-americans of course he's never going to pick up any anywhere near
a majority of support because they're on the plantation and very much kept there which is why
they fear kandice owens so much in fact today she tweeted that she's probably thinking about running
for political office somewhere in the not too distant future and that is going to absolutely
terrify them because as the polls proved this is actually getting through to black people
specifically getting through to young black people and now we see across the board across america
and and amongst the african-american community they see life as being better for their community
under trump compared to under obama in numbers that are basically doubled that is huge that is
massive as we head towards these midterms now that's this is not in a vacuum let's not forget
given their obsession with identity politics the democrats that left thought they would
recover from the 2016 election they haven't millenials support for democrats is down
nine percentage points since 2016 they haven't picked up anything and in fact they've lost
they've lost their advantage in terms of the midterms remember back in december what was it
they had a 13 point lead on republicans there you see democrats are losing support of millenials
we had obviously oh in earlier talking about mad maxine waters and her handful of millenials that
showed up for her event which is specifically tailored for millenials they had 10 people
in that category show up so that their message just does not resonate they were 13 points ahead
who's talking about a blue wave now who's talking about a blue wave nobody it's collapsed
latest polls show the race for congress is within the margin of error and it's no doubt partly
because of black americans their lives have immeasurably improved as have the lives of many
because of the economic numbers under donald trump so this is going to be huge going forward
and what do the media have in response again every single day oh the white house is in a
constitutional crisis it's either that or it's some bizarre obsessive distraction like now we
have malania trump she has serious kidney a serious kidney operation which other other people have
commented who've had similar operations it's put them out of action for two months she's been gone
what about three weeks i mean she's appeared in public days ago but now she's been gone from you
know public events where she's on camera for about three weeks they've woven conspiracy theories about
her about donald trump like being in a fight with her or her leaving the country it's absolutely
insane remember these are the same people who said that we in the case of cnn's bryan's delta
were reckless conspiracy theorists because we pointed at hillary clinton as she coughed and
stumbled her way through the campaign trail and said maybe there's something wrong with her
maybe she has some kind of health issue we were reckless conspiracy theorists for doing that now
maloney trump has a serious kidney operation she rests up for a couple of weeks she's but she's
back in public life basically now but they're still on with this crazy conspiracy theory that
she's invisible she's disappeared or that donald trump got in a physical fist fight with her
where conspiracy theories where reckless for doing that with hillary with actual evidence
when maloney has a serious kidney operation oh that's serious journalism to frame it to talk
about it in that context absolutely incredible double standards we'll be back on the other side
to talk about it more this is the allege wars dot com be back healthcare reform is confusing but
whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed
prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own healthcare
costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an
association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's
medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org that's
liberty on call dot org it's a no-brainer a big brookie water filter is the one you need period
you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine
disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per
gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcn
listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcn call or click 187799 burky
or big burky water filters dot com that's 187799 b e r k e y hunters anglers campers and survivalists
get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique sling shots
and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com sling bow products are compact and models start
from just 1798 they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and
your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier and archery and truly
modern twist on this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com bacon lovers
we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging
provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in
america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale
price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better
way to power your body fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins
and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the
fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and
support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today patrick in the great nation
of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and
prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the page on my dial-up
internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and followed
all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival shield and
since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality the caveman the real red pill micro zx body it's
all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much it's like
you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the
more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted to say that it's an
honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out here 1776 worldwide
you're listening to the alex jones show
analysis reports it's the alex jones show and now your host paul joseph watson
we are back live on the fourth hour of the alex jones show talking about positive news today of
course i've just spoke about the poll where double the amount of americans think that young black
people in america are doing better under trump than under obama we also have positive news out of
italy which has the globalist very concerned indeed we're going to go to that clip here in a
moment but first i want to tell you about the memorial day blowout special which we're still
running at info wars store.com this is free shipping and up to 50 that's five zero percent
off your favorite products now again i've spoken about this on many previous occasions we're not
subject to the kind of boycott campaigns that hit the impact of the big conservative news outlets
like bright bought or fox news for example we're not subject to that we're not vulnerable to that
because all our products are of course sold in house we're only reliant we're only dependent
on you the listener the viewer which is why we really appreciate you getting these products
to fund this network now again we're continuing the specials from memorial day
where we dropped the prices to unprecedented levels on new and old favorite products now's
the time to take advantage you get free shipping with all of these products and 50 that's a massive
five zero percent off specials include brainforce plus 50 off with free shipping the real red
pill plus also 50 off with free shipping silver bullet is available at 50 off as is alpha power
dna force plus all the flora life products and the info wars life select one year six months
three months food supply again 50 off that is absolutely huge you can get a one year food supply
for half off that is massive now is the time to stock up on that also immune wall and pollen block
both 50 off again everything with free shipping it is the memorial day blowout special available
right now at info wars store dot com now let's go to this video this is the truth about italy this
went up last night absolutely monumental developments in europe barely anyone's talking about this
because that basically they don't want to they're absolutely terrified of this populist wave
sweeping the continent and where it could head next here is the truth about italy
in case you missed it a political earthquake just hit europe an event that has the globally
truly terrified in the most momentous challenge to the status quo in generations italy formed a
populist government why does that matter because italy's ruling populist left right coalition is
both anti mass migration and euro skeptic if italy's grand experiment succeeds it serves as a
template for the rest of europe and a harbinger of doom for the survival of the european union
if you doubt that then just look at how eu commissioner gunther ottinger reacted to the
election saying quote the markets will teach italyans to vote for the right thing in other words
technocrats will punish you for exercising your democratic choice an astounding level of arrogance
but one that we've come to expect from the eu but worse than this the globalists actually attempted
to install a former imf director and euro file as prime minister completely overriding the will of
the people who voted for the exact opposite they've got the nerve to call victor orban an auto crap
when he was democratically elected in a fair fight while literally attempting to institute a
bloodless coup to overturn the results of a national election jonka has the nerve to tell italyans to
work harder and stop blaming the eu for its problems when italy's economic problems only began
after they joined the eurozone before that they were a powerhouse if you doubt how much italy's
populist coalition threatens the european elite just look at how two of its preeminent propaganda
organs the financial times and der spiegel referred to what happened the f t called the
democratically elected coalition barbarians while der spiegel said quote italy is destroying
itself and dragging down europe with it look at how george soros reacted spewing evidence-free
conspiracy theories about matteo salvini being a puppet of putin suffice to say those globalist
tears taste extra salty right now while the new left right coalition has numerous populist planks
the most important of which is undoubtedly its vehement opposition to mass immigration league
leader and interior minister salvini has vowed to deport 500 000 illegal migrants salvini had a
message for illegals during a rally on sunday when he told them quote the free ride is over it's time
to pack your bags the incentive for migrants to reach italy via the mediterranean route a
suicidal venture promoted by soros backs angios and the european union will be eliminated instead
of providing a taxi service for economic migrants falsely labeled refugees italy will crack down
on criminal people smugglers and turn the boats back luigi dimayo leader of the five star movement
has also suggested that gdp will no longer be seen as the primary indicator of economic growth
this represents a wholesale rejection of neoliberalism and a return to a kind of
localist high Tory style protectionist view that rampant capitalism and corporatism has massively
eroded communities and culture this idea that monopoly capitalism has in fact harmed social
cohesion diluted and vulgarized culture and corroded morality is one now taking root amongst
increasing numbers of thinkers and influencers on the new right meanwhile the leagues lorenzo
fontana now minister for families has even suggested that abortion and the promotion of
gay marriage is part of a globalist plot to quote erase our people the new government plans to
address italy's plummeting birthrate by boosting welfare for mothers and providing free child
care facilities by upholding the country's catholic identity and proposing to register and
monitor mosques the populist coalition is also showing its intention to reassert italy's christian
heritage putting itself at loggerheads with the pope who has embraced a wishy washy internationalist
view of islam completely at odds with the fact that islamism is an invasive aggressive doctrine
that threatens the very survival of europe as we know it the coalition also wants to end sanctions
on russia and work with mosco on combating the common threat of islamic terrorism a vital policy
that trump attempted to pursue in america before he was hamstrung by relentless hysterical outbursts
over russian collusion italy's populist coalition has embarked on a policy program that every other
european country should be looking to mirror the global elite will now attempt to portray everything
that happens in the country as a manifestation of chaos and instability in reality the only chaos
and instability is that which is currently consuming the dictatorial arrogant corrupt european union
as voters across the continent reject its arcane discredited Byzantine tyranny italy has said no
to mass immigration no to the EU no to the erosion of its cultural birthright and starting with sweden
in september we can now truly begin to hope that the rest of europe will follow the same course
that is the truth about italy absolutely monumental development in europe and after the
break we're going to tell you how the bilderberg globalists are reacting to this as they prepare
to meet in you guessed italy this is the alex joneshow live info wars dot com we'll be back
get the ultimate knife at an ultimate prize the fox carambit knife finally available in the
us the fox carambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility
for defense and for way less than other knives of this caliber go to the ultimate knife dot com
truly the best knife you will ever own and only available at the ultimate knife dot com use promo
code radio at checkout for free shipping get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at the ultimate
knife dot com you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer
finally someone has come out and written what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government
ever we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run ruled by a shadow
government we got to get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other
people are this is critical to get to read to give them a library to give them a church
get them right now at killing uncle sam book dot com killing uncle sam book dot com
i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from info or store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info or store dot com
i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults
we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as
well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase of
the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support we've taken thousands of years of
known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very
best systems that god gave us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing
z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with
known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it
supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been
taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a
detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to
the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as
focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield
info warslife.com our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products that's why
we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula the real red pill plus the real red pill
plus contains the powerful pregnant alone formula now with an added energy boost now you can support
your heart brain and aging process with an added natural energy boost the proprietary energy blend
includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract your bimate leaf extract and more paired with
the powerful ingredients in the original real red pill formula the real red pill has just what you
need to support your body while getting the pick me up to get you through the day the real red pill
plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body don't miss out on the all
new upgrade to your favorite product head to info wars store.com and get the real red pill plus today
get real red pill plus now at 50 off you're listening to the alex jones show
you found it the tip of the spear it is the alex jones show and now your host paul joseph watson
we're back it is the fourth hour of the alex jones show now this election in italy should be one
of the biggest stories on the planet we're talking about the first populist government in europe
for generations this is absolutely huge and let's not forget what they tried to do last week
imagine for a second if you know donald trump had won the election which he did and then the
electoral college said oh by the way we're not gonna let donald trump take his position in the
oval office we're gonna give it to hillary clinton instead sorry your votes mean absolutely nothing
that's literally what they tried to do in italy they tried to install this technocrat
who was a former imf official a euro file until they had another election the two winning parties
who were still arguing over how to form a coalition didn't want that to happen the italian people
didn't want it to happen but the technocratic government simply said oh we're gonna do it
anyway thankfully it didn't work i imagine they would have been have riots on the streets if
they'd have tried to pull it off but now we have an agreement we have a platform a policy platform
which as i said in that video should be mirrored across the rest of the continent and we have the
globalist running scared drudge report linked to this earlier it is up on info wars dot com
build above globalist concerned about populist uprising in europe don't take my word for it
go and look at their agenda it's number one on the list the annual elitist confab is set to meet
this week in turin which is an appropriate venue given that italy has just elected an anti mass
migration eurosceptic coalition government let's not forget the promise made by salvini is to
deport not only to stop migrants coming in economic migrants who aren't real refugees
but to deport half a million illegal aliens already in italy that is an absolutely huge number
but he's promised to do it meanwhile we have the EU we have the globalists trying to punish all
these different european countries by forcing them to take migrants when they don't want to italy has
said no italy has rejected it and now the build above globalists are not happy what are they
going to do about it well what did they do about brexit nothing apart from try to derail it after
it was already voted for which is exactly what they're going to do try and do again
now the list for the build above group annual confab has been released as several high profile
individuals on it has all the usual people that you would expect but it's their agenda that's key
because again this is always vague it's always nonspecific but number one on the list they're
talking about the populist movement across europe so they're very concerned about what's happening
in italy because again it could be the example that could set the stage for the rest of the continent
so absolutely monumental developments and nobody's talking about it should be one of the biggest
stories on the planet now nobody's talking about it nobody was really even talking about it last
week when they literally tried to have a bloodless coup and install a technocrat absolutely incredible
situation now you've probably seen the news about miss america will not contestants will no longer
be judged on personal appearances that's right gretchen colson who is now apparently the head
of miss america has basically said that it's more important what comes out of their mouths that's
what we should care about i mean after all it's not like this is a beauty pageant is it yeah
that's exactly what it is it's a beauty pageant these women are supposed to be judged on their
attractiveness on their physical appearance on their beauty that's the whole point this is the
depths of stupidity have not been plumbed until we saw this story today i mean we've had the stories
about banning grid girls the nfl discussing now banning cheerleaders they're banning booze babes
all across the western world now miss america contestants will no longer be judged on personal
appearances but generally speaking the kind of lame overforced virtue signaling cliches that they
can come out with that's what they're going to be judged on which of course will lead to women
who aren't attractive who are fat and ugly feminists trying to take part in this and trying to win it
and some of them probably will win it if this is the new standard for beauty contestants will be asked
to quote demonstrate their passion intelligence and overall understanding of the job of miss america
which of course is completely dull and boring nobody will watch that they've banned the swimsuit
contest they've banned the evening gown contest nobody is going to watch your stupid beauty pageant
if it's not even a beauty pageant you utter idiots but again we've seen this elsewhere haven't we
we've seen it with the nfl kneeling in front of the anthem we've seen it in the award shows the
golden globes the oscars well they've turned them into basically a mechanism to amplify
cliched woke social justice narratives and how did americans respond how did they respond to the
nfl controversy they turned away in their droves how did they respond to the golden globes to the
oscars lowest ratings ever this ain't gonna work they're literally committing suicide so they can
have some kind of lame virtue signaling moment that nobody even cares about the changes are part
of an effort to bring the contest in line with the me too movement which of course now we know
has been completely exploited and exaggerated to basically denounce everyone as guilty until proven
innocent to the point where now 25 percent of us millennial men think that asking a girl out on a
date is sexual harassment yeah how's that gonna go how's that gonna go with marriage rates already
declining fertility rates declining people not having kids anymore how's that gonna work out for
you carlson who by the way was a very poor fox news host she's probably the worst one there said
we've heard from a lot of young women who say we'd love to be a part of your program but we don't
want to be out there in high heels in a swimsuit that's the point so guess what you don't have to
do that anymore okay so why don't we why don't we apply this to everything why don't we say oh
by the way there's those long jumpers you know the long jumpers in the olympics we're not gonna
judge it anymore on how long they can jump no we're gonna judge it on the kind of speech they give
beforehand we're gonna judge we're not gonna judge olympic swimmers on how well they swim we're not
gonna judge the 100 meters race on who gets to 100 meters the quickest now we're gonna judge it on
who can recite feminist flam poetry the quickest this is the race to the bottom in terms of quality
and it's utterly utterly stupid but again i've talked about it before we had the grid girls
you had the boob babes you had the cheerleaders going now this is going the same way the whole
point of miss america is the enjoyment of objective standards of beauty and that's what this is all
about it's about fat ugly feminists it's about far left social justice warriors launching war on
objective beauty standards because they literally think there's a giant patriarchal conspiracy
which has been you know foisted on the world in coordination in a conspiracy with the beauty
industry that these objective standards of beauty you know women who are have an attractive base
have an attractive body workout of physically in shape have certain hip to waist ratios which again
scientifically proven to have objective standards of beauty they literally think that's a giant
conspiracy that people got behind closed doors and talked about for decades and that that's why
men are attracted to attractive women they literally think that and this is the kind of
intersectional insanity that is now ruining everything they won't be satisfied until they've
ruined absolutely everything they won't be satisfied until their puritanical g had against
fun is complete now as i write in the article you know what's next is you know miss america miss
miss sounds pretty transphobic to me why don't we have hordes of fat hairy men why aren't they allowed
to enter given that attractiveness is no longer an advantage okay you're saying that attractiveness
personal appearance no longer matters where are the fat hairy men i mean maybe i can enter and you
know given that that's not a standard for victory attractiveness anyone can win absolutely anyone
can win so again the intersectional nonsense that they've tried to inject into everything you see
it across the board you see in sport you see it in hollywood you see it in award shows you even see
it in art where now a piece of art isn't judged on its objective beauty or the skill or craft that
went into it it's judged on whether or not it has the right social justice message they're turning
everything into an amplification device for their narrative for their insane propaganda which
fundamentally is an attack on the family and an attack on basic normal biology this is the alex
john show live will be back after the break in four wars dot com living in volcano may sound more
dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on
the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash
may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels
to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned
was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater
next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored to optimal levels as it turns out
the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water so what we've learned is that volcanic
ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply but more importantly a good water filtration
system will purify it staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or
wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet
simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the
spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info
wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com alex jones here with an extremely exciting
announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the global
celebrity society several years ago i set out with top formulators in the us to create the
strongest most concentrated over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know
from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that
this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product info wars life
dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power
exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for
your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made the us a get your alpha power today
at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha power today western europe has already banned
free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down over the uk they're set to pass
rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gauge you'll get six months in prison we know
we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn and many others are
calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a professor and others
saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the most hated
news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com
or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
you're listening to the alex jones show
broadcasting live from the un stronghold austin texas you're listening to the alex jones show
and now your host paul joseph watson
go back it is the final segment of the fourth hour of the alex jones show now before the break
we were talking about the miss america contest contestants to be no longer judged on personal
appearance now the studio reminded me of this video that we have which we're going to roll now
because it's very appropriate given what gretchen carlson said to justify this move we're not only
only banning the swimsuit contest and the evening gown contest they're saying that the contestants
will no longer be judged on their personal beauty in a beauty pageant but they will be judged on
according to gretchen carlson what comes out of their mouths because according to her that's what
we care about let's listen to what came out of the mouth of one beauty contestant i think this
was miss teen usa in this infamous clip let's roll it okay recent polls have shown a fifth of
americans can't locate the us on a world map why do you think this is i personally believe
that us americans are unable to do so because uh some people out there in our nation don't have
bounce and i believe that our education like such as south africa and iraq everywhere like such as
and i believe that they should uh our education over here in the us should help the us or should
help south africa it should help the iraq and the asian countries so we will be able to build up
our future or thank you very much south carolina okay so we're being told that we should judge beauty
pageant contestants based not on their appearance but on what comes out of their mouths according to
gretchen carlson that's what we should care about well that's what comes out of their mouths and that's
not the point is it literally no one cares what comes out of their mouths unless they say something
stupid because we're not trying to find the next rocket scientist we're not trying to find the next
brain surgeon we're trying to find miss america the most attractive woman of course there are other
categories but the beauty the attractiveness the personal appearance has to be prime amongst them
given that it's a beauty pageant and again they say oh we need to provide good role models for
young women so provide those two you can provide academic you can provide intellectual role models
for young women as well as having beauty pageants those two things can exist in the same world you
utter morons and again they did some goal of this there's some objective the eventual consequence
would be to take away opportunities from attractive young women who maybe aren't the most intelligent
but are intelligent enough to use their looks to get ahead in life and why would anyone deprive them
of that if you're an actual feminist why are you trying to deprive women of opportunities
again they they they put out a tweet today the official miss america twitter account
where they showed a bikini going up in smoke with the hashtag bye bye bikini well i don't
know about bye bye bikini i think it's going to be bye bye viewers for you because the american
people have spoken when you've tried to insert this lame floppy virtue signal and crap into
everything else they've rejected it time and time again people are sick of social justice of
intersectional nonsense being injected into absolutely everything when they're trying to
watch a football game when they're trying to watch a beauty pageant when they're trying to get away
from politics for five frigging minutes and they can't because you just keep shoving it down their
throats bye bye bikini no bye bye viewers bye bye miss america absolutely
moving off tapping in the uk we have another poll out the uk today which kind of relates to this
this is the headline out of west monster 66 of britain political correctness has gone too far
every day now in the mainstream media the talk is of being offended or something being banned back
in the real world though brits have had enough of bs political correctness they're all too often
stifles debate comedy and fun and beauty pageants number crunching politics polling firm cap x has
found that 66 percent of brits think political correctness has gone too far only nine percent
saying it hasn't gone far enough now these figures include 41 percent who say that it is on much too
far and an additional 25 percent saying it has gone a little too far so you're talking about the
clear majority of the british people who think the political correctness has gone too far yet
the point that this article makes again is it's that nine percent that hardcore nine percent
that's permanently offended over absolutely everything they're the ones who the companies
apologize to they're the ones who create the mass mob outrage online campaigns to shame to silence
people into basically cowardice rolling over groveling genuflecting to these idiots who don't
have any real power but just because there's a few of them and they're noisy about it people cave
people back down people need to stop caving and backing down to these idiots because they're nowhere
near the majority they're a tiny minority and they should be completely ignored
now over in france we have a fake news law being passed this is out of afp
france's fake news law leaves media experts uneasy france is the latest country attempting to fight
the scourge of fake news with legislation but opponents say the law won't work and could even
be used to silence critics now they're calling it an attempt by the government this this is actually
what the government said they're talking about manipulation of information in the run-up to
elections they want to have the power to stop manipulation of information now of course that
is so vague that it could be used blanket style to silence dissent to silence alternative information
to silence scandalous information potentially about political candidates about establishment
political candidates so we see this across the board of course the EU's threatening to find
people who don't remove fake news within 24 hours facebook has had a system where people can flag
fake news it completely backfired it only made that news go more viral now of course there are fake
news websites that put out genuinely fake news but what they're trying to do with this is apply it
in a vague slapdash fashion so again it silences conservative content and it's in the algorithm
i've said it over and over again we're all slaves to the algorithm the studies show that they can
shift millions millions of votes prior to elections simply based on what search results come up first
in terms of negativity and positivity towards a certain political candidate or a certain political
party i mean i can barely even find news articles that i've written that i'm trying to reference
while writing a new news article on google because they've buried them in the algorithm
so much you can put in the exact headline into the search bar you can put my name you can put
infowars.com and it still doesn't find it because they've buried infowars.com in the algorithm
they're doing the exact same thing on facebook this is the war of the algorithm this is what will
decide future elections and this is why to some extent these monopolies which are not free market
need to be regulated and people need to have an internet bill of rights now speaking about europe
again this is out of Breitbart donkirk lorry driver stabbed by migrants trying to break into
britain lorry driver has been seriously injured by two migrants who were trying to break into his
vehicle for a ride to britain at the rest stop near donkirk this was a list uanian who was taking
a break after several hours of driving at rest area in the town of craywick in france when he
heard noises in his truck basically they ambushed him they stabbed him trying to get a free ride
again last week we had a story about female truck drivers being threatened with rape if they don't
let these migrants get on board and sneak into the country they raised the calais migrant camp
they just went to different areas of france they're living on the streets paris is basically an
open air migrant camp they're saying oh you can just take over these parks it's absolute bedlam
the calais migrant camp itself is slowly coming back into existence again they haven't dealt
with the problem which is why we need governments like the one in italy which is vowed to deport
500 000 illegals and stop this insane program of basically being a victim of the e use threats
and intimidation to forcibly take migrants to forcibly erase their own populations absolutely
incredible situation meanwhile over in sweden municipal residents will pray for diversity
on their own national day this is the municipality of fallou which celebrates national day basically
swedans july the fourth on wednesday but they've been told by the local municipality that instead
they will be praying for diversity now let's not forget that sweden is a country who they
appointed as the head of their national heritage board somebody who admitted who was a muslim
migrant who admitted that he knew nothing about swedish heritage and what little he did know
about swedish heritage was racist now of course sweden is in the same boat as italy to some extent
they've got a big election coming up in september the nationalist the anti mass migration party
doing really well and we hope they have massive success we hope they mirror the example the
fantastic example set by italy that's going to wrap it up for the fourth hour war room is coming up
next info wars dot com don't go away you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars
life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
el tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural
mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your
body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not
be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum
standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting
natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
