from the front lines of the information war. It's Alex Jones. Yeah! They thought they could
take America down. They thought they could have a G7 summit in Canada and rub America's
face in the dirt. And Trump said, no! America will lead the world, not your globalist confab
of a bunch of cronies who want to sell humanity down the drain. Now I'm fired up today and
President Trump is fired up today and Alex Jones is fired up today on this Friday, June
8th, 2018. We now go live to Alex Jones on the road. Alex, how refreshing is it to see
a president that essentially flips the bird to the globalist at the G7 summit? That's
right. Coming up in the next segment, we will play the clip. He seems to be going out to
Marine One helicopter to take off to the G7. And he pointed out that he's trying to play
nice with Trudeau. He's trying to play nice with McCrime and others, but he tore into
him and said, listen, Russia should be in the G7 back to G8. They were taken out five
years ago by Obama and the globalist. Whether you like it or not, this is the only place
Trump's been behind on. He was ahead of it during the campaign, the clear alliance that
the Patriots in the Pentagon, there's bad guys there too. There's three different fashions
really, but there's two dominant ones. The Patriots in the Pentagon, so we should link
up with Russia. They've got incredible resources, four times our land mass, more resources than
even Africa. They've become a Christian nation. They've got lower taxes than us. We should
link up. But geographically, we'll control the whole planet. We can stop communist China.
We can block the giant Islamic invasion, but basically the globalist plan, but no, no,
no, that's why the whole Russiagate thing had to start was to basically block the illegal
spying they were doing on Trump and to sit there and project it. Russia was the enemy,
not communist China that the globalist are allied with. So Trump now, for a year and
a half, the only place he's really been lacking is that he allowed them to basically put him
into a position where normally a US president within one month of being in office would
have met with the leader of Mexico, the leader of Canada, the leader of the UK, then China,
then Russia. That's generally the order of importance or so. You see, first meet with
your regional neighbors, but no, that's not happened over a year and a half after this
historic time of him being in office, always saying, oh, I'll meet with him in a month.
I'll meet with him in a month. It's never happened because of the optics, but now with
a big peace deal with Kim Jong-un already arriving in Singapore, you know, ahead of
that coming up with the Bilderberg group and the EU and so much trouble with Trump approvals
ratings, searching even in staged polls for the economy coming back with all these great
things that are happening with double digit gains with black Americans supporting Trump
with all of these exciting things happening. Trump feels the confidence now to throw down
the gauntlet and basically call out the whole criminal cabal inside the FBI to call out
the illegal spying to call out the situation with Russia and say it's time for Russia
to be back in the G seven, making up the G eight. It's time to actually start building
a constructive future. So peace is breaking out. The globalist having worldwide strategy
of tension. That's the scientific military industrial complex, geopolitical part loss
or nomenclature. They want a strategy of global tension crises so that they can keep humanity
under their control, instead of having a world based on constructive economic systems moving
forward. Still, there'll be military issues. There'll still be all sorts of problems, but
humanity faces so many big problems that if we don't focus together, we can really work
together as individual nations with the common goals that we aspire through a free market
of ideas for. Most top analysts agree that we will not become a type one civilization,
meaning non viable outside of this planet and probably destroying ourselves or at least
knocking ourselves back into a new dark age. So ladies and gentlemen, the globalist had
decided on a post industrial world for 99% of us in a breakaway civilization for themselves.
They decided on neo feudalism as a way of control. That is now being rejected across
the planet with elections this week all over the world in Canada, in Germany, in Italy,
everywhere. Super hardcore patriots that talk just like yours truly, that talk just like
Donald Trump, that talk just like Ron Paul. We are literally taking the planet back right
now intellectually, culturally, militarily and the vampires are in a full panic mode.
All right, when we come back on the other side, it's going to be Alex Jones breaking
it all down for you and then a loaded show with guests all day long. It's all Americana
all day. Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products. That's why we've
created the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the real red pill plus. The real
red pill plus contains the powerful pregnant alone formula. Now with an added energy boost.
Now you can support your heart, brain and aging process with an added natural energy boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate
leaf extract and more paired with the powerful ingredients in the original real red pill
formula. The real red pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the
pick me up to get you through the day. The real red pill plus is a powerful investment
into the future of your mind and body. Don't miss out on the all new upgrade to your favorite
product. That's infowarstore.com and get the real red pill plus today. Get real red pill
plus now at 50% off. The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now your host, Owen Shroyer. I think everybody can feel the energy right now. The human energy.
The energy of liberty rising worldwide here on this Friday, June 8, 2018. Welcome to the
Alex Jones show. We're going to be going to Alex Jones here just momentarily, but loaded
schedule for you. Not just a ton of important news that we need to get to. We also have
a loaded guest schedule that you're not going to want to miss today. So today is the day.
Share that link with your family and friends. Tell your friends and family about infowarstore.com.
Tell them about the Alex Jones show. Share that link. They're blocking us on the internet.
They're blocking us on social media. So we need you, the human intelligence to share
today's link while we break it all down with these expert guests. So again, Alex Jones
taking over here in just a minute. Then he's going to be interviewing Howard Kaplan for
the remainder of the first hour. Austin Fletcher from Fleckis Talks joins me in the second
hour. He's got all these great videos where he goes out on the streets and just shows
the liberal indoctrination brainwashing for what it is. Leo Zagami then joins me at 1230
Central. He's going to be talking about the populist nationalist uprising in Italy as
well as what's going on with the Bilderberg group, which is meeting in Turin. Christopher
Noweem will join me at the one o'clock hour to discuss everything President Trump has
done for the veterans. We remember what the VA hospitals were like when Trump took over.
Actually they're coming back now and the veterans are very grateful for that. He just signed
a new deal this week. Christopher Noweem was part of that. He's going to break that down
for us in the third hour. And then Dan Lyman also from Turin, Italy, covering the Bilderberg
group for Infowars Europe will be joining me then before Dr. Nick Begich, an expert on
all things globalism and Bilderberg group, takes over the fourth hour. But now I throw
to Alex Jones to update you on all the breaking news right now when it comes to President
Trump, the G7 and the globalist collapsing.
That's right. And just this morning, Rob Reiner on the view, the guy that says we're
in the middle of a revolution against America, the guy that says we should shut down conservative
and libertarian and Christian voices, a truly monstrous globalist that put out all those
fake videos with Morgan Friedman saying Trump's a Russian agent, all of that garbage. He went
on and said, oh, we get our news from Alex Jones. That's the problem of America is in
so much trouble. They get their news from Infowars. And the truth is, I'm on a family
vacation, a work vacation part of the time. I have never been mobbed so much as I am right
now by locals, by black people, by white people, by Coptic Christians, by Hispanic folks who
are big Omar Navarro fans, by the way. It is unbelievable that I can be sitting under
a cabana with a towel on my head. And people recognize my voice and just come in and shake
my hand. It's amazing. And it shows how awake people are. And so whatever the globalists
are doing to Infowars, the signal has already gone out. The dominoes are already falling.
We're talking about nationalist patriots winning elections in dozens of countries the last
year. And now it's accelerating all over the planet. People want freedom. People want liberty.
Global elections in Canada, elections in Spain, elections in Italy, just elections everywhere.
It's also happening in Latin America. People are pulling out of globalism. They're recognizing
the multinational corporations as anti-free market and predatory. This is a big day now.
That said, Trump obviously getting on Marine One this morning, sent shockwaves around the
world under the hearts of the neocons and the globalists and the neoliberals when he
said, listen, I don't care what Trudeau, I don't care what Macron, I don't care what
other people say. We're bringing Russia back in to the G7. Again, five years ago, Obama
and others had him taken out. And again, one of Trump's only failings is that he let them
bully him into a position of not meeting with Putin for a year and a half officially. Normally,
that's one of the most important countries you meet with. They have nuclear weapons.
They're a large nation, a big trading partner, very strategic. Obviously, all this Russia,
Russia, Russia made up, Fable has kept from that, but now strong on the eve of him meeting
with the North Korean dictator to try to end that whole regime and merge the two and phase
out one of the greatest evils in history. With all the other big accomplishments happening,
as Spygate being one of the top stories and bringing the deep state to its knees with
all of this, now Trump is making his move, mostly saying, listen, all over Europe, all
over the world, people understand that Russia's been given a raw deal, understand that Russia's
reformed, they understand that the very same globalist forces that took over Russia a hundred
years ago, literally 102 years ago now, are the enemy. And that humanity's waking up to
these eugenicist social engineers, and we're waking up to atheism and anti-family garbage.
And all of this being a prepackaged, admitted system of the robber barons to con the newly
freed serfs of Europe and Russia back into slavery, but that's all declassified, that's
all public.
So here's Trump saying, I don't care what these other people say, Russia should be in
this, Russia shouldn't be cut out. So he's making up for the year and a half of being
on the defensive, boldly coming in, which I said when he first got elected, I said, your
first meeting ought to be with Russia, to just get it out in the open, to say it's
absolutely ridiculous. I'm the president, other presidents met with Russian leaders
back when they were Communist dictatorship. I'm allowed to meet with whoever I want, isn't
it good? We both got nuclear weapons, let's be friends and move forward. But he didn't
do that. But now he's doing it boldly, so history's happening, I can't wait to see
what's going to happen in the next two and a half years. So let's go ahead and play
a clip of the president just a few hours ago.
Russia should be in this meeting. Why are we having a meeting without Russia being in
the meeting? And I would recommend, and it's up to them, but Russia should be in the meeting,
it should be a part of it. You know, whether you like it or not, and it may not be politically
correct, but we have a world to run. And in the G7, which used to be the G8, they threw
Russia out, they should let Russia come back in, because we should have Russia at the negotiating
table.
And the president goes on from there to lay it out. This is total, complete common sense.
It's reality. They got 10,000 nuclear weapons. They've been battling radical Islam. They
were the first country to help us after 9-11. And they are really wanting to come to the
table economically, and they want investment. They know that 90% of the investment's been
in the third world in China. They know that the US hasn't had investment in its own country.
They know that Russia was put under similar systems of economic control because we're
Christian, and because we're supposed to be broken. We have all the documents. We have
Obama calling us bitter clingers. We have them calling us flyover country. There is
an existential will to dominate Western culture by the megabanks, by the big tax-free foundations,
by the Jeff Bezos, by the Tim Cooks, by the Bill and Melinda Gates of the world, by the
Warren Buffets. All these stinking monsters, look it up, are the biggest recipients of
banker bailouts, the biggest recipients of corporate welfare, the biggest recipients
of tax-free operations. They are monsters. Their domestic money goes in tax-free foundations.
They can use however they want. Their foreign operations pay zero tax, or in the case of
Google, 0.3%. This is the reality. I pay total, looking at all the taxes I pay every year,
34% of the money that comes in that I keep for my family is paid into taxes. There's
no loopholes for Alex Jones, who's got close to 100 people employed, from the janitors
to the packing crew, to the legal folks, to the camera crew operators, to the webmasters,
to the video editors, to the writers, to the reporters, to the producers, to everybody.
No, no, no. Not there, not there. And I'm somebody, again, who puts 95% of the money
back in the company. And I'm somebody that then saves some of the other money to battle
the legal attacks I knew were coming years ago. People say, how are you expanding still?
How are you fighting all this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I do all this from a military
perspective of long-term war. And I'm just going to leave it at that. But we do need
your support more than ever, because we are now going into reserves to continue the expansion
in the face of the enemy. And we will crush them. We will break their back. We see victory
within sight on every level. We see the spirit of humanity awakening, but it's going to
take prayer. It's going to take vigilance. It's going to take action on the streets.
It's going to take action online. It's going to take never backing down, never giving in.
And it's going to take wear and t-shirts out in the open to say, in FullWars.com, or Trump
Pence 2020. It's going to take exercising your free speech. It's going to take calling
in the C-SPAN, going and speaking of the city council. It's going to take going and
finding out what's happening at your local public school, what they're teaching the young
people. The left and the globalists have invaded every corner of our society, the church.
They are trying to sell us on absolute security. Within these bubbles they control, we're
already...
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad. Did you know that the American
College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home, or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain. Long distance
travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us. That's why we design
and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon. Just go to amazon.com and search
for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Care reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping
your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system
has become a challenge. Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty HealthShare.
Liberty HealthShare is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite
with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs. Neighbor helping
neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon. Get
the original and most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey
or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right. Now's the time to build your own food
storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check
out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use. And let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire
meals. Woo, that's what I'm talking about. And when compared to traditional methods of
preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery
store, there is no comparison. Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste,
color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years. Now that's what I
call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable
freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
For more information on the Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers, go to infoorstore.com.
Which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body. Go outside
and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infoorstore.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable
tablets. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Trashing through the lies and disinformation. It's Alex Jones on the GCN radio network.
And now Republicans, you're the Alex Jones party. There is literally nothing too stupid
and conspiratorial that you will not swallow. Some tweeted terrible just found out that
Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is
McCarthyism. And other one, how low has President Obama gone to tap my phones during the very
sacred election process? And this weekend we saw another example of that when White House
counselor Kellyanne Conway was asked if she had any proof or Trump's outlandish claim
that Obama wiretapped him during the campaign and offered this bizarre answer. How does
he know that his phone was actually tapped? Let me answer that globally. He's the President
of the United States. He has information and intelligence that the rest of us do not.
He is suggesting a U.S. president enlisted a foreign intelligence service to spy on a
political adversary. That is the explosive charge. This is a serious allegation. This
might be the most serious allegation any president has made against a previous president.
But this is a very serious allegation for a sitting president to make about his predecessors.
The craziest thing about Trump calling for an investigation without any evidence. Zero
evidence. Trump has not produced a shred of evidence. There was no evidence for Trump's
claims. The evidence did not come. So where did Trump get his info? From the CIA? From
the FBI? Where are you getting this information? From a very reputable source. What? The FBI?
The CIA? Infowars. It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones. You know he's legit? This bizarre
circular thing happening where the president cites a theory that he was wiretapped which
developed on this kind of fringe right wing media. And then after his tweet storm, Infowars
then started saying, well look, it was the New York Times that reported it, citing our
story, misreading our story. And now a few weeks later, the White House and the president
are citing info wars. So they've got one kind of bizarre right wing fringe theory to defend
another bizarre right wing fringe theory. The crazier it gets, the more they like it.
That's their jam. And we are back live. Alex Jones here via the phone on the road. I want
to show you're in the Central Texas News Center. A bunch of powerful guests coming up. In fact,
the next guest is the key to bring down the whole globalist operation even faster and
a lot less bloody. But first, you just saw a few of the clips of them in the last year
and a half saying Trump's completely insane, no one was spying on him, even though they
had admitted that they were spying on him. And even though nine months ago they put out
a inspector general's report saying three times they were approached and given false
information to give them warrants in parallel construction against Trump, which is totally
illegal. So when you have the inspector general report of the courts coming out, issuing these
things, you know, you've got a serious, serious issue when the federal courts are saying we
have major fraud going on. When Trump was only six months into office, they went public.
So here's the big niche. Let me just tune in. You just heard them saying that no one's
spying on Trump. Now, remember, once they had to admit he was being spied on and Clapper
went on the view three weeks ago and they all had to come out admitted. He went, well,
we are spying. We were spying. I don't like to call it that. And then Bill Maher and people
said, well, we weren't spying on him, but we were watching you because you're a damn
Russian agent. So that's their game. Oh, Jones's source that we were spying on Trump
was the New York Times story that he misread. I mean, you know, that he lied about hoping
you don't go read the story. Or if you do, it's that Jedi mind trick of you crazy person.
We weren't spying on you. We were just spying on you because you're full of dirty Russians.
I mean, that's the level of the mind control we're dealing with. So what is in fours big
crime? Why are we the most hated by the globalist? It's because we have a memory. And I know
I keep saying this every day because it's the key to everything. Resistance standing
up, having the truth, right on your side and having a memory. And look, people have memories
for stuff they like. I know guys that don't baseball scores from 60 years ago for no reason.
I don't know people to know, you know, what, how many yards the Terry Bradshaw through
four and Super Bowl, whatever. But they don't know about the three branches of government
and they don't remember any of these political things because that's that boring adult stuff.
Who wants to know about that? Well, our brains are designed to know about that. So, Rob
Reiner, a guy with hundreds of millions of dollars who claims he's a socialist and a
communist, has come out and said we're in a revolution against America and against the
Midwest. And then we're in the final revolution and we're going to crush the American people.
This guy came out of the view and said, oh my God, we're in trouble because we get our
news from Alex Jones. Well, no, you don't get your news. You get your way back machine.
You get your memory. All we do is point out what is really going on, what they said they
would do versus what they did. Now, Trump loves that because Trump has about a 95 percent
score on what he's actually delivered on and the promises he's kept. And we've been
real mad at him on the few things he went back on. That said, ladies and gentlemen,
the Democrats have basically a 100 score for lying. And it's not failure. They do it by
design. They're globalists. They're henchmen. And now the Republican establishment and the
Democratic establishment are being removed. And so they're panicking. So here's me head,
Mr. Rob Reiner, panicking, saying, oh my God, they get their news from M-Full Wars. Here
it is.
But this is the first time we've had a president that's supported by mainstream media. I mean,
Fox's mainstream media. And there's, you know, between that and Breitbart and Sinclair
and Alex Jones, there are 40 percent of the country are getting their news only there.
But there are also people getting their news from MSNBC, the other that are left-leaning.
So, you know, just to balance it out.
No, no, that's true. That is true. But you can't penetrate that 40 percent and you can
win elections with 40 percent. You don't need to move them.
Okay. So what he's saying is we need to be shut down. And of course he's misrepresenting
as well. It's way above 40 percent to get their news from different sources. Mainstream
media is imploding. All their ratings are in the tank. CNN has flatlined. That's the
reality. And so he's up there saying, oh, my God, because of Sinclair, because of Breitbart,
you know, obviously it's really drug-report. Because of all of this, oh, my God, we can't
win. He's sickening everyone on us saying, we're the problem. Yeah, we are the problem.
For liars, we're here reminding people that you said Obama care would be free. That you
said it would be the cost of a cable bill. Then you said we keep our doctors. We're here
reminding you that Obama couldn't get a 3 percent growth rate. Trump's about to announce
a 4 percent. Reminding that they couldn't get peace deals in North Korea, we're probably
about to see one. Reminding you that we could fix the VA because you set it up by design
to basically kill people. You guys have the nation tied down. You've been preying on us
for all these years. And now humanity has awoken and you don't know what to do because
I'm gonna play clips of them saying the intelligence agencies are gonna get Trump. We've been spying
on him. We know he's a Russian agent. Then Trump calls their bluff. They go, we never
said that. We never said that. We're gonna remind people, meet Ed, what a dirty, filthy,
the class warfare rich man you are that is a soulless piece of crap, racist piece of filth
that uses racism to control people with your dirty globalist systems. You think you're
better than all the rest of us. You're not better than all the rest of us. And all you
New World Order globalists that want to ally yourself with radical Islam and want to implode
the first world and all you left is to even want to sacrifice Israel, the altar of your
whole Islamic jihad with that devil pedophile Pope. It's all coming down. All the popes
top men have been indicted and are now in trial. The dozens of them, does the deputy
Pope on down are all being arrested right now. You're all being arrested. And we come
back, I'll give you my take on Anthony Bordeaux and what really happened with him on the other
side. And then we have a gentleman that is the keys to victory straight ahead who went
to the Pennsylvania event where here Clinton was meeting and brought up Mr. Epstein, the
lead to express Harvey Weinstein and the convicted pedophile operations and the slave
islands, all the confirmed stuff, not speculation. You know, not things we can't prove, but
they want revenge on the common house fly. Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally
come up with a better way, the bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary
table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget
you have a wife and kids, 39, 95 and free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and
get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com. Fire your fly swatter. Get your bug assault
today.
In Full Wars Life and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winner's
Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winner's Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional
supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as
lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins
and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research
and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Sun vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin
D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting. Visit
infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping. Between debt crisis, natural
disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With
infowars life selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for
any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full
year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals. Including
meals such as traveler's stew, home-style potato soup, and a variety of other meals
for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Infowars life selects storable food will help you
eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour
kit to go, and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip. Don't
be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the
food you need for an affordable price with infowars life selects storable foods.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found
here in Leilani estates, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater, and we
need to be concerned about ash and acid rain. Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles,
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed
a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH. What we learned was that there was
in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater. Next, we tested
the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within
safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As it turns out, the filter
on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned is that volcanic ash
and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply. But more importantly, a good water
filtration system will purify it.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live. Thank you so much. Alex Jones from the road. I'll
show you the studio. We have a very, very special guest. We're on Bill Clinton in this
particular fashion. We'll be going to him in a moment. We can't extend this free shipping
sale much longer with our bestselling items at M4Store.com. In fact, we can only run it
a few more days, maybe four or five days max. We're also running out of some of our bestselling
items like our amazing Neutropic Rainforce. It's $19.95. Leading competitors are $60 and
aren't even as good. It's a great deal normally at $39.95. Rainforce, you've never tried it.
This is a great opportunity. $19.95. It is amazing. Also, alpha power is 50% off. If
you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina, focus, libido. It
does so many things. It does not grow your hair back. They did a news review of it saying
I said that and said I was a liar. Would you not say that? But you'll read the thousands
and thousands of reviews per item to see what it's done for other people. X2, even though
we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals of the good halogen iodine, I am
blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few days at 50% off. Then
after that, it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of it or until
we have to have a new formulation. Get your X2 right now as well as M4slife.com, M4store.com
or AAA-253-3139. Thank you all for helping fund the Second American Global Revolution.
Again, M4slife.com, M4store.com is changing history. This model could defeat the major
global corporations that only fund globalism and fake neocon garbage, the left in that
whole system. All of the universities are funded by the richest, most powerful corporations
in the world. What you see at the universities, the anti-American, anti-capitalism, anti-free
market, anti-family, pro-radical Islamic, pro-pedophile garbage, the anti-mother, anti-father agenda,
the whole anti-human agenda is globalist run to stun humanity, to turn off our self-defense
mechanisms, to turn off our survival mechanism and put us into a catatonic state of globalist
control. The fact that you are out there financing us, the fact that you're out there supporting
us, the fact that you're out there buying the products, the fact that you are out there
taking action and praying for us and spreading the links, the articles is changing the world
that you're seeing it happen and I salute you and thank you, but we have more than 20
items at 50% off at M4store.com and I am extending the Memorial Day special that's become the
beginning of summer, super special until, I think until summer actually began. What
is that like? The 26th or so, but here's the key. A lot of these items are set to sell
out, so I will keep some of the items up there at 50% off that we've got plenty of in stock
but stuff that's about to sell out or that's getting low. Like the X2, like the Brain Force,
like the Alpha Power, things like that are only going to be for a few more days. We've
got plenty of new Red Pill Plus. Now with energy, it's amazing. M4store.com, M4slife.com
or triple-A253-3139, so please take advantage of that. Now, bring an old employer in here
for this segment, the next, and then that little segment after that before his next
guest comes on. Owen, I cannot stress enough how Howard Kaplan from Pennsylvania who's about
to join you, how he's changed the world, it no doubt pushed it over the top one in the
election that hundreds and hundreds of people during live events pointed out that Bill Clinton
has settled rape cases and that Hillary protected pedophiles. Folks doing that changed the world.
They were trying to project lies on the Trump. We took back the narrative with the truth.
Well, I've said that if folks go out to Bill Clinton's book signings and Comey signings
and Hillary's events and all of them, like he's coming to do this Sunday in Austin,
oh, you're going to be there outside, but folks that get tickets that go in, the courage
of standing in that hostile crowd and saying, Jeffrey Epstein, what you did, the Leader
Express, convicted pedophiles, all of this is so powerful and what this gentleman has
done, I feel in my gut is the next catalyst for others to do, just like that first young
man that jumped over the fence, and I'm not saying you should do that, but he jumped up
to the fence while during Fox being live on the street about six months before the election
with then weekend show with now weeknight host and getting up there with Tucker Carlson
and saying, Bill Clinton's a ripist with that T-shirt on. That began the Domino's following
and I believe that Howard has begun the Domino's following. So here's a few minutes of him
just a few nights ago, and we need to have this video go mega viral confronting Bill
Clinton with facts and the hissing crowd and the hissing security people saying he's
a liar when all of it is 100% true. Here it is.
Why didn't you fly on Jeffrey Epstein's Lolita Express 26 times? 26 times, Bill. What were
you doing on Jeffrey Epstein's plane? He knows James Patterson knows who Jeffrey Epstein
is. Child sex trafficker, you flew on 26 times. What do you got nothing to say? You know
he did it. James, tell him who it is. This isn't him. He's not, it's not no concession.
Not for questions. Okay. You wrote a book on Jeff 26 times, Bill. You didn't investigate
it. Look it up. Jeffrey Epstein. Who cares? Yeah. Yeah. We know, Bill. We know, Bill.
Come on. Yeah, have a good time, folks. Jeffrey Epstein.
Okay. So again, we're gonna play more of the clip coming up, but this is how you do it.
This is how you force the issue out. This is how you reach out to people. This is how
you change the world. So Howard, we salute you. We commend you. I'm gonna let you take
over here with Owen, but you're a hero, my friend. I mean, what it takes to do that,
I've done similar things myself. And when you go into a nest of these people, I mean,
quite a few of them even know the agenda and are on board whether it's true or evil. So
we commend you for going into that den of evil. Thank you very much, Alex. Again, why did
you decide to do this? What was in your heart? I mean, I'm gonna describe what it was like
to be there in front of that creature. I've done similar events with Hillary and Joe
Biden. So, you know, when I saw that Bill was coming around, it was just another opportunity.
I live in Philadelphia, so there's a lot of events that come to Philadelphia. I can get
to D.C. I can get to New York. And it just seemed like the thing to do.
Well, the House of Clinton is key to the whole blackmailing operation. It's going down right
now. The fact that we can accelerate the complete collapse, the better for the world, the better
for the country. Again, this is a domino effect of your new listener. The whole globalist
system uses pedophilia and sex crimes as control. That's all coming out now. Trump's
rolling that up. So, I'm gonna turn things over to you, my friend, and to Owen. Just
an amazing job because, again, if you challenge others to go out and do what you've done,
if people do this in Austin, out on the street, if we take full control of the narrative from
these monsters that want to destroy our families and who are so brazen, he'll go down. He's
far worse than Bill Cosby, far worse than Harvey Weinstein. And I risked my life point
blank to get in their face. That's why they're coming after me right now. And I'm glad to
do it for the children. I'm not a hero. I'm just a survival instinct. But you're a hero
as well. And we are together here, my friend, in this fight. So, Howard, please continue
and God bless both of you and God bless the entire crew.
Thank you very much, Alex.
All right. So, we're actually about to go to a break here. So, we'll get more into this
with Howard on the other side. But here's why this is so key. If Hillary Clinton can
go to a rally in front of 500 people and have nobody stand up, she thinks humans are a joke.
She thinks she can step on your face. If Bill Clinton can go to a book tour and have thousands
of people attend and nobody stand up for him, the criminal that he is, they think humans
are a joke. They think America is a joke. So, that's why standing up to these people
and letting them know we're not taking it anymore. You're not getting away with this
anymore. That is the key to this. Resistance is victory.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Okay, thank you.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power
your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically
studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top
shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins. There's no better time to
try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out
on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive
Pack today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it
in Fuller's life. It'd take hours. Michael's DX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the handita.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone
that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. And our latest product that
goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste is super
blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement
with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so essential to spread
the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when InfoWars
and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the
page on my dial-up internet. And I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books
and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests. And I've been using your product since
the first iteration of survival shield. And since then, I'm on the X2, the super male
vitality, the caveman, the real red pill, micro ZX body. It's all amazing. Thank you, brother.
Yeah. And I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit. And it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God. And I wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew, and the listeners out there, 17,
176, world one. Western Europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship
is descending down over the UK. They're set to pass rules, not a law, that if you criticize
Islam or gays, you'll get six months in prison. We know we're only about a year or two behind
what's happening in the UK. Seeing an end and many others are calling for info wars to be shut
down, taken off the web. Slate magazine has a professor and others saying go beyond censorship,
brainwash young people against info wars, psychologically inoculate them with lies
so they don't actually hear what we have to say. We are the most hated news source in the world
by globalist. It is so critical that you go to info wars.com, slash newsletter and sign up for
the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you. And so the sensors can bully their way in
and block us being able to engage in free, open dialogue as a society that is critical
to this fight. We will prevail if you take action and I know you will.
Let me explain the significance of doing what Howard Kaplan did at the Bill Clinton book tour,
what we're doing this Sunday at 6pm central outside of Bass Concert Hall here for Bill
Clinton's book tour in Austin, Texas. What many of this audience did during the presidential election
cycle going to Hillary Clinton events and shouting Bill Clinton is rapist.
Do you want to know where people like Hillary Clinton derive
much of their arrogance and hubris that you can see in that face right there?
It's because they can get away with massive crimes from what they did to Haiti to petty
crimes like stealing silver, silverware and furniture from the White House on their departure
from the White House. And then they can go in front of a crowd of people and give a speech
and have everyone in that crowd totally brainwashed, totally dilapidated and won't stand up to them.
That's where they get their hubris. It's like a bully. A bully in school who goes around bullying
everybody and nobody stands up to him just going to keep bullying people, going to walk around the
cafeteria picking on people like they own the place. But as soon as that one individual stands up,
all of a sudden another individual stands up, all of a sudden another individual stands up,
all of a sudden the whole school stands up and that bully is no more. So that's why this is so key.
Now, Howard Kaplan, the video has gone viral, confronts Bill Clinton at his book signing event.
Now, what you saw Howard do, Howard, can you imagine though, just with how powerful your video
is, can you imagine if there were six or seven other people in that audience and then after you
stood up and said it, someone else stood up and said it and then a third person stood up and said
it? I mean, that's game changing. That's world changing. That's my dream, Owen, to have 10,
20, 30 people escort me out and then the next one gets up and the next one gets up and people
can do this, man. It's not that difficult. And how do we get people to understand what this is
really about? This isn't about Howard Kaplan and going and celebrating and patting himself on the
back because he got a viral video. This is about Howard Kaplan standing up for truth and showing
other Americans that they can do the same thing. That's what this is about. And like you said,
if Howard Kaplan does it, okay, it gets a viral video, maybe it inspires others. If six, seven
people in that audience do it, all of a sudden you just change the narrative of the event.
You just changed the game of Bill Clinton's event. Now all of a sudden it became a Me Too
protest. Now all of a sudden the story is seven people protest Bill Clinton. Then at the next
event, there's 10. Then at the next event, there's 20. And that's, I think, the snowball you're
trying to get rolling. Absolutely. Absolutely. This has nothing to do with me. It's about
confronting these people and letting them know that the game is over. And particularly when it
comes to Epstein, you know, the, the, you know, today's show wants to bring up Monica Lewinsky
and people think that was a tough question. That wasn't a tough question. Why, why you flew on Jeffrey
Epstein's airplane 26 times ditching Secret Service. That's a tough question because he has no answer.
And of course he doesn't. And all they do is they just escort you out of the building.
But I'm just curious because when I watched that at the end of that video, there were people saying,
oh, you're insane. You're insane. My response is, no, he's the only sane one in the crowd.
He is the only sane one there. He's the only one that still has a brain. He's the only one that
still has a memory. He's the only one that still has courage. And I just wonder, was there anyone
there in that crowd that even asked you about what you were doing? Was there anyone that was
curious about what you were talking about? Or did they all just go right into the brainwash state
of mind and say, oh, he's insane. Oh, how rude. Well, well, the crowd shouts you down and that's
to be expected. The guy who called me insane was actually Secret Service. He was younger.
But, you know, there were, I guess I had contact with about three or four Secret Service and they
were, they were all very respectful of the guy, the gentleman who escorted me out. He was Secret
Service. He, you know, I was really surprised because I didn't realize it until afterward.
He said, sir, please sit down. And I just expected automatically to get kicked out. I didn't even
realize I had the opportunity to sit back down until like after the fact. But, you know,
no nobody in there was going to get up and support me, even if they, but I kind of got the feeling
that, you know, people were like, what is he talking about? So hopefully, you know, I'm not
doing it for the crowd, you know, but hopefully somebody would go back and, you know, look up,
you know, Jeffrey Epstein, because they probably don't even know about it.
No, that's actually interesting. I noticed how he said, please sit down. And I wasn't sure if,
if he, if he forced you to get out or what happened there. So I'm glad that you kind of
clarified that. But they probably would, they may have kicked you out eventually.
But the Secret Service, I mean, I would imagine I would have gotten up again. I would have gotten
up again. So they would have kicked me out. Sure. Right. Now, and I would imagine, I mean, we've had,
you know, experiences with Secret Service. Obviously, everybody within Secret Service
is their own individual outside of whatever their work is. But, you know, we've had Secret Service
that, I mean, they, they know what's going on. You know, I mean, they know what's going on.
They do their research. They know what their job is and who they're protecting.
And they obviously do it well, no matter who the, who the protector or who they're supposed to protect.
But it's interesting to me how you're saying the one guy though was young saying that you were insane.
Yeah. He was a younger Secret Service agent. I would imagine he may end up having a conversation
with some of the elder statesmen there of the Secret Service and they might say,
hey, you know, that guy's not as insane as you think, dude.
Right. Well, I would, I would hope so. You know, one thing I found very interesting when I went
in, because I've seen Bill Clinton confronted, you know, several times and, and he always comes
back at people. One years ago, somebody confronted him about being a Bohemian Grove and Bill got
all snarky on stage. So I was expecting Bill to get up and say something, you know, to me.
And what, what he did, he, he leaned over and he was whispering to James Patterson and James,
you can't hear it in the video, but James Patterson actually responded because James Patterson
wrote a book about Epstein a couple of years ago that he co-authored a book and he, James Patterson
said something about how it's been investigated and there was nothing there. So James Patterson
knows he was on the plane, but he says nothing inappropriate happened and which is, you know,
26 times. I mean, it's, it's absurd. Well, how does he, what does that mean? How does he know
nothing inappropriate? He wasn't on the plane. Exactly. He doesn't, he doesn't know. He doesn't
know. That's the thing. And he's saying it like it's some kind of fact, like he was there.
It is a good point you make. Usually Bill Clinton responds to this. I mean, we saw it multiple
times during the presidential campaigning. He saw it multiple times after he will respond. He
actually will respond to the audience. Even, even when he does some of these interviews, I mean,
I even gave him credit for standing up for himself. I'm not saying I agreed with him.
I even gave him credit in the one interview, I think with CBS Boston, where he's getting
called out for the me too stuff. He even stood up for himself there. He even kind of stood up and
said, you know, screw you basically. So it is amazing. It seems like this is the first time
where Bill has ever kind of been crippled, if you will, by, for thought or response,
bringing up the Epstein deal. I think that really shows you that's his Achilles heel.
Yeah. Absolutely. And then having James Patterson speak for him, I mean, I was, I was, I was
definitely, definitely surprised. I was waiting, I was waiting for him to come, to come back at me.
And it just never happened.
Well, and you just got to wonder what James Patterson's motivation in this whole deal is.
You know, is he trying to sell books? Is he friends with Bill? I don't know the nature of his
Jeffrey Epstein book or, or why he wrote that. But now all of a sudden, you know, it's like
Patterson, do you realize what you're even standing up for here? I mean, like you said,
you have to assume the guy written a book on Epstein, he has to know about the low leader
express. He has to know about Bill Clinton ditching secret service to get on that plane 26 times on
record. I mean, right. And if he knows that, well, then why is he up there acting like you're crazy
for even bringing it up? I couldn't agree more. And I didn't find out, you know, you know, in this
whole thing, James Patterson to me was just going to be, you know, an innocent bystander and all
this. And a few days before the event, I was, I was looking up James Patterson lived like a
mile from Jeffrey Epstein in Palm Beach. So he became very interested in the case. And he wrote
the book. I'm like, wow, there's a James Patterson connection here. I mean, that just, you know,
that just changed the game for me. And, uh, you know, so, you know, it changed what I was going
to do when I was going to talk to James Patterson about it also. I mean, it's come on, but that
does kind of give the perfect opportunity to bring up the Epstein Island because Patterson's
covered it. Clinton's, you know, flown on the plane. So it is a good opportunity. Well, Howard
Kaplan, thank you so much for joining us. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how you change the world.
One act of defiance at a time, one act of resistance at a time. And if the next time
Bill Clinton has one of these and 10 people stand up, that changes the world right there, folks.
That is history. That is what we're doing here. Thank you so much, Howard Kaplan, for joining
us at PG Howie 2 on Twitter, at PG Howie 2 on Twitter. That is before they probably want to
block him there. So follow him before he gets blocked. You deserve a deep restful sleep with
knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high quality, natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around
the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to
keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean,
I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at
InfoWarsStore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best
fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You
cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well. InfoWarsLife.com or AAA2533139. And
your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Okay, I want to get to this clip of Dick Painter or Richard Painter last night on Tucker Carlson.
Now look, I just have to say, Eric Swalwell, Adam Schiff and now Richard Painter,
they're all running for Congress, obviously Schiff and Swalwell are already in. But the absolute
lunacy of these people, I wouldn't care if it wasn't for the fact they're in our government
and running for government. Look at how dumb. I'm serious, folks. Look at how straight up
dumb Richard Painter is running as a Democrat. I think it's in Minnesota for Senate now.
Now look at what he did on Tucker Carlson last night. This has to be perhaps the dumbest man to
ever run for government. Listen to this. We know that an FBI and CIA informant on the government
payroll, making quite a bit of money from the government, made contact with at least three
members of the Trump campaign during the campaign, gathered information from them surreptitiously
and passed it back to the Obama administration. Now, you can argue that was justified and I'm
open-minded, but that's spying. Tell me why it's not spying. The Speaker of the House of Representatives
has already talked about this. Paul Ryan, Representative Gowdy, Richard Burr over in the
United States Senate Intelligence Committee, and there is a consensus on Republicans and Democrats
because they have seen the relevant information, including a lot of them have seen the classified
information, which I have not seen, and neither has Fox News seen the classified information.
And I don't know if this is the news channel or the fiction channel, but we need to focus on
that. I pause it right there. Now, he actually claims, or I'm sorry, the Democrats actually
claim to have seen that information, but regardless, I want to explain some of you.
This is not satire. This guy's serious. This is Richard Painter, a candidate for Senate.
Richard Painter, the crew points out he talks like the guy, the cockroach guy in Men in Black.
How is this guy going to win a seat? That's what I'm saying. It's like, how does somebody vote for
Eric Swalwell? How does somebody vote for Adam Schiff? How does somebody vote for Nancy Pelosi?
We got another video of Nancy Pelosi. I mean, I almost feel bad. I don't even want to cover
the videos anymore. Every other speech she gives, she's like having a seizure mid-speech. She's about
to win again. So guys, just fast forward in that video to more of Richard Dick Painter here. Just
listen to this guy. This is the type of people we have running for our government. This is so
embarrassing. This is so pathetic. Let's go back. Hold on. So if you would, please stop with the
invective and explain to me again slowly why, given the fact set that I just presented to you,
and I think we can agree that that's true, that that's not spying. No, I don't think we can.
Under what circumstances would that not be spying? Well, the Speaker of the United States House of
Representatives has looked at the facts and Richard Burr over in the Senate in intelligence
parroting the same thing, including the classified information, which I have not seen. So what do
you think? Hold on. Okay. You've already said that. Hold on. I understand you're repeating yourself
and you've just confirmed that whatever Republican leaders say you believe is a little odd you're
running as a Democrat in another conversation. But suggest to me what they might know. Hold on.
Suggest to me what they might know. Just speculate if you would. Just go crazy. All right. That's
Richard Painter. You've seen the ignorance there. This guy's pathetic. This guy's pathetic. People
will vote for that man. Now let's go to Nancy Pelosi, guys. Let's go to clip eight. Listen to Nancy Pelosi.
The president pulled his punch on low prescription drug prices. The president was going to reduce the
debt. The Republicans are going to reduce the deficit and reduce the national debt and good
paying jobs in America's communities. This morning, the Republicans are meeting on immigration.
Lord knows what will come out with that. Well, hopefully the Lord knows. We've been praying
very hard on it to also point out the intensity factor that is out there where Democrats are
maybe 15 points, something like 63. No. 47 is it? I've had concerns about China in three areas.
Certainly the disparity. All right, Nancy. So you got Nancy Pelosi, Diane Feinstein, Adam Schiff,
Eric Swalwell, Richard Painter. I mean, these are the Democrats, folks. These are the dumbest,
most pathetic people in this country, and they represent the Democrat party, and people will
vote for them. Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But
sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why info wars life has created a powerful new
addition to the super blue line. Super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce,
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles. Immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen, or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for
daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing
formula. Just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with
powerful yet simple ingredients. Immune gargle features silver sole nano silver for a powerful
cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle. Staying toxin free is easy and
affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com
You found it, the tip of the spear. It is the Alex Jones show with Owen Troyer.
All right, Austin Fletcher of Fleckis talks is about to be joining us.
Every video the guy puts out is just gold. And the most recent video,
he goes out on the streets and he talks to people about MS 13. Boy, it's amazing what you can get
liberals to say if you just bring up virtue signaling. Check out Austin Fleckis, Fleckis
talks most recent video. Did you hear him call MS 13 animals? Yes, I did. What did you think about
that? I think he's a pig. He's just an animal. I mean, you know, you smell your own, I guess.
Maybe not all people in that group are animals. No, they're not animals at all. They're human
being just like all of us. I think he's a pig. He's just using that as an excuse to,
I don't know, justify his being such a racist. And then this week, Trump made the comment about MS
13 being animals. You hear about that? It's so painful. What do you think about that?
I think he's criticizing his own American people. What can you say about this guy? He's the animal.
Would you agree that not all MS 13 members are animals? Absolutely. Cool. And then,
it kind of, yeah, exactly. It's just like a negative, always negative in the news, always
negative in the news. The guys that are running around gang banging and killing people, they're
animals. You know, but the rest of the gang, it's a big gang, you know? Absolutely.
All right. I'll tell you, Austin, you know, it is funny, like it's funny and we laugh at this
stuff. We laugh at Richard Painter, who goes on tire. Paul Ryan of the Republican Party,
well, you know, tell us his community, you know, Aaron Burr, I got into a duel in 1806.
Gold tie. Vote for me. And it's funny. And these people are pathetic. We laugh at Nancy Pelosi.
She can't even do simple math. But these are, we, I mean, it's like, but at some gut level,
when I face the reality that these people are real, that we have to actually vote against these
people, stop these people from getting power. I mean, it's like, I can't decide whether I should
laugh at this or it's like a punch to my gut. Yeah, I feel the same way. And I'm, I feel like
it's a punch to the gut a lot of times. And people with that last video, a lot of them say,
oh, you probably interviewed a ton of people and picks the five people that actually supported MS
13. And Owen, I swear to you, those are the five people I interviewed. Those were the five reactions.
I went five for five. Every single person I asked MS 13, are they animals? Every single person I
asked in West Hollywood said no. So it's scary. We're in a really weird spot right now where
the left, just to spite Trump is doubling down on things that are in no way at all American or
American values. But it goes beyond that. I mean, I understand at this point, why somebody would
go against American values, given all the propaganda, propaganda in the education system, the propaganda
in the media. So at least I can reason with that. I can sit here and I can say, okay, here's how you
landed to that conclusion. I understand it. But here's what I don't understand. You've got this
multiple times, you even see this on mainstream media, where they'll say, or for example, go back,
in fact, just in fact, go back to the first clip of this video, go back, start the video over for
the first guy, listen to what this guy says, just listen to him. Do you hear him call MS 13 animals?
Yes, I judge. Think about that. I think he's a pig. Okay, there you go. Pause it right there.
Pause it right there. Excuse me, that lady. So it's one thing for me to, I understand you,
okay, you hate America, you've learned that, whatever. This woman says Trump is bad for calling MS
13 animals. And then she calls Trump a pig. What is that? That's beyond brainwashing,
that's beyond propaganda. That's like, learn stupidity or like inherent stupidity. I don't
even know how to measure this. Yeah, and I think one of the only reasons the left is able to get
away with these ridiculous stories, these ridiculous claims is because their base audience has such a
short attention span. So they basically engineered like the perfect resistor in a way. It's people
with short attention spans, people that don't actually pay attention to politics. A lot of
times they think they're educated because they went to college and are in debt. And for that reason,
they feel like they're oppressed and they know more than everybody. And a lot of what we're seeing
now I think is going beyond politics. I think it's basically becoming down to good versus evil.
And I think it's coming down to establishment versus anti-establishment. And it's scary to see
the left head in this direction because not too long ago liberals were the ones who were for free
speech, who were against censorship, who wanted to expose government corruption. And now we're
seeing them side with things that I don't think anyone should ever side with. And it's just at a
base level, you know, un-American, anti-American. Well, and they even go do interviews out on the
street where they say they'd rather date an MS-13 gang member than a Trump supporter. And again,
it's just like, again, that I can measure up to, okay, that's the propaganda. That's the fake news.
I can see how they could reach that conclusion. Again, though, it's like, it goes beyond propaganda
and brainwashing to a point where you're so unintellectual and so stupid that you would say
Trump is bad for calling people an animal, he's a pig. I mean, and that's what you deal with out here.
And I don't know what to do. I mean, good and evil, right and wrong. I mean,
I don't even know what to say. How do you possibly? So that's just a vote now in America. And there's
probably millions of people like that woman. That's just a vote now in America. It's like,
we have to realize we're voting against that. I think that you put it rightly. They have created,
they have manufactured with the propaganda and the brainwashing, a perfect ignorant class of,
quote unquote, resistors who think they're fighting the establishment that are actually the front
lines for the establishment and people need to understand these people exist. They're now voter
blocks in these big cities. You have to go out and vote. Those people will control our destiny
if we don't go out and vote. Exactly. And you're absolutely right. It does come down to the vote,
but I think the good news is every time the left takes a stand and supports MS 13 or,
you know, promotes the Me Too movement. Meanwhile, they're all sexual predators in
Hollywood. And every time they take a stand and contradict themselves, I think their audience
shrinks just a little bit. And it's the people in the middle, the rational people, the centrists,
the independence, the maybe even classical liberals who are now looking around and saying,
wait, why is my party defending MS 13? Why are we pretending that Hollywood is in a toxic culture?
And these are the people that are going to start heading to the right, just like we're seeing,
you know, across the board. So while the far left will always be the far left and the protesters
will always be pretty much brainwashed and convinced that Trump is the devil himself,
everyone else in the middle who is somewhat rational will start waking up. And their audience,
I think, is shrinking by the day for that reason. Well, I think you're definitely right. The only
concern I have, and while it's harder to do this on a national level to rig a presidential election,
they tried it. But in these local elections, I mean, these electronic voting machines,
that's their last line of defense. I mean, that's their ace in the hole, man. I mean,
how does Maxine Waters get 10 people to show up at her last campaign event? You can't even make this
up. 10 people show up at Maxine Waters' campaign event just 48 hours before the primary voting,
and then she gets 40,000 people to vote for her? I'm sorry, folks. That doesn't add up.
You don't have to be a kook to do that math. Now, Nancy Pelosi might not be able to do that
math, but I hope you're smarter than Nancy Pelosi. So again, how is it, and we can get more into
this on the other side, 10 people show up to a Maxine Waters' final campaign event 48 hours
before the primary votes, and then 40,000 people show up to vote for her instead of Omar Navarro,
who actually gets crowds, who actually has a following locally and nationally? I mean,
I don't even believe it, but that's what we have going on. So, ladies and gentlemen,
I don't know what the answer is when it comes to making sure that these votes are tallyed properly
other than following the law at which most states have, you have to have a paper ballot.
Now here in Texas, they just totally ignore laws like that. And that's when why David Knight goes
to talk to the commissioner of voting here. He literally runs away and hides in his office
because they won't answer the question as to why they're breaking the law. So we're going to get
more to that on the other side with Austin Fletcher. But in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen,
we've got these super summer sales going on right now at infowarstore.com. And I will just tell you
this, 50% off survival shield X2. I know that you've been hearing it for a while, could be the last
run, but we don't just say that to get you to buy it. I mean, I'm probably going to go stock up on
more of this as well. So we don't, I mean, I'm worried that this could be the last go of this
survival shield X2 as well. So I'm going to stock up, but it's still 50% off, 50% off the real red
pill plus 50% off super male vitality, 50% off brain force plus, you've got 5% off all t-shirts
right now with coupon codes fun five at infowarstore.com alpha power is 50% off super female
vitality is 50% off pollen block is 50% off DNA force 50% off free shipping store wide. It's all
at infowarstore.com. And if you support us, we promise to continue our expansion in the face
of the censorship. Don't go anywhere. Fleckis talks with me on the other side.
Get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com fire your flight water get your bug assault
today bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value
added packaging provides 10 year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully
cooked bacon in America today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use ordered today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat bacon.com
this is Dan pillard you know the irs money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you
i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you to
i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case
call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never been a
better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website danpillard.com
most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s what if i told you
for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract
we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for
it check out all of the success stories at hpextract.com or to order call 866 295 5305 that's
866 295 5305 hpextract.com don't risk it when you can take charge of it
western europe has already banned free speech and an iron curtain of censorship is descending down
over the uk they're set to pass rules not a law that if you criticize islam or gage you'll get six
months in prison we know we're only about a year or two behind what's happening in the uk cnn and
many others are calling for info wars to be shut down taken off the web slate magazine has a professor
and others saying go beyond censorship brainwash young people against info wars psychologically
inoculate them with lies so they don't actually hear what we have to say we are the most hated
news source in the world by globalist it is so critical that you go to info wars dot com
or slash newsletter and sign up for the free newsletter so we can be in contact with you
and so the censors can't bully their way in and block us being able to engage in free open dialogue
as a society that is critical to this fight we will prevail if you take action and i know you will
die nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life
help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic
fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest
food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting edge formula only
brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are
used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested
by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars
life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139 you're listening to the alex jones show
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
well in case you haven't seen enough proof
of the ignorance of the trump detractors and of the radical leftist protesters in the streets
not enough from the swallwells the poloses the painters or all of fleckis talks videos take
a look at this other one where fleckis hits the streets and sees if the people know the difference
between a democrat quote and a trump quote hey guys it's fleckis this week we're at halloween
boulevard walk of fame at donald trump star to play a game with local celebrities it's called trump
or democrats before trump let's see what people think democrats or trump okay democrats or trump
guess who said these quotes all right and spider man he's got it number one we all agree on the
need to better secure the border and to punish employers who choose to hire illegal immigrants
oh that's trump all the way that's actually brock obama 2005 we need to be very careful about
syrian refugee admissions that's trump that's diane feinstein 2015 oh man we need to be very
careful about syrian refugee admissions trump of course diane feinstein 2015
we in congress stand by israel in congress we speak with one voice on the subject of israel
that's trump that's nancy polosi i take the constitution you get the point you can see the
full video on fleckis talks youtube channel again though you know and look i'm not even you know
this is this is actually an easy thing that you can go out and do this video is actually kind of less
i think exposing how ignorant these people are than the other videos where they you know compare
trump to a pig but he's bad for saying ms-13 is animals because this that to me that austin actually
falls on the politicians that lie to these people see again i can reason with that i can understand
how they how they can come to that i can reason and understand how they would reach that conclusion
and think that that's only trump that said that because it's their own party that lies to them
it's the democrats that lie to them it's the democrats that talk out of both sides of their
mouth so i can understand how they could confuse that issue and be deceived in that video but again
though do you think that this even wakes people up to understand how much they've been conned i mean
that's obviously the goal but do you think it works on these people or do they just go right back
to hating trump i think yeah that is definitely the goal whether or not it works kind of comes down
to the echo chambers and what people are actually seeing online i think the echo chambers at this
point have been structured in a way where the conservatives see the conservative stuff and
the liberals see liberal stuff and that just kind of creates an atmosphere where you meet
someone with opposing views it's hard to understand where they come from it's hard to believe how
someone could you know get to the mental place where they love trump or they hate trump depending
on what side you're on so i hope it gets to them like a video like this my goal was to just have
people realize that politics in the most in the most recent election in the past year or actually
two years at this point is completely changing it used to be something different it used to be
something people could agree to disagree on but now politics is heading in direction where you're
either you know for america or against america and i hope with this video people see hey brock
obama made some comments a few years ago that would be deemed racist or insensitive today or
hey nancy polosi was you know used to be an advocate for um stronger immigration i'm a
stronger immigration reform and um you know securing the border at certain points and when
they hear these things i just hope that they realize that politics now has become so obsessed
with trump that they would rather take on anti-american values and anti-american policies just to
spite the guy so i just want to expose that that and to the people i just want people to realize
that they've hated the man so much that they're ignoring what this country is all about and what
this country could be well and i look at these people and especially in that last video they
don't really seem politically charged i mean you're talking to the guys out there dressed like
superheroes right they're doing their whole street thing they don't really seem politically charged
they're not really coming into this like angry at trump or fired up about their politics right
and you can tell that they're just general people and they may not be politically inclined any
which way but they do absorb you know the culture they do absorb the mainstream message they do get
the trickle down propaganda whether or not they intentionally ingested or not and you can kind
of tell though that they just go with it there is no foundation for their beliefs it's just what
they've been taught what they've learned via the trickle down propaganda and this is why it's dangerous
for both sides really it's dangerous for america because these people vote these weak minded people
vote that fall for propaganda and fall for lies go out and vote with an absent mind and that's the
democrat voter base just look at the videos you do you prove that but it's also dangerous for
the democrats because if and i don't know what it is but if that zeitgeist breaks for them
if that skeleton key to their mind opens it finally their game is over because somebody
like that obviously weak minded can be easily swayed whether or not it whether or not they
absorb it or not is the different issue that i guess is the question because they're obviously
weak minded they can obviously swayed but do they still have the ability to think for themselves
do they still still have the ability to look deeper with critical thinking and say oh wow
i was deceived by this propaganda i need to go back and look so it's kind of dangerous on both
ends it's dangerous for america that you have these weak minded uninformed voters that are the
democrat voter base but it's also dangerous for the democrats because they're so weak minded and
fragile they really could be flipped like that if whatever the proper formula is given to them i
truly believe yeah i totally agree with you i think the far left and the radicals and the antithas
of the world um they'll always be far left and they'll never come around but i think the most
valuable people in that group in the left leaning group are the people in the middle who just don't
follow politics and that's the quote they use oh i don't follow politics and that used to be me for
a while too in college i thought obama was great because he was hope and changed first black president
united the country and i thought wow that's who we should elect and i really didn't do any research
i didn't actually look into it i read headlines i was on twitter and i kind of just got the feel
for politics and i think the feel for politics is an outdated way to do it and it's a harmful way to
do american politics and i think those are the people that are waking up so a lot of the people
on the conservative side especially were left leaning at one point a lot of people that are my age
maybe you could attest to this too maybe years back you thought you were a liberal only because
you didn't do the full deep dive but once you actually looked into the things and the policies
and the politicians you start leaning conservative and i think most conservatives come from a
liberal place at some point in their life and i think most liberals or most leftists were liberals
and leftists their entire lives yeah i mean i don't know if i would ever put necessarily a liberal
identity on it but i think it's the same thing as you you know what they what the old saying goes
if you're not a liberal by 20 you don't have a heart if you're not a conservative by 30 you
don't have a brain i think it goes to what you're saying like the same thing actually i mean when
i was in college it's the same thing i was liberal on social issues like okay you know i don't care
what people do sexually uh i blame the guns i thought the guns were the problem because that's
what the propaganda you know was put in front of me and then you got to do the research you
understand it better but even then i remember going around just because i was such a cynic and i've
always liked to be devil's advocate i remember going around university Missouri 2008 and and
i even felt probably on the liberal perspective but i remember going around not really falling
for obama not really believing in it because i hated politicians and i would just ask people i
would say because they all loved obama i would say would you vote for a prisoner of war instead
of obama and they all said yes and i go really cuz mccain's a prisoner of war and they're like oh
really i didn't even know that so it just shows how ignorant these people are austin fletcher thank
you so much for joining us fleckus talks is the youtube channel do you have the spoon mic
anywhere handy can we get a can we get a cameo from the spoon mic yeah we got five seconds come on
we want the spoon mic show us the spoon mic three two there the spoon mic lives it's a very confusing
time in the financial markets and nobody knows that better than financial markets analyst doug kasey
kasey research wants to send you a free copy of doug's controversial new book about the stock
market our economy and american politics warning this book is not politically correct kasey is
known for his outspoken and brutally honest views he once called global warming a political scam
he's made millions betting on investments seen as too controversial by the mainstream in this new
book kasey reveals shocking predictions about hot issues like immigration russia and the next
stock super boom doug kasey is an investing legend find out where he's looking for gains in spaces
like tech even cryptocurrencies but watch out this book is simply too controversial for bookstores
go to totally incorrect offer dot com to get your free copy so you can see for yourself shipping and
handling charges apply but be warned this material may be taken down at any time just go to totally
incorrect offer dot com that's w w w dot totally incorrect offer dot com totally incorrect offer
dot com the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the
most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one
of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties
our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric
with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full
body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three
three one three nine as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your
body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients in stress you may not
be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum
standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and
affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify
the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's
made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that
i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers
together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield and info wars
life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show and now the tip of the spear leading the fight
to take back the nation it's oh and shawyer you're listening to the alex jones show leo zagami is
about to join me leo zagami dot com is where you can find all of his reports and stories and before
i get to leo we're going to talk about the nationalist uprising in italy talk about the
bill de berg group and what they're meeting on right now but before i get to leo who's an expert
on those two things i just have to get this off my chest because it's really bothering me
and it all comes back to the same issue i was talking about from unfortunately and this is just
what we this is the the common nomenclature the left versus the right where just look at the
blatant double standards that the left has right now but it's not even a double standard this is like
i don't even know how to this is beyond mental illness this is like
beyond brainwashing it's like almost like a controlled mind slave seriously that's how it
looks like that is the only thing i can think of to describe this where anybody could consider this
path of thinking to be rational and logical the only way is if you are a mind slave think about
this so you've got the spying on the trump campaign story right okay they say they spied on the trump
campaign they didn't they did they didn't they did okay they did but we won't call it spying
well whatever they justify it and they say we were spying on trump for his protection he should
be thanking the fbi but if that was the case why didn't they spy on hillary clinton who had the
open servers illegal servers with classified information on it but then more importantly
and this when it comes to the mind slave aspect how then are you going to say that you spied on
trump for his protection but he's the target and he's the enemy think about that how do you hold
those two thoughts in your mind and consider it to be rational it's impossible if trump is the bad
guy and the target of the investigation which is what you claim then why are you saying you're
there to protect him if you're investigating a bank robber okay and you're spying on the bank robber
and they say look you illegally spied on the bank robber you don't say i was spying on the bank
robber for his protection no that's insane this is what they're saying these are mind slaves and
again they say trump was attempting to get intelligence from russia well or or he was
in communication with putin to get intelligence on hillary from russia well if that's the case
why are all these random meetings being scheduled with don jr and avonka trump and russian lawyers
why wouldn't trump just be speaking to putin directly so again there's no rationale there
but think about this they say trump is bad for wanting to get intelligence from russia which
he never did and they say that eric swalwell and the rest of the democrats say trump needs to be
turned into the fbi for trying to get information from russia but wait a second again you take a
step back hillary clinton the democrat party and the mainstream media literally all took information
from russia in the face of the russian dossier do you see the madness here there's the tweet
if you're in a campaign for federal office and a foreign agent offers you dirt on your opponent
you should tell the fbi well what if you're in a campaign for federal office and you pay a foreign
agent for information on your opponent then what that's what hillary clinton did so this this this
russian spygate trump madness has really reached levels beyond proportion anyone who still believes
this stuff i now consider a mined slave no longer brainwashed no longer ignorant literal
mined slaves now that i have that off my chest let's bring in leo zigami now leo feel free to
comment on what i just laid out or you have a story right now at leo zigami dot com builder
burgers arrive in italy to take orders from the vatican they sent the cardinal down there to have
a secret meeting with the builder burgers what do you think was discussed at that meeting what do
you think is on the vatican's mind right now okay um leo um i'm not sure what's going on here
we're not hearing leo zigami guys so okay there we go leo all right leo what do you think is going
on what is the vatican trying to get out to the builder burgers right now well the vatican has a
lot to explain on their presence there that's why mario borgetzio from the northern league who is
their friend of mine actually have his card here wrote just a letter to the pope he's a european
parliament member of the northern league and he is asking the pope to basically explain why his
secretary of state is number two in command is with these people because there is no reason why
secretary of state of the vatican should be amongst all these powerful elitarians if not to support
them in reality uh paroline is bringing a very strong message of support from the pope
which is against populism is against what they define as fake news which in reality is real news
and all this is happening now silenced by the majority of the italian media because we had a
couple of articles when the builder burgers arrived on the 6th of june but after that all the main
media tv radio newspapers have been completely silent about this meeting apart from the locals
from turing who of course were shocked in knowing that they had a meeting of the builder burgers in
front of their house and even the people who are from the five star movement in power in the city of
turing because the city of turing has a mayor from the five star movement which is one of the two
populist organization which has helped this populist uprising in italy they're asking questions
because there is not been many answers apart from the fact that of course there is a massive
security operation in place and even salvini the minister of interior of the northern league has
not yet talked about it so i i called my friends from the northern league at their headquarters
earlier on this afternoon to know what was happening and they said that they are waiting
for salvini studying very well the situation because he wants to make a public announcement
about it in the meantime though manio borgetzio who is a well-known politician from the northern
league has already made his his idea known that basically the pope shouldn't participate to this
kind of meeting and he should explain to his believers to his followers why he he has sent
parolee in there but we know why he sent the parolee in there he sent parolee in there to
cosplay against donald j trump before the midterms elections and of course what is happening also at
the g7 is very important also here in italy because our new prime minister konte has immediately
supported with the tweet donald j trump and his open invitation for russia to rejoin the group
and become again the g8 so josep konte is amongst the the only probably the only one
apart from trump who supports this idea well actually i just want to say that prime minister
abe from japan has also has also come out and said that too so you've got italy japan the united
states all calling for russia to be back into the summit and i'm just curious though because
and leo he knows what he's talking about with this stuff and and sometimes for new audience members
you know this may seem a little bit out there but this is the reality of the situation and i just
want to take it to another level here leo the secret societies have different plantations
or means to control the world population politics has been one of those means they're losing politics
right now they're losing their ability to control the politics so i'm curious because i kind of think
there might be something else to this visit to the bill de berg group from the vatican i think that
they may be realizing that they cannot revive their political stranglehold on the world and so
now they're trying to figure out how they can rearmament their control over history and the
secret history of humanity and the secret history that the vatican knows about what are your thoughts
on the potential of the vatican sending this representation to the bill de berg group to
see how they can maintain their control on the secret human history just in 30 seconds we'll
get more into this on the other side one of the devices used to keep the control that is being
discussed right now the bill de berg is quantum computers they will be used to control everybody
through 5g so 5g and quantum computers are in discussion at the moment at the bill de berg meeting
okay we're going to get into that and more on the other side but that is key with the ai being
rolled out right now the 5g being rolled out right now they of course trying to create the one world
government which would be all controlled by the ai 5g so that's on the other side that's what the
bill de berg group wants sovereign countries and sovereign citizens are standing up though
this is the last week to get free shipping on all of our bestselling items at info wars store
dot com we also have some of the biggest sales in our history on super high quality supplements
and other products at info wars store dot com as well as info wars life dot com body's ultimate
turmeric formula has the strongest curcumin in level of any other brand you're going to find out
there at 95 percent leading competitors have a curcumin level of three percent from there we've
got dozens and dozens and dozens of other game changing products that you and your family will
absolutely love and it will help support the broadcast it is critical that you go to info
wars store dot com and look at some of those items for yourself whether it's water filtration
air filtration non-gmo heirloom seeds x2 it's all there at info wars store dot com or info wars
life dot com living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can
be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need
to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid
rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of
heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity
filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored
to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the pH of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better
way to power your body fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins
and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the
fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and
support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today info wars life and info wars
life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type
of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by
extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity
and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an
extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin
d3 the research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life
dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d
supports our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting visit info wars
dot com today or call 888-253-3139 you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
and now your host owin treuer
welcome back to the alex jones show owin treuer here filling in for alex now we've got breaking news
coming down the pipeline right now we're about to be joined by alex jones of course the backdrop
for all of this is the russian collusion investigation falling apart trump standing
up for america at the g7 and then italy and japan joining him and his call for russia to join back
into the g7 you've got breaking news with the bill de berg group but we've got news coming from alex
jones right now let's go out to alex on the phone lines alex jones what is breaking all right i'm
going to take over right here i'm going to try to be as calm as i can as i've got four pages of
notes so i'm here ladies and gentlemen covering undoubtedly some of the most dangerous information
i've ever covered on air there's a reason they want to shut down info wars and it's because
they know that we're able to put out countervailing narratives to what they officially said anthony
bordain tony bordain is one of the most popular tv hosts in the world he's the only successful
thing on cnn he dominated netflix he has a little nine-year-old daughter he just got remarried
and then he dies in a crappy hotel room in paris and cnn's brian stelter is the first to tell us
that he died of suicide hanging himself now i knew he'd been critical of hillary
said that uh you know that that she shouldn't have basically defended weinstein
said it was shameful i knew he talked about joked about feeding trump himlock
and i thought you know a lot of these rich powerful hollywood folks from a suicide maybe he
did commit suicide but i said the fact that he had a lot of powerful enemies he should at least be
investigating i said that in a tweet i got a call from my source who is even willing for me to now
say who he is but he was very emotional and he'd already let me in on this a few months ago and
he's actually already talked about this on air but i'm just not going to do that at this point
i'm going to shoot an hd report as soon as i'm done here and i'm going to then reach out to some
other people but here's the bottom line i was told several months ago that a bunch of other big
people are going to start going public and then of course you saw kanya and then a few weeks ago
we said that even more big cultural icons some of the biggest ones in media some of the biggest
people in culture were going to be going public and so this morning when i woke up and i had seen
that tony bordain had committed suicide supposedly i went what is it about that what was it in the
news what so i was sitting there search engineering for like an hour well what was it why was it
about the bordain and then all of a sudden the producer calls me about an hour ago and said
right i forgot off air with you guys and said you have got to call you this source he's really upset
right now and i went oh my gosh he's talked about it on air ladies and gentlemen
this bordain was a powerful cultural figure had more dain had learned about the big awakening
that was happening and he had met with elon musk who's already very good friends with
us in marocco in marrakesh at a big solar farm experimental farm and i'll just leave it at that
and they had taped an 11 and a half minute episode of the upcoming tv series that he was
wrapping up in paris this is two months ago nobody knows this and i'm laying these facts
as people understand he was in marocco on a big vista at a wind farm i'm gonna leave it at that
i've talked to folks that were there i've been authorized to tell you more maybe i just should
but i'm gonna stop right there for now and musk and them had a had a cognet west of it
and bordain was planning to basically do a cognet west but just about the whole global
awakening everything that was about to happen and it's believed that this is a message directly
to elon musk who's been coming out talking about the mainstream media the globalist
how they're planning an ai a technocracy takeover and so i can't tell you without getting
into too much specifics but i've specifically been on the phone with spacex and individuals
at the center of the musk operation um in the last hour so i'm authorized to say that at this point
and i told folks i said we have to go public a part of this we're all in danger and there's a
lot of stuff behind the scenes some sabotage and stuff going on as well that we've become aware of
even inside info wars right now they're making big moves right now ladies and gentlemen and i want
everybody to understand that this is real this is for all the marbles and um it is just unbelievable
i mean i've got like five six pages and notes here it is also believed that just like with
stanley cubrick dying i know his daughter well his protege right before they were going to have
the fungal cut of i's why shut they cut 24 minutes out it's the same thing here uh the cnn and then
the parent company that sold it to him his company they're now looking for pressure
from the 0.0 company to not release the new series but to make it a retrospective
of looking back on bordain also they do not have to release not just this episode but once he decided
to do this with elon musk this was two months ago they shot dozens and dozens of other segments
that he then began working in the whole awakening around the world and bordain had decided to go
the kanye west route and that is 100 from people there with him meeting with him
um elon musk hold on yards elon musk is in complete danger right now again if he hangs
himself it gets murdered ladies and gentlemen part of his jet crashes it's murder um everybody can
feel the the the energy of awakening uh people are pulling out of globalism everywhere the
boulder burglars meeting in italy right now the pope has sent his emissaries this is so incredible
and again um the media will spend it and say or try to ignore it probably say oh jones claims
you know that musk was murdered oh look you know here here's jones again i'm not musk uh jones will
say that uh tony you know has been murdered bordain this is how they operate and it is just insane
to be here at this moment my wife just walked in here honey i've just got contact from spacex
just talked to him all on the phone they definitely killed uh tony bordain but that's what they think
and they message the musk he's gonna go public the kanye west you believe this oh i just walked
to the hotel room anyways i've got to work all day now uh it is it is just unbelievable and
i mean that's where we are as a country it's where we are as a world this is a big message
everybody shut your mouth you're dead and this is them coming out of the woodwork you know they
can't kill trump so they did the next best thing and i mean just think about it 61 just remarry
totally happy nine-year-old daughter uh you know little daughter and that's what's going on and
people's families are being threatened all this stuff is going on and but evil is in its death
rows right now and this evil satanic system i was also told you scared of anybody who is seen as
outside the system or seen as like a world traveler or seen as an independent type good guru okay
they don't like musk they totally hating those who's exposing the ai computers the world government
how the globalist worship ai i told you that you know any game that's really what they believe uh
they they they didn't like the way uh tony was going talking about about the clintons and others
i talked to folks that are again our friends with him spent a lot of time with him the him and musker
gotten very very close they've been friends for years and he wasn't quote having any of it and a
lot of this is classified a lot of this stuff's secret so i couldn't even be told all of it
but i was already aware of the meeting i was already aware of the fact that this production
was coming out from um marocco from marrakesh and so this is just um unprecedented he was about to
be part of the bigger plan and so they're very upset about what is in these episodes not just
the one with elon two months ago in marrakesh marocco but whatever got kicked off after that
and what bordain was saying and what bordain was saying that he was going to do
and the fact that he had been coming out against weinstein and the clintons they saw him as too
powerful and off the reservation and again it's just completely out of context for him to die
like this and for them to instantly say it's a suicide no investigation um we're gonna go to break
in a few minutes also um joe rogan was brought up i like joe i'm real busy i see some of his podcast
i hear some of them i found this here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a
gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society
several years ago i set out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the
last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to
end up being the number one best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well
this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's
a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars
life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports
it's for activities and it's made in the us a get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com
everybody needs to try alpha power today we can extend this free shipping sale much longer with
our best-selling items at info wars store dot com in fact we can only run it a few more days we're
also running out of some of our best-selling items like our amazing neutropic rainforest it's 1995
leading competitors are 60 dollars and aren't even as good it's a great deal normally at 39 95
brain force you've never tried it this is a great opportunity 1995 also alpha power is 50
percent off if you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina focus libido
it does so many things at x2 even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals
of the good halogen iodine i am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few
days at 50 percent off and then after that it's going to go back to full price until we secure
more of it info wars life dot com info wars store dot com or triple eight two five three three one
three nine and thank you all for helping fund the second american global revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
wow to be clear ladies and gentlemen i was told by the sources involved with space sacks and
he won musk very high level uh people that work directly with musk uh on a routine basis that
he was out quietly as an emissary trying to get other people to go public like khanye west did
and kim kardash and all these other people realize the power they have is these as these
reality tv stars and hip hop stars and bordain had basically been gotten on board and had this
you know they were i mean he's already really good friends with you on musk and that this basically
happened and i also can tell everybody um that zero point zero and the companies and cnn
if any of them want to say this is it true or any of them think they're going to edit anything
and stop what we're doing folks have the 11 minute 50 second or whatever it is clip it's 11
you know 11 50 i said 11 30 earlier we have the clip we have the approved segment with helan musk
and with mr bordain and the khanye west awakening and the khanye west type statements the bigger
plan is talked about space travel a future for humans not a post industrial world not a
technotronic microchip planet not the worshiping of the ai gods with humanity going to that level
so go ahead and do anything to our sources do anything to me and it will be released
that's a little tidbit i've got like five more pages here and quite frankly i hand wrote these i
need to go type them up i need to really think about this i need to get this out but i as soon
as i hung the phone up i called in and commandeered the program because this is huge and again
i'm not a hundred percent saying he was killed i'm saying smart people that were friends with him
i say he was happy he was great he was looking forward to his life he said he was the happiest
ever he was doing jiu jitsu he was working out he said he was just he uh bordain said decades ago
he was bummed out and unhappy and was unhealthy he said now he was just super healthy lost all
this way was totally happy just remarried and they said that they believe that he was killed as a
message to elon muskin to everybody else in the whole khanye west awakening movement you come out
we're going to kill you so it is believed that he was killed at a block just like jim morrison
and right there in that hotel room in some grungy crap whole place hanging himself supposedly
leaving his nine-year-old daughter behind and all the rest of that who believes this
who believes any of this it's so classic for people to come into your hotel room
hang your ass and just kill you but you know what you're not going to stop because culture will speak
and people are really going to want to know what happened here you know just take jone rivers what
she said about the first lady and the fact that she's got shoulders like a linebacker
and you know all the rest of it and think about how she was dead right after that
the whole point is is these people don't play games and they think that they're going to intimidate
everybody and they're so afraid just like obama's on record drudger portling to our story calling
up jaycee and saying you get to every hip-hop rapper or music person you know and you tell them
do not go to trump do not meet with trump do not do this we control culture this is about hollywood
propping up it's control of culture and so that's what's going on here anthony or dane
was about to go public it was about to join in the huge global awakening and the bigger plan and
now he's dead and we're supposed to not talk about it or discuss it the most basic stuff
the bryan skelter says well seen and you don't own but your board day of the truth is coming up
our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products that's why we've created
the newest version of a fan favorite formula the real red pill plus the real red pill plus
contains the powerful pregnant alone formula now with an added energy boost now you can support
your heart brain and aging process with an added natural energy boost the proprietary energy blend
includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract your bimate leaf extract and more paired with
the powerful ingredients in the original real red pill formula the real red pill has just what you
need to support your body while getting the pick me up to get you through the day the real red pill
plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body don't miss out on the all
new upgrade to your favorite product head to info wars store com and get the real red pill plus today
get real red pill plus now at 50 off
waging war on corruption it's alex jones
so if you work with Elon musk at the highest levels
and you shoot a tv show with him and and say mordain two months ago and mordain is really
close friends you could say almost best friends with Elon musker was he died we're told by suicide
just instantly that's the news open and shut go back to sleep nothing to see here move along
and then i sit there and i talk to someone that told me mordain was going to be going public and
told me to see Elon musk information was going to come out where they sit there in marrakesh
talking about the future at a solar farm and how they talk about how there's a choice whether
humanity is going to go into the future and we're going to build a world for humanity whether we're
going to build one for the machines and the top technocrats have decided to get rid of humanity
and Elon musk lays it out to mordain as he'd done privately already in mordain that has a
transformation and an awakening on video and then he went on to take dozens of other segments
in the next two months but now mordain is dead he had his own production company 0.0
and now contractually he has the final cut edit but just one directors always want their final
cut don't they but just like somebody else had the final cut who was his name stanley kubrick
probably the greatest director ever and his daughter told me and me alone what really happened to her
dad and i'm sworn to secrecy on it but i already knew a lot of it and you know she really co-directed
some of his last films and what she told me was what we already know now don't and she told me
she said the next few years you're going to become the biggest thing in the news they're going to try
to destroy you they're going to come after you but it's not going to work and i met another lady
a lady worth four billion dollars in time and she was going to leave it that told me the same
thing six years ago these people know a lot folks and there's people in the system that are just as
smart as we are smarter who don't want to be in the system but who have been terrorized their
entire lives to keep them in this damn cult so you understand that ladies and gentlemen that
kubrick was going to release eyes wide shut and tell you how it really works
but they killed him and they cut 24 minutes out of it and ladies and gentlemen that's exactly
where all of this points when stanley kubrick drops dead and there's no autopsy or tony bourdain
drops dead and we're just told boom he's dead suicide that's it case closed when somebody
worth you know 100 million dollars like bourdain when somebody who's a top culture person with
the only people in mainstream media that still has any pull and they're throwing all the other
ones overboard like charlie rose and then magically he dies we got a nine-year-old
daughter and just got remarried and was told elon musk just days ago how happy he was and
i was the best time i was live now he felt so good about what they were about to do
you see the word is bourdain was inches from going to the white house
and actually shaking trump's hand but it doesn't matter we're already winning aren't we
this is a message to elon musk and i've been told it's a message to joe rogan
and i've been told it's a message to me and all of you to shut up and lay down well you
know what bill clinton's coming to town sunday and i would try to be out there demonstrating
outside that everybody else is getting their tickets you imagine you go in there and you bring
up jerry eppstein the way to express harvey windsfield on board the little kids getting flown
out and some of the same islands have the nexium sex cult brought out to it one person gets up
they get taken out another person gets up they get taken out imagine that happens everywhere
these people need to understand we're ready to do whatever it takes they keep sending me messages
hey we're suing you hey we're coming after you hey we're demonizing everywhere hey i get it
i've seen the demonic look in your eyes i've seen the demonic look in your servant's eyes
and i want to be all the way away from you is very powerful then garrison piece that he just did
about bernie sanders and he took the bernie sanders minion and perfectly put him into cartoon form
with this crazy cult like stare the guy's got this thing there in my face and turned it into a poster
turned into an image that we can pull that up but i'm telling you when you look in the eyes of these
people and they're giggling and they're laughing as a minion but above them is the cold dark steely
frozen hatred of someone who wants to dominate you with their will and who has sworn themselves to
turn themselves to evil and turn themselves over to it you realize you are dealing with pure satanism
and people like portain and cognate and others who aren't inherently evil but have been around
these elites and they know they don't want to be with jc and hillary they know they don't want
to be with these people they know as it comes down to the wire of 5g and planetary sterilization
and half the population dying of cancer they know that it's time to fight back and to live
their life forces coming back it's always darkest right before the dawn and i'm going to collect
myself and get all these documents together because this is history happened just like hillary
called me the dark heart just like we helped all of us together re-engineer the reboot of 1776
we don't act like we're important but all of us are important so of course i get the phone call
to know what's really going on and i would advise elon musk as he's already done to go public about
how the media is controlled and has to disdain and hates us and about the ai gods and the plan
for exterminism and all the things he's already said elon has to go public right now with everything
where they'll continue to manipulate his stockdown soros will buy it all up as he's already trying
to do an awful takeover and they will end up killing elon so when they kill elon musk the
south african super engineer because he was pro-human just remember that they'll tell you it was
suicide and no investigation just like everybody else because as we are currently speaking they're
sending a message to him and if he cowers they'll kill him for sure if he stands
he will win they probably won't kill him but regardless humanity will make it all of us have
to make that decision now but they were never going to let orday their prize because he had
some soul he had some humanity he wasn't one of the dead mummies but he was still a modern leftist
they can't have one of their prized weapons fall into humanity's hands and so like an old warship
that they don't want to send back out to sea they blow it up in the harbor like an old cannon you
spike so they'll ever fire again or an old sword you break that's what they did i mean that's way
more plausible than oh he just committed suicide at the top of his career at 61 with a nine-year-old
daughter just remarried totally happy telling people he'd never been happier i mean i talked to
folks that you know hang out with him that they drink with him everything they say no way and i've
got all these other notes here who is killing the culture kate spade and her billions magically dead
and if it isn't suicide why is mental illness spreading why why is suicide up everywhere and
the more TV we watch the more smartphones the more prozac we take you know going down that angle
what's this what's the spirit there's an awakening right now ladies and gentlemen trump just came
out and said we should meet with the russians this is insane why aren't they in the g7 anymore
why don't we kick them out it should be the g8 it's all happening sanity is coming back
into the world i've also been told we should look at trump at the fema meeting yesterday
when he takes his water bottle off the table and puts it between his legs and it looks at
pence and pence does the same thing as a signal that's a classified signal and i have not even
been able to i'm not the i can't be told what the signal is but it deals with the whole child
trafficking and the fact of the whole thing's going down that was a signal to people in the
pentagon what trump did at that fema meeting yesterday when he takes the water bottle off the
table folks want you to know that as well it looks at pence and he does it open and shut
found dead as he's found dead we're told open and shut suicide nothing to see here go away
so famous in hollywood they kill famous people to get the insurance money you know we're not
we're told don't wash y'all have another big report on this coming out at info wars dot com
very soon
you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer finally someone
has come out and written what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government ever
we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run through ruled
by a shadow government we got to get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't
mean other people are this is critical to get to read a given library to give you the church
get them right now at killing uncle sam buck dot com killing uncle sam buck dot com get the
ultimate knife at an ultimate price the fox carambit knife finally available in the u.s a fox
carambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility for defense
and for way less than other knives of this caliber go to the ultimate knife dot com truly the best
knife you will ever own and only available at the ultimate knife dot com use promo code radio
at checkout for free shipping get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at the ultimate knife
dot com want revenge on the common house fly well after ten thousand years someone has finally
come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table
salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a
wife and kids thirty nine ninety five and free economy shipping use discount code gcn and get
an extra ten percent off your purchase at bug assault dot com fire your fly swatter get your bug
assault today bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required
proprietary value added packaging provides ten-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest
center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve
savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon
dot com ready to eat bacon dot com do you realize that when you spread the links from m4s dot com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the
globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's
why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that
everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no
way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to but the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable
meals is crucial with info wars life select storable food you can make sure you and your family are
ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full
year there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as
travelers stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner
info wars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even
work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked
up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select
storable foods you're listening to the alex jones show
and now the tip of the spear leading the fight to take back the mission it's
oh and shawyer you're listening to the alex jones show seth rich antonin scalia anthony bourdain
you know i would say the safest thing you could do right now if you were uh
elon musk kanya west type who wants to step out into the public sphere against the new world
order against the mental slavery you better come out publicly before it's too late that's the answer
to this now the same principle applies to the public protest like going to a bill clinton book tour
and standing up and saying bill we know why you rode on the lolita express 26 times bill
and if you have 10 people do that in succession at one event it's game over for them folks
standing up to these people is the first step to victory and so that's why this sunday
at 6 p.m outside bass concert hall here in austin texas we are having a hashtag me to protest
if they're going to send people like bill clinton out there if they're going to send the globalist
secret society operatives out there it's our duty to stand up in their face as a representation
of we the people that are not going to let this country go to scum like the clintons and the obamas
or even the bushes to be fair let's get leo zegami back on here because i want to put a cap
on the conversation we were having before alex jones broke the big news on anthony bourdain
with his sources leo how much stock would you put in my theory that the reason why the vatican
is going to meet secretly with the bill the burgers is because they realize they're losing
their stranglehold on the control of politics in the world but they want to make sure that they
can cement their hold over history secret human history all the artifacts they have hidden at the
vatican what do you think the odds are that that has something to do with this vatican meeting with
the bill the berks well first of all anthony bourdain it was he had a girlfriend in italy who was
very famous as a regento who was connected to this meet the woman because she didn't have
so openly having wasted even in the last can so i wanted to just say that because of course
it's news that shocks everybody but imagine if people like asia regento will turn in favor
of donald j trump it would be the end of of the world for the liberals in any case regarding the
bill the berg and the vatican i was told in the last few minutes that they have been discussing
the deal that the vatican broke with communist china which is quite incredible because apparently
the vatican has accepted the official church the official catholic church promoted by the communist
party in china this means the end of catholicism as we know in china but with the support of the
vatican so this is something that are also disgusting in in in the meeting at the bill the
berg club so there is also something connected with the china that the parolin is meant to transmit
to the other mondial is present at the bill the berg meeting and if more people will become aware
of what is happening like antony budeno many other artists things will change the world will change
of course because we are in front of a dictatorship in the media uh hollywood which has been completely
compromised by the liberals for a long time but things are gradually changing and i myself wrote
a book about hollywood and the illuminati four years ago but if i was to rewrite it now i will
probably have to add a whole new chapter with the arrival of donald j trump though people like jz are
obviously uh scambags and criminals working for obama and for the new world order they're also
satanist because it's true what alex just said these people are satanists jz even openly promotes
the thought of alistair crawley and do what they will should be the whole of the law so there is a
lot that we don't really know about these artists behind the scenes dedicate a lot of their time
to sexual magic satanism and perverse behavior which of course brings them power so i have been
writing about all this in my books for years and they are now available in the english language
and at the same time i hope that people go into the study of these secret societies because like
the bill the bad meeting is demonstrating now in turing these people are hiding uh themselves from
the world even if now of course they have been exposed by people like us and so they're trying to
have a different kind of approach they're still the same enemy that wants to keep in secret their
plan for mondialism or this globalization which wants to shape a one world religion well let's
hold on i want to hold it right there leo because i want to get into something with
you here before before we let you go here in this next break let's kind of just roll this back a
little bit and let's look at a jz or even a snoop dog and this is i mean people in american
need to understand this now i'm not saying jay z or snoop dog is a cia operative but i'm saying that
the cia had plans that basically built up m tv built up the rap industry with jay z with snoop
dog and what did that do that created a culture for black people that was now all about gangsterism
drug dealing pimping and being a schmuck where the black culture used to be about family god
uh integrity the cia destroyed that with the jay z's and the snoop dogs now whether or not jay z and
snoop dog or cia operatives you can have that debate but they are operatives now of the satanist
new world order cult for whatever reason if they're blackmailed if they really believe in this stuff
and you can see that in what they're doing now against trump and what they're doing now for
the establishment but then how do you explain the other elements like the kanye west that aren't
aren't are they not as blackmailable did they not go deep into the spirit cookings like the others
did what is the difference there it depends from the handlers if their handlers have something on
them or if they don't and also the capacity of the handlers of keeping them under their control
so they not necessarily a cia part of the cia but they have hundreds who are in the intelligence
community in the cia and the other agencies and they are subjects to black black they're blackmailable
all the time because they are always given to perversion people like jay z snoop doggy dog
have a tour the world with the help of military intelligence and i can so thank you so would you
say that jay z jay z's cia handler is barry satoro aka barack obama well i can tell you one thing
that both snoop doggy dog and jay z went to a concert in japan in okinawa i think it was around
2009 and the handlers for all this were people from the military intelligence and they were
connected also with the yakuza in japan and so it was quite out in the open that these people were
working for the new world order and i know about the person who had to escape there because they
were in great danger in okinawa and they wanted to use this person as a sexual slave of their own
perversion all right that's leo zigami if you want more of his reports leo zigami dot com thank you leo
we call it the crapper water closet outhouse or bathroom but where do you go when there's nowhere
to go the answer is the biffy bag the biffy bag is a pocket sized disposable toilet that fits in
your glove box tackle box toolbox backpack or purse the biffy bag has everything you need for a
sanitary and comfortable relief experience it's ready to use in just seconds and just toss it
in the trash when you're done it's your biffy in a jiffy biffy bag dot com b i f f y b a g dot com
water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you
and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the
lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
Patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding
hey um mate i've been following you since i was 14 i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and
prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my
dial up into that now i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds
and followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival
shield and since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality the caveman the real red pill
micro zx body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so
much it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit
and it's just the more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted
to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there
1776 world war
info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun
a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every
batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens
simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result
of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years
but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3
product in the world read the facts at info wars life.com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does
vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something
the globalists are targeting visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139
years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal
yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we
had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result
of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight back
micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered
by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape
seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro
balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life
dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
and now your host owin shroyer welcome back to the alex jones show we're going to be joined
back by alex jones here just momentarily crazy times we are living in here folks truly crazy
times i just wish that the average human more specifically the average american that actually
has access to this information to this intelligence would actually engage themselves in the battle
for the future instead of just being a sad stop that just walks through life day by day checking
the sport scores tuning in to the favorite television station mindlessly going about the day
oh this is just life on earth now just a brainwashed minion just going through life
it's not our destiny it's not america's destiny and we're taking that destiny back to control
our own future and to save it for humanity and so many people are dumbed down and numb
when it comes to their mind that they'll easily scoff off the anthony bordain suicide story
up suicide k done but when you look overall at the whole picture look at kate spade now was
that genuine that appears to be a genuine suicide i mean i don't know but doesn't that create then
the perfect environment to suicide somebody else oh suicide is already in the headlines
a famous celebrity commit suicide oh perfect time let's take more day now oh yeah suicide
but what about antonin scalia
and the list just goes on and on from there i mean i i'm not gonna i'm not gonna go too
into it folks but i mean you think uh michael jackson just died of natural causes you think
that that man's life just naturally went that way ever listen to michael jackson's lyrics now you see
why the doctor killed him but i digress because part of what we need to do is stand up to these people
their biggest success their easiest path to victory is no resistance and that's what they want
that's why they poison the food and water that's why they give you the mindless dribble on television
that's why they give you the nancy poloses and the erics wall wells to represent you in government
the dumbest of the dumb but when humans stand up when you realize you are in charge when you realize
that you control your own destiny you have the power that's when you stand up in defiance that's
when you stand up in resistance going along with the establishment narrative to hate trump
that's being a brainwashed foot soldier of the new world order standing against that
and calling out the scum when they come to your city that's true resistance that's why this sunday
we're having a me too protest here in austin texas i want all info warriors from all across texas that
can join me this sunday evening six p.m central outside bass concert hall will bill clint where
bill clint is having his book tour and i'll just say i mean look i'm not going into that event i'll
be protesting outside but you know let's say uh four five six seven eight nine ten info warriors
decide to get a ticket to that event and sneak inside heck organize it organize it now with your
family and friends bill clint's book tour is going on when bill clint's book tour comes to your local
city get ten of your family and friends to organize a protest inside the event one of you stands up
says bill clint is a rapist info wars dot com hub of blue and then they kick him out then the next
one stands up why did bill clinton go on jeffrey fc's jet 26 times you why were you on fc's jet
without secret service blue uh oh the crowd mumbles murmurs and then he gets kicked out and then the
next one stands up bill you were friends with harvey wandstein you were taking money from harvey
wandstein you were friends with harvey wandstein and then oh the murmur in the crowd and then he
gets kicked out and then the next one stands up bill why did you and hillary steal furniture and
silverware from the white house why were you stealing from the white house upon leaving it
who and then the murmur oh this is all factual this is all real that's victory that's empowerment
that's changing the world and that's what we're calling on you to do not just this sunday with
the hashtag meet true protest outside bass concert hall at 6 p.m this sunday but in your local cities
when they come look let's say there's a big event in your city msnbc is there cnn is there
go bullhorn them go get in their camera shot go scream at them at your fake news go get an interview
pretending like you're gonna say what they want you to say and then say info wars dot com is real
news we all know you're fake that's how you defeat these people so just understand
resistance is a multifaceted issue we can call it out we can report on it we can show the double
standards but you also have to stand you also have to take physical action you have to let
these people know you're not backing down hillary and bill clinton get their hubris by the fact that
they can go on these tours and nobody stands up to them they know they're blatant criminals
and if you have all these people that sit there and hang on their every word that's where they get
their power oh but if the people start to resist look at what happens to them they falter they look
dead that's our victory that's our resistance now we're going to be hopefully organizing more
this stuff hopefully citizens can take action into their own hands but on our end we're doing
everything we can just like this sunday we're sending out a huge crew we're going to be broadcasting
live from the me to protest this sunday outside bass concert hall but it's all possible with your
support at info wars store dot com we're going to have probably at least four people out there
working overtime just like always six p.m central that's after the live alex joneshow from four to
six p.m that i'll be hosting this sunday we'll probably hearing from alex and other special
guests then i go to bass concert hall with a big camera crew will be talking to you if you got
something you want to say we'll give you the microphone we'll give you a voice or if you
want to hold up a sign and just be a part of the protest there let your presence be known
that's what you're out there for but it's all possible with your support at info wars store
dot com super summer sale this is the last chance this is happening this weekend free shipping store
wide free shipping store wide and then huge discounts 50 off dna force plus 50 off pollen
block 50 off alpha power 50 off brain force plus 50 off super female vitality 50 off super
male vitality 50 off the real red pill plus 50 off survival shield x2 nasa nighting take
advantage of the super summer sale at info wars store dot com including free shipping store wide now
alex jones is going to join us here in the next segment but just to kind of recap where we've been
so far today before alex jones breaks it all down in the next segment you've got more democrat
that how should we say operatives being exposed now with this russian probe led by muhler more
democrats are being exposed as the ones behind this literally every time you turn a corner
and see a new face and name it's a democrat operative or a fusion gps operative just just
you know that that's going to break next then you've got the inspector general report set to
be released june 14th that's president trump's birthday that is just a day after the north korea
summit that's about to kick off as well this weekend so just i mean just huge news across the board
you've got trump defying the anti-american g7 leaving early skipping the climate change conference
and then saying why isn't russia here why are we doing these negotiations in these meetings without
russia then japan's prime minister abe comes out and says trump is right why isn't russia here
italy's new prime minister comes out and says trump is right why isn't russia here
just breaking the globalist back i mean just just destroying their control over the world politics
now uh-oh russia's at the table another nation that wants to be sovereign and free and not be a
globalist country oh my gosh now america doesn't want to be a globalist country do you understand
that russia and america fighting the globalist it's game over for them it's game over but that's
only if americans are willing to stand up and we're starting to see that they are
welcome to world history folks is what it looks like guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial
part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages having
a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select storable food you can make sure
you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging
from 72 hours to a full year there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals
including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast
lunch and dinner info wars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need
they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and
transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure
you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select
storable foods living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can
be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need
to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid
rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of
heavy metals and acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity
filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored
to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
this is the last week to get free shipping on all of our best-selling items at info wars store
dot com we also have some of the biggest sales in our history on super high quality supplements
and other products at info wars store dot com as well as info wars life dot com bodies ultimate
turmeric formula has the strongest curcumin and level of any other brand you're going to find out
there at 95 percent leading competitors have a curcumin level of three percent from there we've
got dozens and dozens and dozens of other gang changing products that you and your family will
absolutely love and will help support the broadcast it is critical that you go to info wars store
dot com and look at some of those items for yourself whether it's water filtration air filtration
non-gmo heirloom seeds x2 it's all there at info wars store dot com or info wars life dot com
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos
you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globalist it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on
the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations
you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning you're listening to the alex
jones show well i won't back down no i won't back down you can stand me up at the gates of hell
but i won't back down gonna stand my ground please gentlemen alex jones here live broadcasting from
my hotel room with uh an emergency transmission update that is absolutely critical now i want
to be clear i got up because i'm here in hawaii at about four a.m and i noticed that a army
source of mine uh had sent me a link that anthony bordeaux had just died and that they were saying
it was a suicide out of the gates and that that was suspicious when they say something's a suicide
when it's first announced they always say police are looking into it at least for a day or so and
then you hear suicide whenever you hear it right away it's very suspicious and the individual i was
talking to has been in the highest levels of security details protecting hillary clinton
george w bush you name it and he thought it was very very suspicious uh bordeaux knew a lot of
secrets he had become very very famous first writing you know a tell all book about this you
know the secrets of being a top chef but i tweeted out that hey if i commit suicide i didn't commit
suicide i was killed i said he was enemies you know more and more with the clinton's but i
said he also said bad things about trump you know that he'd serve him hemlock as a joke
but bordeaux was the only successful person on cnn bordeaux was uh superstar internationally
and really respected he was becoming really good friends with elon musk well i got a
emergency phone call from one of the producers saying one of our best sources
was wants to talk to you he's really upset and it all clicked on went oh my god he told me
off air months ago and on air just a few weeks ago that you look for other big hollywood icon type
you know people he told me off air anthony bordeaux saying that he had helped produce
with elon musk this individual works with space hacks in other areas this piece with bordeaux
and that bordeaux had been challenged by elon musk to go public and to talk about his experiences
and what he knew and to basically do a full kanya fully woke and so i knew about this and then it
totally clicked you know this was about like six in the morning hawaii time i had time to wake up
so i wrote a bunch of notes here you can see some of them are on hotel coasters and these are the
notes that the gentleman you basically laid out to me and i know the gentleman is his family is
well known and wealthy to say the least and he has been involved in army special operations armies
psychological operations and he's even said i can say who he is now but i'm at this point
i said i'm gonna give you some time to cool off before we do that right now this he told me this
about an hour and a half ago right now he's in hot water with folks but we had to do this in case
they try to kill him or myself because here's the bottom line or dane was 61 years old he had a
happy nine-year-old daughter he'd just gotten remarried he'd never been happier he had been
friends with elon musk for a long time so he was becoming best friends with musk musk is fully
awake to globalism the new world order the whole brainwashing system the post-human system they're
trying to set up he's been saying everything that i told you 20 years ago and i put an end game 11
years ago not because he's following what i said but because that's what the globalist are planning
he's been let in at the highest levels into their meetings because he's a you know high IQ
guy and a multi-billionaire and now he's under Soros attack and others trying a hostile takeover so
they were in marrakesh moranco two months ago kicking off the taping of his new season
0.0 is the production company he owns his own show and musk and him had already been hanging out
there in moranco for four or five days really you know discussing what was happening what was
going on up on this big vista where they had this high-tech science lab connected to some of the
leaders of moranco and so they're up there doing the shoot you'll remember a few months ago when
one of our guests was from moranco that was all going on then in moranco then and they were discussing
all these things and he was really deprogramming him and anthony bordeaux was kind of coming out of
his shell the khanye west thing that started to happen and then more of his shows became this whole
woke thing globally to what was happening in a pro-human future in pro-space exploration not a
post-industrial world not a globalist depopulation planet not this thing where the ai gods take
over that musk and others have warned about that that google and others are embracing and saying
humans are bad we need to post human world so bordain has been anti-trump anti-hillary
anti-weinstein you know he's really written things about Henry Kissinger that are true that
are very bold for somebody who's respected by liberals and it's because he was seen as somebody
even more than khanye west who could double trump's numbers with black voters he was seen as somebody
to be the final domino to fall because he's so respected by liberals out there and he was showing
sides of a conscience he was realizing what was happening he was aware of all the government sex
trafficking and the things that were going on and he was beginning to talk about working that into
his show he was working that into his show and the word has come down now we actually have the
almost 12 minute video clip that is the episode in morocco but the 12 minutes sit down in the
in the 45 minute you know hour long episode but 45 minutes is actual program actual show
our sources have the 11 minute 50 second clip if they ever think that they're going to now
grab it and make it all a retrospective about bordain and mix in his old episodes and change it
they got nothing coming because bordain had final cut but his company didn't and so just like
stanley cubrick put out eyes wide shut when he had the final cut done he had final cut power
but he refused to cut 24 minutes he died instantly and i've talked to his daughter who was his
protege and the stuff she told me was off record but let me just tell you it all fits together
i've also talked to the linens and they told me he's off record but it all fits together just for
my information but i almost at this point almost don't want to know stuff in confidence anymore
because it's like the narles barkley song well i was crazy not because i didn't know anything
because i knew too much so that's all going on so i'm seen as one of the only venues where people
could actually get this stuff out where people aren't scared and i've been told by the pentagon
other patriots the highest levels that they fear trump they fear donald trump jr they fear matt
drudge they feared anthony because he was starting to wake up to what was going on was so influential
with the left and others and internationally was such a star and they fear yours truly and it's
not like i'm proud to be saying this is very dangerous position to be in but they really
fear almost more than anybody except trump right now elon musk and elon needs to go public i've
already been saying that he's been going public against the media he's been going public against
the ai takeover plan but elon this was a message to elon musk in fact this is the takeaway
anthony or durr was getting ready to go public
and said that he was pro-human bring the parties together don't hate trump
let's work together let's have a human future let's not be a new genics an elon musk message of
truth an alex jones message because this is the the truth kanye west in fact he specifically talked
about the bigger plan it's like when i was loose ferakon's house two years ago he goes
you know kanye comes by and he likes a bigger plan and they looked at me because i hadn't
been let in on the code word yet and ferakon said what you want about him is a major game changer
tea person just like bordur could be uh or or or you know you know any of these people um so
so it's it's it's just absolutely mind-boggling right now to know this is going on and know this
is happening i'ma try to be calm we come back from break no dr nick baggers has got a whole
huge presentation ready for you his dad died mysterious plane crashes brother of course u.s
senator but he's got a lot of big insight intel for you as you can see i was planning to not go
on air anyone i was on this trip with my kids for eight days but we don't have a future if i don't
do this so i will be here as much as i need to be i'm very humbled to be in this position to
have this type of information but i have talked to the folks at spacex i have talked to people
inside musk organization right there at the top of it uh and i am breaking down to you what is
going on here cnn will absolutely be in dreaded fear that we i mean i was asked today i said
should we release the 11 minute 50 second clip and i said let's hold off while you're hot right now
while you're upset not gonna say you are yet they already know who you are and we're not going to
release it 11 minute clip yet but the word is already is that they're going to grab these
episodes because this is this big awakening already happening it hit a catalyst in morocco
a few months ago uh and then now a chain reaction into this it's all happening everywhere across the
world but but as these prominent people begin to wake up and go with humanity and go with life
and go with pro-human there's an absolute panic by the globalists going on in there trying to
send a message by going after bourdain you can clearly see that the threat and everybody else
we'll be right back on the other side of this break this is an emergency
global transmission newsports.com i'm alex jones we will continue to go in through and beyond
no matter what the cost may be we'll go on to the end to quote wednesday churchill
patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding
me i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info was in prison
planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my dial-up
into that and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and
followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival
shield and since then i'm on the x2 the supermal vitality the caveman the real red pill micro zx
body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much
it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit
and it's just the more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted
to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there
1776 world war you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have
it in fullers life it take hours michael zx plus it now is a lower price it's stronger
it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold uh the candida it's back
in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the
precursor to all the natural hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a
lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and
remembering that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake
and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second
american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show gentlemen we have called you together
to inform you that we are going to overthrow the united states government leading a frontal assault
on the lives of the new world order it's alex jones you still think that jet fuel brought down a
war trade center does anybody else see a problem here ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for
joining us on this live global friday transmission anthony bordain was one of the number one
host of the world the only success he had he was branching out he was planning to do programs on
child trafficking human sex trafficking he'd become best friends with elon musk he had spent close
to a week in morocco two months ago at a private home with a scientific research facility and we
have the 11 minute 52nd clip that they want cut out we're able to bring that to you it's been offered
to us but we're not going to air that here at this point the cnn or anybody says we're lying about
this we'll drop the hammer on you i won't drop the hammer on you somebody's going to drop the
hammer on you they didn't want this clip to come out they didn't want this information to come out
he was calling for a global awakening he was understanding that democrats are actually pro
war they've been funding isis and al-qaeda he understood that the republican establishment
was just as bad as well and that all these people claiming they were liberals weren't really liberals
and that trump had a bigger plan a new renaissance plan and elon musk had convinced him of this and
so bordain was preparing just like kanye west and just like kim kardashian to begin to reach out to
trump just like she came to the white house last week on getting black people out of prison who were
given racist sentences because of uh what color they were she has the perfect way for her to reach
out to show that trump's good then have him move towards getting those laws changed which he's now
announced the clinton's got it passed in 94 saying blacks were animals and needed to be made to heal
like dogs remember that well well trump thinks that's wrong and so all this was about to happen
and bordain was aware of what was happening the clintons were failing they were falling
he was starting to come out and criticizing hillary he was starting to come out and criticize
others like winstein and he was about to become not a conservative not even a nationalist he's
a true international guy but in a good sense he really wants he wanted peace and love he'd
spoken out against kissinger he's spoken out against you know he said i'll serve him locked to trump
back when he was buying the bull but he was getting ready via
via what was happening with elon musk to be a real leader and to go meet with trump and to go
public that's really the big news here and now he's died mysteriously in a hotel room a crappy
hotel room right when he just got remarried right when he has a nine-year-old daughter that's so
happy right when he told elon musk and others that he's the happiest he's ever been this magically
happens ladies and gentlemen the only guy only guy successful in their entire system and everybody
liked him because he had you know a little bit of humanity to him compared to somebody like wolf
blitzer somebody like brian stelter somebody like hillary clinton now he's dead now he's dead and they
just say boom suicide boom move on boom that's it just don't look at it don't have a discussion
nothing to see here that is ridiculous and i have from spacex sources is i'm sitting there
you're ready to go have breakfast with my children because i'm six hours ahead from the east coast
five hours ahead from central three hours ahead from pacific four hours ahead from mountain
it's 903 here where i'm at 904 and i'm when i come back i'm just going to read these notes to ui
rub i've got one two three four five six six seven pages of notes one of them is a coaster
and it says uh culture will speak from the dead i dare them to say it's open and shut
but also they said it was critical to play the clip but i never told you guys to do this of
bordain and obama in vietnam when they first sit down and talk how much bordain didn't like obama
and some of the things he told elon musk they knew that bordain knew things that he wasn't supposed
to know and they didn't even tell me everything this is super dangerous i'm risking my life even
telling you this stuff and that we have the clue go ahead and try me cnn and we'll drop the hammer
on you so fast we'll be back stay with us feeling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced
the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your
gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life
daily digestive pack today from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
the strange days are going to try to destroy us the question is will we let that happen
dr nick baggage a scientist researcher major native lands leader his brother former u.s senator
his father famous congressman is so much of the civil rights movement more who died very mysteriously
he's about to take over i wanted to just let you know that i'm on vacation with family i got a very
desperate call from one of the producers that one of our top pentagon space x sources
had had been called us and that he he'd already told me that he'd take a special report in morocco
with elon musk and that it was with anthony bourdain but at six o'clock in the morning
then when this happened it's nine o'clock now when i first got this news and and then it all
started to click so i called our source back and he went over the whole thing he was there
it was obviously they know who it is on the inside it was at his home with his family and you know
there in morocco with their big facility and of course when it comes out who he is provide those
who basically runs morocco and so you've got you've got elon musk and you've got anthony bourdain
at this big facility overlooking the vista on the ocean and they spent days out there and musk
is already really good friends with or was good friends with mr bourdain and of course musk is
telling you everything i tell you world government ai takeover we got to stop it they plan to get rid
of humans the decision's been made we got to struggle against it the media is lying to you
they're your enemies they want to stop human progress and so let me just read to you the notes
that i was given and again i was already told this months ago also ashton kutcher
he was about to go public in all of this i was told a month before she went to the winehouse
that about the same source that they they call it
well they have several terms for it but full spectrum reality
they have a lot of terms full spectrum drama where where trump and others in the patriot
leadership recruited khanye five years ago when they decided to make this move
the military was going to carry out a coup against obama because he was signing us over the chinese
they did the office of personnel management hack 21 million names of all our spies all our people
all their families the keys of the kingdom apples now move they're giving them all the keys to all
apple users your cloud code that's reuters i mean we're already pretty much been taken over by the
chinese they've got hollywood they're taken over the universities i mean it is it is mega level but
last dish effort was made with trump he reached out to khanye he reached out to kim kardashian
she was on the fence he khanye went with it that's what they locked him up in a mental institution
about a year and a half ago and he was going to already launch this but he they had let him go
they you know that whole act where they can say something's wrong with you and then grab you for
a few days and so reportedly a lot of stuff to khanye was in there but he he powered through it
he's a great hero he is man he's got everything to lose he stood up because he has everything to gain
and so all of that unfolded um and so you've got spacex you've got elon mus that represents
kind of the good faction in nasa that wants to have a pro-human future doesn't want to suppress
the live assistance technologies i told you at the inauguration before trump spoke that he would
talk about unlocking the secrets of the universe and that he would call for the secret medical
technologies they've been suppressing to be released he's not moving forward with that i'm on record
because i have the sources but i want to be honest with you it's metaphysical i have sources but we
all know already so we're already finishing each other's sentences that's why they hate us we we
are plugged in to the internet of of of the human mind the human destiny the human will what humanity
wants and so yes we scientifically look at stuff yes we talk to each other yes but we're already
synced up just like bill martz said last friday alex jones and donald trump are soulmates and
it's true we're all soulmates there's billions of people that are soulmates with black skin with
white skin with red skin with yellow skin with pink skin with sunburned skin we are all together
in this big quest in this love of humanity the love of our ancestors a love of the great quest
and there's people that want to satanically block that and still the future and it's not happening
so i'm going to go to dr nick baggage after the break or just a minute but let me just give you
these notes culture will speak from the dead they've opened and shut said that he died it's
preposterous um bordain was not having any of it he was ready to stand against him he was finally
convinced by elon musk of what was really going on and shown the proof the proof of the child
trafficking and things that he'd seen himself but didn't put two into together is what made him
have nightmares and basically break down he came out of the depression and wouldn't talk about what
he was going to do except saying he liked what kanya had done and was planning to go public and
wanted to perhaps even meet with trump publicly to say we should have unity and world peace he
liked the fact that he the trump wants to work with russia and the fact that he understood that
bordain or so that was all made up bordain didn't like the pressure he was put under by cnn uh to
come out wrote these quick and to basically get involved the whole trump bashing operation
and then even after he did what they wanted it only got worse that was a turning point for him
the epstein situation in hillary and being attacked by the democrats and her staffers
uh again uh he just had a gut level had already met trump before and didn't know
why everybody was demonizing him so much and he wanted world peace
again there's the broader message that this is a message to elon musk and others and and joe
rogan that if you don't shut up we're going to kill you and kill your family uh that that everyone's
children in danger and then i'm a target that's pray for me police folks um he had just gotten
remarried was totally happy talking to elon almost every day they were planning to do big
stuff together talking about a new tv program oh this is why they got pissed netflix is the
future obama wants to come in but they'll force feed it he was talking about leaving cnn and
then doing a tv show about human advancement and the human future with elon musk who that's the big
one just the jealousy at cnn and just just everything but they didn't want him to leave them
they wanted to you know he's gone now they can own the dead star they can milk all his old episodes
and and and then edit out all the stuff he did the last two months with dozens and dozens of
segments he taped about his awakening so that that scared him plus he was going to leave him
at zero point zero he said he was the happiest he'd been in his life he he felt like he'd been so
unhappy when he was the mainline liberal he was like in a prison but now he was awake
and and and and they spent days with him this individual that was with musk
and all this he works with musk and was like witnessing this and just how happy they were
so quick
he kept talking about the bigger plan that was a bigger plan for humanity now
he saw the so-called leftist plan wasn't even leftist plan was to control the left
yeah zpz 0.0 again owning his own show but now that he's dead he won't have the final cut
wanted to trump for forum and meeting was actually planning to get on trump about some
issues but also thank him for other issues and say that we should all come together for global
peace and they thought it was reasonable for people to talk to trump and for jz to go meet with him
and then he was just basically really synced up with elon musk and i was told a bunch of other stuff
and so i'm going to talk to my source and put out as much more of this as i can
so i had to cross through some of this because they asked me not to get into it
but
he died in a crappy hotel room in france and instantly they said oh it's suicide which is
always a telltale sign there's a cover up we're going to go to break here in 60 seconds and i'm
going to let him take over but just as a snapshot in 60 seconds dr nick baggage what do you make
of this you experience your dad being killed what do you make of this well you know i think
that it's about whistleblowing right i mean this is ultimately what it becomes and years ago i was
working with members of european parliament to try and create an independent way of doing it we
never got anywhere but whistleblowing i think is fundamental to how a democracy should run i mean
we need to know certain truths for republic to stay intact and when you look around the world at
the corruption out there whether it's a democrats or the republicans the very highest level it's
always the same player working against our interests for someone else i think that's what
we're seeing and it's coming down i know you've got a full show prepared but but there are systems
unraveling there's a huge global earth pulse away that you predicted 20 years ago talk about that
when you come back i'm going to be listening dr nick baggage uh earth pulse dot com in full
words dot com stay with us you have been lied to my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated
cia officer finally someone has come out and written what i think is the best x mose on the
shadow government ever we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run
ruled by a shadow government we got to get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't
mean other people are this is critical to get to read to give the library to give you courage to
get them right now at killing uncle sam book dot com killing uncle sam book dot com bacon lovers
we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging
provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon
in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use ordered today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat
bacon dot com want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come
up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as
ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids
3995 and free economy shipping use discount code gcn and get an extra 10 percent off your
purchase at bug assault dot com fire your fly swatter get your bug assault today if you or someone
you care about loves outdoor adventure then check out sling bow dot com for some unique holiday gift
ideas that's sling bow dot com where we have some innovative new products for the archer hunter or
bow fishing enthusiast in your family now through january use the promo code holiday to get free
shipping in the us or canada and from all of us at sling bow industries have a safe joyous
and peaceful holiday season nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic
fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic
acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help
feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify
the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's
made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that
i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those
brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support
and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z
shield and force life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
you are either with the republic or against it resistance to tyrants is obedience to god it's
alex jones
and welcome back to the alex jones show and this is dr nick baggage and i'm standing in for alex
for this last hour of uh friday's show um first i want to pick up where alex left off you know
when uh when he was talking about my predictions 20 years ago about unawakening uh a time when we
would really see the kind of changes uh that we're beginning to see now i i think we're in the middle
of it and i'd really like to start this fight by thinking about what we just said about reaching
out to each other and and i want to talk about the baseline on my my baseline values first of all
i believe that we are in fact created in the image and likeness of god and i think we should start
to act like and and maybe this gets us to a closer place of solution when you look at another human
being and you see the divinity in them when you look in their eyes and you start to recognize
that a certain level of respect uh is required um that begins to change the paradigm that begins
to change the way we see the world when we begin to see each other differently in the world you know
in between us uh and i've said it before are the electronic sort of interfaces that are the priest
of the 21st century if you will that which stands between us in divinity in the earth which is each
other created in the image and likeness of god so um that foundation is where i start and finish
my work each day and and what i want to say uh in the context of today's program when we're talking
about the things going on in the world is to inform is to educate and it's also to change
the way we see it but on the basis of a foundation of values that i think i hope most of us share
in common and alex was saying you know i come from a political background that's true my father was
a state senator and then later united states congressman my brother mark was a u.s senator
he's currently running actually for the governor of the state of alaska which was announced last
friday uh when we were uh on the air uh thinking about what's what's coming um in fact my my other
younger brothers in the state senate uh here in alaska but the fact is coming from a background
uh a political background i think is important in the context of where we are today and i want to
mention too you know my father was a first generation american my grandparents were immigrants from
croatia uh he was born in the united states first generation american worked his butt off he couldn't
afford college for four years so he finished a four-year degree in two uh and went on to become a
teacher uh a state senator a superintendent of schools at one point uh and a congressman up
until his death and at the age of 40 um under mysterious you know circumstances that we'll
talk about maybe another time today i want to get back into some of the things we left off with
last friday on resource related issues because these are important but you know when we think
about the country and we think about the budget everybody thinks about the budget and then they
think about taxes and in the business world we would call that the profit and loss statement
or the income statement money in money out in our personal lives that's our budget money in money
out and that's what everybody talks about what they don't talk about that the globalists do not
want us talking about is the balance sheet of the country what are the assets what is what are the
assets we hold in common in this republic what do we own as americans in common the natural resources
public lands i mean our military the things our tax dollars buy all that belongs to us
but who does it serve it serves globalist interest around the world is where the policeman for the
planet that is not what our founding fathers intended that is not where we started we were to
be a light to the world an example that heathers would emulate based on their intrinsic internal
desire to have something different not to be packed down their throats by propaganda or our
propaganda or our world view but to have the respect again for the right of self determination by
people around the planet the balance sheet us 16 trillion in the hole let me tell you where
that 16 trillion is in one national asset and this comes out of a press report from bloomberg
actually and it's talking about natural resources right now we're exporting 10.7 million barrels of
oil or producing 10.7 million barrels of oil a day 2.57 are being exported where's the money
and why right now a major major issue and why an w are look it up itself it's it's the naval
it's a reserve on the north slope of Alaska next to crude obey it's projected to have 16 billion
uh barrels of oil not including the gas just one oil field and we'll we'll look at the oil basins
if they'll bring that slide up but this one area has 16 billion but billion barrels which had a
hundred dollars of barrel which wasn't very long ago that's 16 trillion dollars that we own that's
enough to cover the whole deficit one resource in Alaska and we're missing it look at the very top
of that image now this was used in the 1980 lands fights over Alaska because they locked up in 1980
when this image was made they locked up 104 million acres of public lands for preserves and parks that
nobody unless you're rich because it's the playground of the rich you can't even get there
there now the fact is those oil basins those represent only two have been in in production
in south central Alaska around anchorage and i can't point to it because i'm i'm remote but you'll
see it in the south central part of the state that cook inlet that's been developed yes indeed
that pointer is on it now you look at the very top of the state where that last couple of oil there
it's our you'll see prude obey now that is the only other field but most of what you see in orange
is on drill okay these represent billions and billions and billions of barrels of oil and
trillions of trillions of trillions of cubic feet of natural gas enough to resolve the deficit
to resolve the debt but we need to start talking about what do we own what does this country own
and how are we managing our resources and who's taking those resources most people don't realize
this either the north soap of Alaska at one time produced two million barrels of oil a day
right now we're producing approximately 600 000 barrels of oil a day going through a pipeline
that's running at one quarter of its capacity not for a lack of oil for a lack of will meanwhile
the hubs in the lower 48 state are jammed up they can't even ship the oil that we're producing
all of its bottleneck the refineries are full the export stations are full everyone is full
they're having to literally truck oil and gas out of the out of the midwest uh in low in lower
states and ports and even there it's jamming up we're going to be back after the break i want to
continue a discussion about the national balance sheet and the looting the train wreck uh that
we're in the middle of which is actually the biggest train robbery we ever had we'll be right
back you're listening to alex jones info wars dot com and i'm dr nick bank standing in today
it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original
most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcn listeners receive five percent
off ceramic filter systems using code gcn call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters
dot com that's 187799 burky health care reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable
insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the
health care system has become a challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty
health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping
neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos
you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on
the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local
stations you're listening to but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number
one best selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure
win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's
made in the us day get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha
power today living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can
be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need
to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid
rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of
heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested the water from our elixir pure gravity
filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored
to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the elixir pure raises the ph of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
you're listening to the alex jones show
news analysis reports it's the alex jones show
oh sweet dreams are made of the who am i welcome back into wars uh dot com this is dr nick begich
and i'm standing in for alex jones i want to remind uh people too uh to support alex uh this is
our last chance for the uh super summer sale free shipping and up to 50 off on your favorite products
i want to mention that uh and not forget it this is the way that alex stays on the air
there's an image up now but go to the website support alex jones this is covering brain force
plus 50 off and free shipping the real red pill plus silver bullet alpha power and a lot and a
lot more so take a look at that i don't want to forget to make sure that alex can pay the bills
here and also i want to mention my website or pulse dot com check it out under special
uh events there's a number of things there i'd like to draw your attention to some speaking
events i've got coming up um as well so that's earth pulse dot com and now i want to get back
into the meat of what we're covering today and just before the break i was talking about the
north slope and prudhoe bay now i want to put this all into some perspective when when prudhoe bay
was first uh discovered back in 1969 by atlantic richfield company um they determined that there
was about one billion barrels of oil that was the estimate now it actually so far we produced
over 13 billion barrels which even at at half the uh half half of a hundred bucks i mean it's
over 50 now it's running around 68 to 75 in that range um that's about eight trillion dollars more
or less that's been shipped off the north slope so far by multinational now up until the early
1980s half owner basically of all of those resources on the north slope was british patrolling
now what people don't know is up until the mid 80s or the early 80s the british crown
owned 25 percent of british petroleum stock in other words we were still a colony we were still
paying the crown out of the treasury out of the resources that we hold in common now they
divested in the 80s and later um later uh british petroleum wanted to sell their assets uh or actually
merge them with arco atlantic richfield which would have given them a total monopoly a foreign
company of the biggest oil field uh in history and the infrastructure that went with it unfortunately
myself two other guys we filed anti trust suits uh later our state legislate legislature the state
of california the state of oregon the state of washington filed suits we withdraw they won and
they didn't get to do it but the fact is we it's the same game today but nobody talks about the
balance sheet i want to draw people's attention to to last week's broadcast we sort of set the
foundation here go back and look at it june 1st uh of of 2018 the fourth hour of alexa show we
began to sort of shape up what does alaska have to offer the country a couple points i want to cover
again one is we are 18 percent of the land mass of the united states 18 percent yet we have only
750 000 people occupy this place when you when you think about um the size of this we have there's
more roads in the city of seattle than my whole state and yet we hold most of the treasury most
of the natural resources most of the public lands that are undeveloped and open for development in a
way that is much different than the 1880s i can assure you but when we look at the possibilities
and that's what i really want to draw people's attention to that the art of the deal is in
recognizing what you have at the table and we don't we're we're we're we're totally diverted into
talking about budgets and balance sheet and never thinking about anything else producing wealth
than the work of our labor and you know that wasn't even legal until the constitution was changed
in 1913 which made income tax legal it took a constitutional amendment to tax the labor the
labor of working men and women it wasn't just an automatic oh we can go do this you had to change
the foundation of the country to take up to a third of every hour you work and hand it off
to an elite spending it for the development of your resources for someone else this is how it's
gone 200 years the biggest train robber you need to be the robber baron you've talked about the
robber barons of the 1800s building railroads and robbing the public of resources and land everything
up nothing's changed ladies and gentlemen it is the same game and it takes aggressive different
leadership that maybe we've got the guy in the white house to make the deal a little better deal
you know and there's a lot of controversy right now because the chinese are looking at our resources
well there's a good reason we're on the pacific rim everyone on the pacific rim is interested
in alaska resources and if you look at the very top of the state and you think about where we sit
in terms of global transportation as the polar regions melt which they are no matter what man
does and i was going to get into that today but we're going to kick that over to next week because
we just don't have time and we'll get into the climate change issues a very different way of
looking at them but how it affects us economically is this happening period it can't stop it's going
to happen no matter what you want to argue about the cause that makes the north polar regions ice
free which allows alaska to be one of the shortest routes to europe with our natural resources if we
can get a rail link to alaska which we do not have we could actually get our natural resources
into the midwest through the trans canadian rail systems and the canadian rail system stretching
all the way up into northern british columbia you know these guys have their act together they build
railroads to reach resources they build pipelines to reach resources they manage them environmentally
with a lot of debate in hand just like we do to get to the right place to develop our resources
in the right way and that's what we're doing in alaska the nation needs to pay attention we have a
greater coastline than the east coast west coast and gulf coast of the united states combined i mean
looking at at what's possible right now in alaska to begin to reshape the nation we need the kind of
emphasis we put when we built the road to alaska it was in world war two could really quick us
hopping off point we were headed to drop things to lend lease over to the russians who were our
friends even the middle of their communist period to break the back of hitler you know they built a
road in a summer to alaska and yeah it wasn't much of a road i can tell you when my dad took it
about 10 years later in 1955 it was no picnic but the fact is we need transportation corridors
that's a national to be a national priority that get us the kind of corridors that can take us all
the way into interior alaska across the southern flank of the brooks range which covers the richest
mineral belt in the united states huge huge resources one of the publications uh that that i i use
and i read it's it's a it's a one of these weird ones you know for alaskans but it's this way
mining news and this is the one that's written for insiders on what's going on here 35 strategic
minerals the congress has just announced most of them are in mineable quantities in alaska
not being mine the few that are zinc as an example one zinc mine produces six percent of all the
zinc concentrate in the world the port is frozen solid half the year it's it's out of the gnome
area you know and yet six percent of the whole world annual supply comes from this one line
the tenth largest silver mine in the world is in southeast alaska we have the largest
molybdenum deposit on coastal waters it's not even being looked at we have rare earths being developed
by ukore uh in southeast in the ketchikan area of alaska this will be the first major rare earth
mine in the united states right now 90 of all rare earths come from china and they're not allowing
exports and we need them for all of the technologies that drive an economy in the 21st century
they're a time one another major project in the same area when you when you look at um yep
the red dog mine up on the screen incredible incredible deposit if you look at um what's
happening in the uh well we're headed into break we're gonna have to come back so let's talk more
about the resources the balance sheet how do we get out of this hole and stop the train wreck and
take our resources back take our nation back this is dr nick faggett standing in for alas
go and you're listening to info wars dot com
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no
better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most
potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today i want to plow into all
of this but i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear
and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i want to
thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults we've
got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well
info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase of the
products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and
their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support guaranteeing your food independence is a
crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages
having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select storeable food
you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in
amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better place to look for healthy
easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a
variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select storeable food will
help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour
kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip don't be
caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for
an affordable price with info wars life select storeable foods we can't extend this free shipping
sale much longer with our best-selling items at infowarstore.com in fact we can only run it a
few more days we're also running out of some of our best-selling items like our amazing
the tropic rainforest it's 1995 leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good it's a great deal
normally at $39.95 rainforest you've never tried it this is a great opportunity 1995 also alpha
power is 50% off if you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina focus
libido it does so many things x2 even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals
of the good halogen iodine i am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another
few days at 50% off and then after that it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of
it info wars life dot com info or store dot com or triple a 2533139 and thank you all for helping
fund the second american global revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
you're listening to the antidote for fake news it's alex jones
welcome back to info wars dot com this is dr. nick baggott standing in for alex in this fourth hour
today and i just want to say i really appreciate the opportunity to do this each each week as it's
shaping up and it gives me a chance to explore some of the areas that i think are important to
amplify those foundational issues that are all about taking our country back i mean when i think
about again the balance sheet and sort of what's happening in in alaska i want to go back to just
before the break talking about strategic minerals you know when you think about rare earths the
difficulty has been not just finding them which we we do we have we found them you know we've got
them in alaska the other thing that is important is how do you separate they're very complex the
order the chemistry on them is is extremely complex so the companies that are doing the work here
have actually developed the technologies and they've trialed those technologies piloted them
and they're now using them in a couple of other places for handling waste streams of heavy metals
and toxic materials to keep them out of the dump and back into applied technology and a couple
places are using them they piloted a program with the oil sands in canada when those oil sands are
heated and extracted from the from the rock there's a lot of other metals and and materials
in it and what happens is that material um can actually in a fluid form have the heavy metals
extracted so they're running a pilot see if they can normally get them out of the waste streams
they don't become a part of the waste but actually are used within industry they're also building
a program in the lower 48 states to actually recycle the heavy metals out of industrial
waste again by having developed the kind of technologies that make the extracted process
clean efficient and to serve the interests that this century requires when when you think about
the innovation not just in the technology but you really have to look at three things and when
i was a young kid and when i was in my teens i talked about information transportation uh and
communication systems as being the keys for the 21st century now this is 40 years ago over 40 years
ago uh and and those remain the keys for the 21st century transportation is a deficit alaska has
state-of-the-art communication we have state-of-the-art information systems we need transportation
quarters so we can move from the ports that are on the coast inland into the into the resource base
of the nation uh we need the same kind of initiative that push railroads through the west and we need
pushing through the rest of the west alaska's west uh the other the hidden 18 percent almost a fifth
of the country and most people think it's sitting off to the side of of maps in some lower position
look on a globe and where alaska sits take pride in this resource that we own uh together uh alaska
and let's think about how do we take the fiftieth state the last one in might be the big one to
bail us all out let's think about it a little differently uh in this century the image up
right now uh showing alaska you can see uh the coastline that islands that stretch ammos touching
russia and japan you know when you think about we have a 200 mile limit that surrounds alaska
you look at southeast just a small gap of canada before it touches seattle uh if you look at the
north part of alaska 700 miles from south to north and you see all that light blue in the map
those are all potential oil bases and only two of them are being developed right now
and that's in the south central part the very very small part near anchorage and then in the very
northern region of the state one of the few roads that even penetrates the state goes straight
from fairbanks north to crudo bay and it was built during the pipeline you know the pipeline
uh zeroing in another coming in close on that map which you can see now the brooks range which is
the mountain range at the top of the map and just the other side of it is the biggest oil
basin left in the united states where you're going to see billions and billions and billions of
barrels of oil found if you look um in the cost of view area um which is also on the map in the
same section on the very far end ammos to the ocean in this area is a deposit of graphite now
graphite and graphene are critical for battery technologies for modern electric vehicles alaska
that one deposit is a known deposit four and a half miles long in surface they've tested the
graphene its top quality for batteries and that's going to come online in the few years that has
enough capacity to fuel the entire graphene demand of the united states right now we import
virtually all of it so if we're going to remain competitive we are a raw resource place you know
when you think about the real factors of economic production there's four it's not cash it's not money
that's the medium between each of these four um aspects of economic production and they are
land and natural resources they are labor and they are entrepreneurship and capital equipment
that's kind of stuff that makes other stuff like shovels and factories those are the four factors
the biggest biggest thing we have right now in this country is underutilized labor in my state
40 unemployment in rural areas 40 40 the highest in the nation has been that way since i was born
here and yet we have resources that could create not just marginal jobs mining jobs pay 80 to 100
grand a year for people working underground in my state these are good jobs these are the kind of
jobs that allow families to function again not with three jobs in the household but with one
we have opportunities to build railroads to build roads and ports in a place that has the ability
to support that with our natural resources we have an opportunity that is being missed by this
nation as we debate the cash flow again who's going to pay the taxes who's going to pay the money
we're all paying enough let's look at who's taking our resources for nothing and create a
competitive contracting environment where they begin extracting our resources for us the way it's
done in a lot of the world you know these resources are not allocated yet that we haven't made deals
on yet we need a new deal a different deal a deal that puts the right weight on the nation's side
of the table and not lobbyists not multinationals who have looted and robbed this country for 200
years and continue to do so you know until this tax reform they weren't even taxed on their foreign
income and i want to talk briefly about that in the minerals and oil and gas game they're only
taxed on half of their income and this is why look it up look up depletion allowances depletion
allowances what they allow and this happened back in the early 1900s when they created the income
tax the oil gas and minerals industry were screaming bloody murder they want to pay so they put in this
little thing in the code spend there ever since for over a hundred years depletion allowances
so they get to take when they deplete the resource that we own they don't own it they lease it okay
but they get to depreciate it or deplete it and so they take the amount of field goes down
and it offsets the amount of the income they have and they can offset up to half
of their net income in other words the 20 percent tax cap for corporations but they're in the
mineral and oil and gas game it's half of that it's 10 percent domestically seven and a half percent
internationally it's like a sales tax in some parts of the country that's what they're paying
because of this law over a hundred years old it gives them an advantage i'm in the mineral
business i know how it works and i appreciate the tax advantage but i don't think it's fair for
americans i shouldn't have to set that type of an advantage i should be paying my fair share
on resources that once upon a time belonged to the nation in common in this case these these
properties were conveyed in 1904 even before income back all right but going back to the balance sheet
the stuff that is not allocated we need a new way of looking at we need a competitive contracting
environment because government's not good at running businesses we already know that but these
are just basic natural resources that need to be contracted for extraction so the maximum value
goes to the public not to private corporations that already have huge advantages tax wise and
even bigger ones international a very different game we need to reset reset the nation and not
just in the way it's being done politically right now which is creating all the consternation
that we can imagine and what i would say in the last few seconds of this broadcast today
remember where we start this conversation today remember when you look in the eyes of another
recognize the divinity in that the same divinity as is in you created in the image and likeness
of god check us out at earthpulse.com thank you for allowing me to stand in today and you're
listening to infowars.com with Alex Jones thank you for being here
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm
leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve
proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid
speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of
10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take
on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements
don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super
blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce
bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new
purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay
clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay
clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle
features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver
immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and
stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
