whisper_model_load: loading model from 'whisper.cpp/models/ggml-large.bin'
whisper_model_load: n_vocab       = 51865
whisper_model_load: n_audio_ctx   = 1500
whisper_model_load: n_audio_state = 1280
whisper_model_load: n_audio_head  = 20
whisper_model_load: n_audio_layer = 32
whisper_model_load: n_text_ctx    = 448
whisper_model_load: n_text_state  = 1280
whisper_model_load: n_text_head   = 20
whisper_model_load: n_text_layer  = 32
whisper_model_load: n_mels        = 80
whisper_model_load: f16           = 1
whisper_model_load: type          = 5
whisper_model_load: adding 1608 extra tokens
whisper_model_load: mem_required  = 4712.00 MB
whisper_model_load: ggml ctx size = 2950.97 MB
whisper_model_load: memory size   =  304.38 MB
whisper_model_load: model size    = 2950.66 MB

system_info: n_threads = 6 / 16 | AVX = 1 | AVX2 = 1 | AVX512 = 0 | NEON = 0 | F16C = 1 | FP16_VA = 0 | WASM_SIMD = 0 | BLAS = 0 |

main: processing './wav/20180614_Thu_Alex.wav' (230268343 samples, 14391.8 sec), 6 threads, 1 processors, lang = en, task = transcribe, timestamps = 1 ...


(upbeat music)
- Infowars.com is tomorrow's news.
Today, you're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
- Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is The Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones will be joining us here in just a moment.
It is Thursday, June 14th, 2018.
It is President Trump's birthday,
and it is the 34-hour broadcast spectacular
here at infowars.com/show.
We are expecting the release of the IG report
shortly as well, but before we get to that,
in case you didn't think that the Democrats
have lost their mind, here's a little more evidence for you.
- In just a few years, he'll be in school,
and Donald Trump wants to give his teacher a gun?
- More students have been killed in school shootings
in 2018 than US troops in combat operations.
We need common sense gun control, but that's not enough.
There are 310 million guns in the US
and millions of assault-style weapons.
- I'm Levi Tilleman.
Washington needs more doers and innovators.
That's why I'm running for US Congress.
I'm calling on Congress to stop talking past each other
and try something new.
Empower schools and teachers-
- So far, not too bad.
- With non-lethal self-defense tools
like this can of pepper spray.
- Wait, what?
- Pepper spray doesn't cost much,
and it can be safely stored in a brake glass
in case of emergency cabinet.
But it's powerful and won't accidentally kill a kid.
Trust me, this will stop anyone in their tracks.
(guns firing)
- Go back to the guy.
You cut away for the best part.
- It's incredibly painful.
- So there he is.
- I can't see anything.
- A Democrat candidate sprays himself.
This is in Colorado.
Can we rewind it to when he has it all over his face?
This is so absurd.
I can't even imagine whose idea this was.
- Roger Stone, you have been in politics
for a long, long time.
Have you ever seen a more ridiculous campaign ad?
- Well, the only thing worse than being wrong in politics
is being boring, and this is most certainly not boring.
It's so ridiculous that it will get media coverage.
It'll get him earned media coverage.
It's the same take their guns underlying theme.
All Democrats are running against,
but this is an underfunded guy
trying to get on television.
It's how I read it.
- So, but I kind of think,
you might actually think this is brilliant.
You think this might actually get him
the right kind of publicity he's looking for.
- Well, I don't think the idea of pepper spray
is a great idea.
What I'm talking about is the theatrics
of spraying yourself in the face
to make sure that the local news
and that market picks up his spot,
or that maybe InfoWars would even show it.
- Hey, you know what?
I think it's funny that they don't want you
to have the right to protect yourself.
I think it's funny that they demonize the fact
that this country has guns to protect itself
in a Second Amendment.
That's what's kept it free.
But then I just think it's crazy
that a guy would pepper spray himself in the face
for a campaign ad, but I guess it was effective.
He gets the views he wants.
We'll see if it works out for him,
but I just think this is more evidence
of the Democrats just totally losing their minds,
and they just don't know what to do anymore.
- Well, let's check tomorrow and see on YouTube
how many views he's got.
I think that'll tell you the reason he did this.
But I don't know, I feel like he,
maybe he's just in it for YouTube views,
but if you're in it to win an election,
I don't know if this is the way to go.
I guess this is the new thing.
Can you torture yourself into a congressional seat?
- I don't know what the registration looks like
in the district that he's running in.
It's a publicity stunt,
and maybe it will appeal to leftists.
I think he gets a lot of views out of it.
I'm not sure he gets a lot of votes out of it.
- All right, well, we start the show
a little lighthearted today,
but we do have a lot of important news to cover.
You've got a new New York attorney general
who is trying to shut down the Trump Foundation.
This is Barbara Underwood.
Underwood, that's from House of Cards.
This is the replacement Eric Schneiderman.
It is now Barbara Schneiderwoman.
But you notice how after Schneiderman was out,
Weinstein fell, and a lot of other pieces fell in New York.
I wonder if Schneiderman had anything to do with that.
We'll be right back on the other side.
Don't go anywhere.
(upbeat music)
- Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut
with Prebiotic Fiber by InfoWars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive
and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated Prebiotic Fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic Fiber is soluble fiber
that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients,
and even support your immune system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic
and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap Prebiotic Fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
(dramatic music)
- Crashing through the lies and disinformation,
it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music)
- It's Thursday, June 14th, 2018.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
Owen Schroeder, Roger Stone in studio.
Alex will be in studio very shortly.
We've got Scott Adams lined up.
He is going to be joining us.
Shiva Ayyadurai has breaking news at one o'clock central,
and then Doug Hagman takes over the fourth hour.
I'm sure he's got his feelers out there
as far as the IG report is concerned
about what to expect coming out of that.
Of course, Roger, we were talking about
before the show today,
what we expect to see from the IG report
is going to be more of what we already know,
and that's that the Hillary Clinton email investigation
was rigged, was cooked, and James Comey was the one
behind it, but maybe, maybe not, do we find out
if anybody else from the Obama administration
is behind that, but on the heels of this release,
is that what you're expecting?
Is that what you think we already know, though,
is gonna come out?
- We know that James Comey wrote his report
two months before he completed the investigation,
so this was cooked from the beginning.
We know that he reopened the investigation
into Hillary's emails only because he knew
the New York Police Department had just uncovered
650,000 emails on Huma Abedin,
Hillary's right-hand woman, on her server,
and therefore, if he didn't act,
the New York Police Department would,
so he kind of had no choice, but this is not gonna speak
to some of the larger questions, for example,
the illegal and unconstitutional use of FISA warrants,
the infiltration of the Trump campaign with FBI spies.
It just shows you how much the scandal has moved on
from the original questions.
This inspector general has a lot on his plate
that he has to look into, plus, remember,
we still have that US attorney in Utah, Huber,
who's supposed to be looking into the FISA abuses,
and we have no report yet from him.
- Well, and right now, the Department of Justice is,
and I guess the FISA courts are not releasing
those documents as far as the FISA warrants were concerned,
and as far as the FBI spies were concerned
or when that started, they're not releasing those
to Devin Nunes, he's made dozens of requests,
they're not releasing those to the intelligence committees
in the House or the Senate, even though
they've made requests, so right now,
they're getting denied access to those documents,
which would push that investigation further
as to the origins of the spies in the Trump campaign
and the FISA warrants, but to come back to the IG report,
I guess the one thing I'm hoping could come from this,
and I don't think, maybe we learn something new from it,
maybe we don't, however, if it becomes undeniable fact
and we have a Justice Department that's willing to act,
do you believe that they would have a new investigation
into Hillary Clinton's emails and the server
and perhaps even prosecute her?
- I think it's gonna depend on what else is there
that we don't know, you notice that Jeff Sessions,
the Attorney General, kind of laid the predicate
by saying, now, if we find that other people
did things wrong, we're gonna have no problem firing them.
Seems to me like he knows something,
so until we see what we have, I don't think we can tell
what the political impact of it will be.
At the end of the day, I still think
it is the larger questions that Nunes is trying to get into
that are more important, and liberals keep telling us,
oh, there's gonna be a constitutional crisis.
Well, they're right, that's it right there.
When a co-equal branch of government
is being denied information
by a politicized Justice Department,
there's your constitutional crisis.
- Here's a constitutional crisis.
When you have, is that, I'm sorry,
I just got distracted, of Eric Cartman,
but I guess Jeff Sessions on the screen there,
sorry about that.
(clears throat)
Here's a constitutional crisis to me, Roger.
The DOJ, the FBI, the CIA, the NSA
are not in the Constitution,
and they're running this country under Obama.
They're spying on people illegally under Obama,
and years before that, too, but we just have this case,
and we have the facts on it now.
So that's a constitutional crisis to me,
but they don't wanna talk about that.
Meanwhile, though, we move over to another track here.
You've got Robert Mueller.
You've got Robert Mueller who indicts the Russians.
They show up to court.
He refuses discovery.
He refuses to show up in court.
Then he says, well, I can't show up yet
because I'm still building a case against them.
They're still meddling.
Well, that doesn't make sense.
Anyone would tell you, you don't indict someone
till you have all the evidence.
So why would he be still gathering evidence
after the indictment?
Then you have the Cohen story, Roger,
which I don't understand.
Why would Michael Cohen,
who they're saying is going to flip,
that's the new narrative,
Cohen's gonna flip on Trump.
Well, then why would he be looking for legal counsel?
That doesn't make sense.
You wouldn't be looking for legal counsel
if you were going to flip.
- Let's take these one at a time.
On the question of Cohen,
this is a media fable that he's gonna flip.
That's like a prognostication.
He has said nothing of the kind.
I saw Mayor Giuliani on with Laura Ingram,
an excellent interview in which he said,
look, there's nothing that Michael Cohen could say
that the president fears.
We don't think that he has animosity towards the president.
So this is, again, the media jumping way ahead.
- And now what about Mueller?
Why isn't Mueller showing up in court?
And why is there no outrage
that Mueller is obstructing justice?
- It's really extraordinary.
He clearly never expected the Russians to show up for trial.
- None of us did.
- Right, so--
- The Russians are beating everyone right now.
- So he charged the Russians to get a headline
because he had no Russian interference in the election
to point to, it was hurting his public relations image.
Now, it is a fundamental bedrock principle
of American jurisprudence that people who are charged
be allowed to see the evidence against them.
And he doesn't want to produce it.
Perhaps that's because he doesn't have it.
And as you point out, if the investigation is ongoing,
then why did he already bring the indictments?
No, I think that this is why a new poll two days ago
shows that his disapproval has now hit 53.
It was 26 a year ago.
I think people are fed up with the political partisan nature
of this investigation and the fact that he just keeps
dragging it out without any evidence of Russian collusion.
- And it's costing us millions of dollars now,
which, by the way, the White House has just extended
$6.6 million back to the White Helmets in Syria.
That got announced today as well.
This is something I don't support.
So we report the things that happen here at InfoWars,
whether we like them or not.
But I don't know, guys, if you want to find that story.
I forgot to print that out.
Just real quick and some other news.
The new AG in New York, Underwood,
is trying to shut down the Trump Foundation.
They've become totally unhinged.
If you threaten to kill Senator Sanders or Senator Harris,
the Democrats, then you get charged.
But if you threaten to kill Trump or Ajit Pai or Mike Pence
or anybody like that, Dinesh D'Souza, that's okay.
Kim Kardashian West pushes for White House
more drug sentence commutations.
Well, maybe that would work if Obama wasn't blackballing
in negotiations and conversations and talks
between other people that want prison reform
and President Trump.
That's Obama behind that.
But in the meantime, before we get to the next segment,
before Alex Jones joins us, ladies and gentlemen,
we have huge specials happening right now.
Part of the Fall of the Deep State 34-hour special
at Infowarsstore.com.
Free shipping store-wide.
That's extended for this week special, this 34-hour special.
And you have 50% off some of the top-selling products,
such as Brain Force Plus is 50% off right now.
This is a top-selling product at Infowarsstore.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus, 50% off.
Silver Bullet is 50% off.
Alpha Power is 50% off.
Super Male and Super Female Vitality are both 50% off.
DNA Force Plus, 50% off.
The list goes on and on and on.
But if you're looking for huge savings,
even thousands of dollars worth of savings,
Infowars Life Select, one-year, six-month,
and three-month emergency food supply is 50% off right now
at Infowarsstore.com, plus free shipping.
Plus free shipping.
You're talking about thousands of dollars in savings
if you're trying to get emergency food for your family.
50% off free shipping at Infowarsstore.com.
And I have to commend Roger Stone,
whose new book, "Stone's Rules,"
is also at Infowarsstore.com.
A great Father's Day gift,
which is right around the corner, Roger.
- And I mailed your father his just the other day.
- And I know that he is looking forward to that delivery.
So we will be back on the other side.
News clips, more news, and Alex Jones joining us shortly.
Owen Troyer, Roger Stone in studio.
Don't go anywhere.
(upbeat music)
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
- If you like alkaline water or know someone that does,
you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical-grade stainless steel,
the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better,
and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable
to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
- You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Shipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written
what I think is the best ex-mose on the shadow government
ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis,
and our government is now being run and ruled
by a shadow government.
- We gotta get this out,
because just 'cause you're awake, folks,
doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read,
to give to the library, to give to the church.
Get 'em right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
- If you or anyone you love has been diagnosed
with lung cancer, asbestosis, or mesothelioma,
your diagnosis may be the result of job-related exposure
to asbestos, and you may be entitled to compensation.
Over 30 billion in trusts have been set aside
for individuals who have been affected by asbestos exposure.
How do you protect your rights
and get the compensation you deserve?
Call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG.
Capital Legal Group is one of the nation's resources
for settlement of lung cancer and mesothelioma cases.
Law firms have successfully recovered over $2.7 billion
for their clients in all 50 states,
and claims have been paid in as little as 60 days.
If you or a family member were diagnosed
with lung cancer, asbestosis, or mesothelioma,
call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG.
We'll open a no-cost case review on your behalf.
A history of tobacco use or cigarette smoking
will not disqualify your case.
Visit 800-400-LUNG.com or call 800-400-LUNG.
Call 800-400-5864 now.
That's 800-400-LUNG.
(alarm beeping)
- One of the most incredible cups of coffee
can be found in the high mountains of Southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years
perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques
and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you
with our immune support
and Wake Up America Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired
with the natural fertility of the land
to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals
used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor
with great depth to give you
just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier
with the Immune Support Blend.
Infused with a powerful blend to support
your immune response and stamina,
it's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend Coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarsstore.com.
- Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the InfoWar to fight the globalists
and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US
to create the strongest, most concentrated,
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula
that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is gonna end up being
the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com
'cause it works so well.
This is a gift you wanna give yourself
and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWar
so it's a total, absolute, sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available
at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports,
it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
- You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
(upbeat music)
Live from the InfoWars.com studios,
you're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
- All right, we've got a lot to talk about here.
Alex Jones is gonna be joining us here shortly.
Roger and I were speaking during the break.
You've got this new attorney general in New York.
She's trying to shut down the Trump administration,
Barbara Underwood.
Imagine my shock, Roger, not only is this a woman
that worked for Bill Clinton and George Bush,
but she's a graduate of Harvard Law,
just like the rest of them. - I'm surprised.
- I know, imagine my shock.
- Well, we recognize that this woman was selected
by the legislature for an appointment that nobody wanted
'cause everyone understood that the imprimatur
of being an elected state official in New York State
would be poison if you wanted to run for this office.
This investigation into the Trump Foundation
was cooked up under Eric Schneiderman,
who was trying to use his attacks on Trump
to build the basis for a gubernatorial campaign of his own.
And how ironic that she announces this
at the exact same time that the inspector general's report
is being released.
How coincidental.
This is just pure, raw politics.
- Well, and it's just amazing to me
that the Trump Foundation now is the target
of an investigation, but the Clinton Foundation,
which has been operating for decades,
who knows where these funds are going?
I mean, who knows what happens to all that money
for the Haitians?
We do know where Chelsea Clinton Hubbell
got her wedding dress, thanks to your donations,
but no investigation into that, Roger.
- Well, in fact, Haitian American groups
have repeatedly asked the New York Attorney General
to look into the activities of the Clinton Foundation
in Haiti, and they have refused,
because it's not politically correct.
But if you can bash Donald Trump and his children
and his family, even though his foundation gave out
essentially more money than they took in
with the president himself subsidizing it,
no, that's politically perfect.
- Well, they were so broke, though, Roger.
I mean, they both said it, they were broke
when they left the White House.
In fact, they were so broke that they had to steal
the silverware and the furniture
right from the White House grounds.
- And were forced to return it,
which all of which you can read a course about
in the Clinton's war on women.
It's amazing to me the way the Clintons
want to relitigate everything from the beginning.
Oh, you know, Monica, that's about infidelity
and indiscretion.
No, it isn't.
The issue here is rape, violence against women.
It's outrageous that Juanita Broderick's book
suddenly disappears from Kindle,
can no longer be purchased.
The coverup just continues here,
and they want to keep redefining this again and again
as if the American people didn't figure it out
in the last election.
- Well, I think we're breaking their backs now,
because we just did the protest of Bill Clinton here
where we had dozens of people outside protesting.
We had five infiltrators that got into the event
that shouted down Bill Clinton.
You had another gentleman do it in Philadelphia.
I think Clinton's last book tour date is actually today.
I'm not sure where he is.
But I think that he's really starting to break.
Listen to this clip, Roger.
This is pretty incredible that Bill Clinton
would admit this.
Again, I think it's just a sign
that he really is breaking down.
Listen to what Bill Clinton says on the PBS NewsHour.
- I think the norms have really changed
in terms of what you can do to somebody against their will,
how much you can crowd their space,
make them miserable at work.
You don't have to physically assault somebody
to make them uncomfortable at work or at home
or in their utter, just walking around.
- I mean, what is that?
- That's incredible.
So in other words, it used to be okay to assault women,
but today it's not?
Is that what he's saying?
Look, this is a guy who bit through the upper lip
of his victims.
This is a guy who forced himself, exposed himself
and raped multiple women.
And he keeps trying to redefine it for us.
Like just because they were able to contain it in the '80s,
it cannot be contained anymore.
And no, attitudes have not changed.
Rape was wrong then, rape is wrong now.
- It's incredible that Hollywood and the Democrats,
and well, okay, you look at the Democrats
and you can really just point out Bill Clinton.
I mean, 'cause they protected him for so long.
The list can go on, there's Republicans on that too.
But the Democrats are the ones that virtue signal for women.
Hollywood is the group that virtue signals for women.
All the me too originates in Hollywood
and at Bill Clinton's Oval Office, Roger.
I mean, how do these people get away with it?
And then they actually get people to go pay
hundreds of dollars to see Bill Clinton speak.
- What's the amazing thing is that Democrats must cringe
every time they see one of the Clintons
approach a TV camera.
They just wish they would ride off into the sunset
with their stolen money.
But obviously it's not enough.
I mean, Bill is estimated to be worth
somewhere around $300 million.
His son, Danny Williams, works in a meat packing plant
by day and at a 7-Eleven at night
to make ends meet for his five children,
while his father is worth $300 million.
- That we know of.
- These people have no shame.
- Well, and Danny Williams is actually gonna be joining me
on the war room and you later on the war room as well,
3 to 6 p.m. Central here.
And we're gonna celebrate Father's Day.
We're gonna see if Bill Clinton is ready
to celebrate Father's Day with his son, Danny Williams.
Really, Bill Clinton's only offspring that we know of.
I mean, Chelsea Hubble, that doesn't really count.
- I really think if nothing else,
Bill Clinton may have learned this week
that it's time for him to come off the circuit.
I suspect he wakes up every morning and wonders,
gee, I wonder where Laura Loomer is today.
I don't think he can pull this off anymore.
It's just not working.
And his weak denials, defenses are pathetic.
- Well, he did have to cancel
at least one of his book tour events.
I'm not sure if it was more than that,
but he did have to cancel at least one.
Meanwhile, though, the Democrats
are saying it's time for Obama
to return from the sidelines.
But see, I think Obama, unlike the Clintons,
is actually a little more savvy now,
and he realizes that he is much better off behind the scenes,
much better off not showing his face,
not making public comment,
because he actually is under so much scrutiny
for all the illegality and unethics
that happened in his administration.
- The obvious question regarding the dossier
that was used, a fabricated dossier
that was used to rationalize the surveillance
of the Republican candidate for president,
a question that is raised
by Peter Stroke's text message is simple.
What did the president know, and when did he know it?
Sooner or later, he ought to be required
to sit before Congress under oath and answer that question.
It looks to me like the old Italian saying,
a fish rots from the head,
and it looks to me like he has culpability
in the biggest political scandal in American history,
something that makes Watergate
look like a second-rate burglary.
- And hopefully this all makes headway sometime,
and the president addresses this with,
I think, legal, active,
something needs to happen to these people,
whether it's somebody going to jail,
whether it's at least starting with a testimony under oath.
I mean, that would be nice
if they could just get somebody to testify under oath
about what truly started the spying onto the Trump campaign,
because they admit that that happened now, Roger,
so they can't put that cat back in the bag.
As many different terms that they wanna use,
oh, it was just an intelligence resource,
oh, that was just an officer,
oh, he was helping Trump, give me a break,
give me a break, nobody is buying that.
So we'll see if it all comes out,
but the Inspector General report is set to launch soon,
and it will most likely show how James Comey was,
well, let's just say not behaving fairly.
- I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
- For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
- Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck,
or back, or shoulder.
- And the best relief for that pain
is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians
said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain
is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality,
can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating
on both Amazon and Etsy.
- Why take another pill?
- Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone
and got rid of the neck pain.
- Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer
can take its toll on your body.
- Our homegrown small business
tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products
with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
- Staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWars Life has created a powerful new addition
to the Super Blue line.
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce,
and 16 ounce bottles,
Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients,
Immune Gargle features SilverSol NanoSilver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy
with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
- Guaranteeing your food independence
is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters,
or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select Storable Food,
you can make sure you and your family
are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts
ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy,
easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as Traveler Stew,
Homestyle Potato Soup, and a variety of other meals
for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select Storable Food
will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go,
and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need.
For an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select
Storable Foods.
- Living in Volcano may sound more dramatic
than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater,
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles,
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water
from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels
within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure
raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash
and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly,
a good water filtration system will purify it.
- You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
(whooshing)
(upbeat music)
- You found it, the tip of the spear.
It is the Alex Jones Show with Owen Troyer.
(upbeat music)
- So Trump has had some obstacles
in trying to have this summit with Kim Jong-un.
Now, the first obstacle was John Bolton.
Now, we're not sure.
It's been speculated that John Bolton
was playing bad cop to get the negotiations
to a certain point, and then he backed off,
and then Trump came in and got the summit back on.
Why was John Bolton saying that we were gonna use
the Libyan model?
Was he trying to sabotage the deal?
Was he playing bad cop?
Was it just bad structure of sentence?
I don't know.
That happens.
And so then you have Lindsey Graham
just the day before the summit saying that,
basically, if Kim doesn't denuclearize,
I think he said we were going to go
with the Libyan model again.
I'm not sure exactly, but the point is,
you had Bolton that didn't really seem to help it,
and then you had Lindsey Graham
that didn't really seem to help it.
So this is how Rand Paul responded to that.
Let's go to clip 14 first.
This is Rand Paul responding on Fox News
to what Bolton potentially did to the deal.
- The neocons would never offer any carrot
because they're all about the stick,
and they want everybody to just kneel down and behave.
- But one of those neocons, Senator, is at the table.
John Bolton was at the table.
I'm sure the president had that by design.
Of course, Mike Pompeo was there as well,
and others were there.
But why do you think he did that?
Because, of course, the North Koreans
were apoplectic over his Libya comments,
as you alluded to, and yet there he was.
What did you make of it?
- My hope is that he was at the children's table
and that he wasn't influencing discussion among adults.
- I think he was at the main table.
- That's a pretty, kind of a bit of a jab there
to John Bolton from Rand Paul, Roger.
- What's really amazing here, though, Owen,
is the way liberals would like these negotiations
to fall apart because they're conducted by Donald Trump.
This reminds me of, in President Nixon's second term,
he reached a historic SALT agreement,
Strategic Arms Limitation Agreement.
Liberals, you would have thought,
would have been happy about that,
but they didn't like it 'cause Nixon did it.
It's the same thing here.
This is the art of the deal.
Trump's been very cautious from the beginning.
He always said, "Maybe we'll have a deal, maybe we won't.
"Sure, it'd be great if we did,
"but if we don't, that's okay, too."
He also carefully said,
"This isn't all gonna happen in one meeting.
"This is a process.
"This guy is a master negotiator,
"and he will get his way on this, but he's also no sucker.
"We're not gonna sign something
"where they're gonna evade their responsibilities."
So the old Reagan trust but verify,
I think, will be the watchword in this deal
in the final analysis.
- Well, and then that's an amazing,
I don't know what show this was on.
I guess that hack comedian that hacked it up
at the Correspondents' Dinner, they did a poll.
Are you sort of hoping we don't get peace with North Korea
so you wouldn't have to give Trump credit?
71% say yes.
Yeah, that's the thing.
Their hatred for Trump is so deep-seated
that they'd rather,
it's the whole cut off your nose to spite your face.
Michelle Wolf is this hack's name.
We'll just call her the Wolf.
So the Wolf has a poll, and people say,
yeah, they don't want peace with North Korea
'cause then they have to give Trump credit,
again, to cut off your nose to spite your face.
But Roger, let's not recall.
I mean, you go back, what were the liberals saying?
Oh, Trump's gonna start a war.
He's so bad.
Why is Trump trying to start a war?
Why is Trump saying this to North Korea?
Why is he doing this to North Korea?
He's so bad, he's gonna start war.
And they were mad that Trump wasn't gonna get peace done
with North Korea.
Oh, then he has the summit.
He's the first president to meet with North Korea.
Now he's moving towards peace, and what do they say?
Oh, how dare he meet with North Korea?
How dare he meet with the evil Kim Jong-un?
How dare he get peace?
It's Trump derangement syndrome.
Of all people, you would think liberals would be happy
about the denuclearization and the peace process.
That used to be, what was it, '70s and '80s, Roger,
when denuclearization was number one
on the Democrat platform?
Exactly, the nuclear freeze.
Remember, that was their big thing.
Now, Trump very skillfully does
what three previous presidents could not do.
The saber-rattling that they all denounced
is what gets them to the table,
and he's on the cusp of a historic peace deal,
and they can't stand it because it's Donald Trump,
just because it's Donald Trump.
- Now let's go to Rand Paul responding to Lindsey Graham
and his statements that could have perhaps been an obstacle
to the Trump-Kim summit.
- The president hasn't made any military threats
going into the summit, as you know,
but Senator Lindsey Graham, your colleague,
he wants an authorization for the use of military force
in case the talks fail.
Do you think President Trump has taken the military option
off the table, and would you vote for such an authorization
for the use of military force? - That was the night
before the summit that Graham said that.
- Absolutely not.
Lindsey Graham is a danger to the country
by even proposing ideas like authorizing war with Korea.
My goodness.
So that should be something that is seen as naive
and seen as something that really serious people
shouldn't even really be discussing.
- You're calling a fellow Republican senator
a danger to the country?
I want you to elaborate.
- Well, if you've watched over time,
I think what you've seen from Lindsey Graham
is basically a naive worldview
where he believes that war is always the answer,
and that also means that expenditures for war
are always the answer, and so I think that's bankrupting us
as a country, but it's also gotten us involved
in dozens and dozens of war where it's not really clear
what the American interest is in those wars,
and I think sometimes the reaction to our involvement
in those wars has actually been worse
than had we not been involved at all.
- There's Rand Paul, a good man, a purist,
and I think that's what keeps him out
of any serious presidential election campaign,
but I think he's right.
I think he's right about what he said about Lindsey Graham.
I think he was right in his response to John Bolton,
and again, you just wonder, Roger, though,
when looking at this and saying, where are the Democrats?
Where are the Democrats pushing back against Lindsey Graham?
You don't even get to hear the mouthpiece
from a Democrat party saying, wow, Lindsey Graham,
why would you say that?
- Does anyone in their right mind really think
Donald Trump is gonna let down his guard
in the middle of these negotiations?
There's zero chance.
I have to admit, I have really come to admire Rand Paul
as a man of principle.
If I had to match my politics with any member of the US Senate
I think my politics most closely mirror his.
He's a conservative with a libertarian tinge,
deeply suspicious of the deep state
and the deep state's war machine.
I think I agree with everything he just said.
- And again, I wish, and you know how this goes, Roger.
I mean, it's really hard for a purist like Rand Paul
to get through in a presidential election
when being a purist, unfortunately,
separates so many people from your campaign
that they don't end up voting for you.
But perhaps, like you said, politically,
this is probably the guy who matches up
with our political leanings the most,
but for this last election,
we needed a wrecking ball and that was President Trump
and he's, for the most part, delivered so far.
Before we go to the next break
and we're gonna be joined by Alex Jones,
I believe, in the next segment,
look at this story out of the DFW CBS Local.
Brain-eating amoeba found in Louisiana water system.
A potentially deadly brain-eating amoeba
has been found again in Louisiana.
Independent testing returned positive results
for nalleria folari, sorry, I'm totally butchering that,
which causes fatal brain swelling and tissue destruction.
And so they found this in the Louisiana water system.
The third time since 2015, this potentially deadly organism
has been found in the state's water system.
And this is why we sell water filters.
And it's amazing that people don't understand this.
And they say, look at InfoWars
telling you there's chemicals in the water.
Look at InfoWars reporting on the potential bacteria
in the water.
Okay, well, that's just a fact.
We don't make that up.
And then guess what?
We want filtered water too.
So when you see a story like this,
brain-eating amoeba found in Louisiana water system,
your first reaction, if you haven't done it already,
is to go to InfoWarsStore.com and order a water filter.
These are the best water filters for the price point
that you can find.
There is the AlexaPure water filtration system right there
for your home.
If you aren't filtering your water, ladies and gentlemen,
you are crazy.
You have no idea the chemicals, the bacteria,
everything that's in that water,
not just the stuff that they add intentionally
like the fluorosilicic acid,
but the runoff from the big pharmaceutical companies,
the brain-eating amoebas, the lead.
Filter your water, ladies and gentlemen.
InfoWarsStore.com has the best water filters
and there's free shipping right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
Free shipping, get your water filter today.
Alex Jones on the other side.
- Our team is always looking for new ways
to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version
of a fan favorite formula, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful
Pregnenolone formula.
Now with an added energy boost.
Now you can support your heart, brain, and aging process
with an added natural energy boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients
like green tea extract, yerba mate leaf extract, and more.
Paired with the powerful ingredients
in the original Real Red Pill formula,
the Real Red Pill has just what you need
to support your body while getting the pick-me-up
to get you through the day.
The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment
into the future of your mind and body.
Don't miss out on the all new upgrade
to your favorite product.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and get
the Real Red Pill Plus today.
Get Real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
- As the years go by, it gets harder and harder
to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfoWars Life created
the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion formula.
The new platinum standard
of advanced multivitamin formulation,
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects and give your body the tools
it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed
to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high-quality ingredients,
perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded
with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs
in a great tasting, natural, and affordable drink mix
with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today.
Available at InfoWarsStore.com.
- Patrick in the great nation of Australia.
You're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for calling.
- I've been following you since I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when InfoWars and Prison Planet,
it was just blue text on a white screen,
and I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet,
and I thought it was pretty cool,
and read all the books, and seen all the DVDs,
and followed all your guests,
and I've been using your products
since the first iteration of Survival Shield,
and since then, I'm on the X2,
the Super Male Vitality, the Caveman,
the Real Red Pill, Micro ZX, Body, it's all amazing.
- Thank you, brother.
- Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much,
it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit,
and it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God,
but the more you chase God,
and I wanted to say that it's an honor
to stand side-by-side with you, the crew,
and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
- The scientists at InfoWars Life
have created a powerful formula
for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with BOD-EASE.
BOD-EASE contains one of the most potent forms
of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years,
and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well-known in traditional medicine
for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus piperine from black pepper
makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function,
immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store
only contains one to 5% of active ingredients,
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95%
of the active ingredients.
BOD-EASE combines turmeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try BOD-EASE today at InfoWarsLife.com,
or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
(dramatic music)
Live from the InfoWars.com studios,
you're listening to The Alex Jones Show,
and now your host, Owen Troyer.
- Roger and I are talking here during the break.
There's a Tucker Carlson clip, we may go to this,
saying if you don't like the direction of the country,
in fact, let's just roll to this now.
Let's go to this Tucker Carlson clip, clip eight,
from last night, talking about people complaining
about the direction of the country.
- Well, have more children.
I mean, I grew up in a world where it was considered
embarrassing to have more than two children.
I don't think that's the case now among middle class,
upper middle class people, but it was.
And having kids is like, first of all,
it's the most rewarding, greatest,
most fun thing you can do.
But it's also the most profound thing.
Even if you don't like the direction of the country,
have children, raise them the way that you want,
consistent with your beliefs.
I mean, it seems like all the answers are basic,
nature-based answers, in my opinion, to everything.
And that's the most basic of all,
have more kids, raise decent children.
- Tucker, don't give them any ideas.
These people are already indoctrinating our children.
We don't need them bringing up brainwashed minions
intentionally into this world, Tucker.
I understand where Tucker's coming from here,
but let's not give these people any ideas.
These are the most hateful, brainwashed radicals here
that hate their own prosperity.
I don't think we need them to procreate here, Roger.
- You know, this is why Tucker Carlson's ratings
are really soaring on Fox, 'cause he is a truth teller.
I know Tucker's son, Buckley, a fine young man.
I'm honored that he wrote the introduction
for my book, "Stone Rules," which you can get
at the Infowars.com store now at a special price.
And I think he's exactly right.
What we're finding is, even as you pointed out,
Susan Rice's offspring is a conservative.
We should not assume that children being brought
into the world will grow up like their parents.
It's not necessarily true.
- Interesting, an interesting point
that you just posed there, yeah,
because you wouldn't have thought it,
but yeah, Susan Rice's son is apparently
a big-time conservative, Stanford University graduate,
unlike his mother.
But I wonder if they understand
what Tucker is even talking about there.
'Cause I feel like the average liberal
that complains about the direction the country is going
wants the state to raise the child.
And so they still won't even understand,
like he's saying, like, have children.
What he's saying is, you know, put forth the effort
to raise children the right way
to create the world that you wanna see.
I'm not even sure if they'll understand that message.
- No, what he's saying is inculcate in your children
the values that you think are important
so they can continue the fight for a free country.
I think that's what he's saying.
- What is this bar graph you guys have pulled up here?
Mean of number of children think of self
as liberal or conservative.
So you're saying this is how old,
I'm trying to figure this out here,
the nature of this bar graph that they're showing.
Oh, okay, so conservatives just have more children.
Well, that doesn't surprise me at all.
I'm not surprised by that.
- And that's a good, that portends good things
for the future.
- Yes, indeed.
- Think of all those votes.
- Because, (laughs)
see, that's how a conservative thinks about getting votes,
is having children.
A liberal thinks about getting votes by opening the border
and by having criminals vote.
- I follow Maggie Haberman in the New York Time
on her Instagram feed, and she's got adorable children.
And I always put a comment saying,
"Future young Republicans, drives her crazy."
- Oh, I'm sure it does.
But that's the thing is, again,
people that listen to Tucker's show
understand what he's saying,
and that's that you have kids,
you raise them to be conservative,
not if you have kids, you have the state raise them
to be liberals, or beyond that,
you have the state raise them to be dependent.
That's what it really is.
The Democrats want you dependent on the welfare,
dependent on the food stamps,
dependent on them to deliver it to you,
as opposed to a conservative message,
which is, no, you need to be independent
so that you can provide that for yourself,
so that you can provide that for your family.
You were actually saying, too,
that you believe you're seeing some polls now
that are indicating that African American youth
are the approval for Trump amongst that,
or the support for Trump amongst that demographic is soaring.
You think that has to do with the Dennis Rodman,
the Kanye West?
- Particularly among young African males.
Now, will they vote?
Are they voters?
That's an interesting question,
but there's clearly a shift going on.
That's why the ferocious attack on Kanye.
That's why the ferocious attack on Dennis Rodman.
People are coming off the plantation,
and the Democratic left establishment
doesn't like free thinking.
They don't like the idea
that these people can think for themselves.
- And what does that typically result in?
They leave the Democrat party.
Now, you've got the senator from Tennessee,
Bob Corker, running around.
This is the same guy that got booed
at Trump's rally in Tennessee.
Bob Corker introduced Trump, got booed.
Or no, no, no, I think it was actually Trump that maybe,
I don't remember if Trump mentioned Bob Corker's name
and they booed him,
or if Corker came up to introduce Trump and they booed him.
Either way, they booed Corker.
It's comments like this from Bob Corker on CNN,
which is why he gets booed by his own state.
- You got a bunch of great-haired old guys
that had their cult that controlled Washington for decades.
Bob Corker was one of those.
And people started realizing that Bob Corker was a fraud.
He wasn't a real conservative.
He wasn't doing what he promised.
- So this is actually Ben Ferguson saying,
"You know what, pull this down.
"I misunderstood the clip here.
"This is my mistake.
"I misunderstood the clip, but here's the thing.
"This narrative is actually going around
"that Trump voters are in a cult."
I bet you could plug that into SEO right now,
and you'll see that there's multiple people saying
that Trump supporters are in a cult.
They're the, this is amazing, Roger.
Everything they say about us, it's them.
They're the ones that colluded with Russia.
They're the ones that are racist.
They're the ones that are in a cult.
- Well, in this case, there are certain established
Republicans who don't understand that Trumpism
is larger than the Republican Party.
And in every one of their states, believe me,
Donald Trump is more popular in Tennessee
than Robert Corker is in Tennessee.
And this is also true with Ben Sasse
in Nebraska, for example.
So every Republican president has remade the party
in their own image, Lincoln, Eisenhower, Reagan, and so on.
And so it is true with Trump.
So what Corker is really complaining about
is the fact that Trump is more popular than he is,
and that his, and then that his establishment colleagues are.
- So the crew just found it.
It was Trump who mentioned Bob Corker.
They all booed.
And Bob Corker did say the GOP
is becoming cult-like under Trump.
You know, Roger, here's what I think one of the problems is,
or one of the, it's like, there's such a disdain
and hatred for the Republican Party,
not just amongst the left and Democrats, which, okay,
but there's also a disdain for the Republican Party
amongst many centrists.
And I think it's because they see the R behind Trump's name,
they have this distaste for Donald Trump,
but they don't understand,
he ran under the Republican Party
because he understood that was the track
to get into the White House.
He didn't run as a Republican
because he's a member of the Republican Party.
He ran as a Republican because he saw
that that's where the dominoes were aligned to fall
by getting the Republican nomination
and winning as a Republican.
- He correctly figured out in 2000
when I was trying to convince him to run for president
as the Reform Party candidate
that you could only get elected president
as one of the nominees of the two major parties.
Secondarily, though, if you look at the results
of the election in Wisconsin, in Michigan,
in Pennsylvania, and Ohio,
you will see that he was able to outperform Mitt Romney
and John McCain before him
because he's had this ability to reach
beyond the Republican Party.
That's building a new coalition.
And if he continues on the current track
of economic prosperity and peace abroad,
you're gonna have whole new realignment,
a whole new coalition.
Choosing the Second Amendment issue
as a centerpiece for 2018
is one of the biggest mistakes the Democrats can make
because it gets us beyond country club Republicans.
Many Second Amendment supporters are not Republicans.
They're Democrats.
They're blue collar, working class Democrats
or independents who will vote with us on that key issue.
- Well, don't you feel like that is just a path
that they've chosen to go down
because they're starting to realize here
as the midterms approach that the hate Trump message,
the hate Trump campaign is not going to lead to victory.
So they're falling back on the next best thing for them,
which is to attack the Second Amendment and demonize guns.
Don't you think that might have something to do with this?
- Well, look, I think they wanna take away our guns
because what they really wanna do
is take away our First Amendment rights.
What they really wanna do is kneecap us on the internet,
censor us, take us off YouTube, take us off Facebook.
This is the war that's being waged on InfoWars
even as we speak.
And they know it'll be a lot easier
if they can remove people's Second Amendment rights.
- And this is why your support at infowarestore.com
is so important.
And this is why we're doing a 34-hour broadcast
spectacular right now.
It's gonna go all the way through till tomorrow at 6 p.m.,
the conclusion of the War Room,
which is hosted by myself and Roger Stone.
But on the other side,
Alex Jones is going to be joining us,
making his debut on this 34-hour broadcast spectacular.
The release of the IG report to come soon.
James Comey is going to be totally exposed
for rigging the Hillary Clinton email investigation.
It's all coming up next on the Alex Jones Show.
Don't go anywhere.
- This is the last week to get free shipping
on all of our best-selling items.
And infowarestore.com.
We also have some of the biggest sales in our history
on super high-quality supplements and other products
at infowarestore.com, as well as infowareslife.com.
BODY's Ultimate Turmeric Formula
has the strongest curcumin level of any other brand
you're gonna find out there at 95%.
Leading competitors have a curcumin level of 3%.
From there, we've got dozens and dozens and dozens
of other game-changing products
that you and your family will absolutely love
and will help support the broadcast.
It is critical that you go to infowarestore.com
and look at some of those items for yourself,
whether it's water filtration, air filtration,
non-GMO heirloom seeds, X2.
It's all there at infowarestore.com
or infowareslife.com.
- Do you realize that when you spread the links
from infowars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalists.
It is you, the info warriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying,
that stood against the peer pressure,
that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team,
supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the info war.
And now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email.
So there's no way the censors can get between us
with critical videos, articles, breaking news,
intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever
to share the infowars.com articles,
to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at infowars.com
forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
- You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
(cash register ringing)
(dramatic music)
- And it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war
and say, I don't know what's gonna happen at the end of this
but you wanna fight, you better believe you got one.
(crowd cheering)
- From the front lines of the information war,
it's Alex Jones.
(dramatic music)
- As if the severity at the Singapore Capella Hotel
wasn't racked with enough cosmic intensity
before the meeting took place
between the Rocket Man and the old dottard
as they previously described each other
reeling from Canadian Prime Minister,
Justin Trudeau's backstabbery
and outraged Trump administration economic advisor,
Larry Kudlow was rushed to the Walter Reed Medical Center
suffering from a heart attack.
This was no ragamuffin affair.
After the two leaders comfortably arrived
at the Capella Singapore Hotel grounds,
Kim Jong-un settled into one of the finest hotel rooms
on earth surrounded by fields of roaming peacocks,
an amusement park and complete with a personal bathroom
for Kim Jong-un as requested.
And oddly enough, no other American quantified the absence
of any previous leadership
to tackle the North Korean hermit nuclear kingdom
like Dennis Rodman.
- And Obama didn't even give me the time of day.
I asked him, I said, I have something to say from North Korea
he just brushed me off, but that didn't deter me.
I still kept going back, I kept going back,
I kept going back.
I showed my loyalty and my trustworthiness to this country.
And I said to everybody, I said, the door will open.
When I said those damn things, when I went back home,
I got so many belt threads.
I knew it, I was the only one,
I never had no one to hear me,
I didn't know no one had to see me.
But I took those bullets, I took all that,
I took everything, everyone came at me
and I'm still standing.
And today is a great day for everybody,
Singapore, Tokyo, China, everything, it's a great day.
- No less bringing an end to the table,
the atrocity known as the Korean War
that began on June 25th, 1950,
just about a fortnight shy of 68 years ago,
along with an effort toward denuclearization
in exchange for security.
- North Korea has previously confirmed to us
its willingness to denuclearize.
And we're eager to see if those words prove sincere.
- The fact that our two leaders are sitting down
face to face is a sign of the enormous potential
to accomplish something that will immensely benefit
both of our peoples and the entire world.
- I want to thank Chairman Kim for taking
the first bold step toward a bright new future
for his people.
Our unprecedented meeting,
the first between an American president
and a leader of North Korea
proves that real change is indeed possible.
- My meeting with Chairman Kim was honest,
direct, and productive.
We got to know each other well
in a very confined period of time,
under very strong, strong circumstance.
- While the crumbling fake news media
attempted to write off the entire affair,
CNN's Jim Acosta even yelled,
"Are you going to give up your nukes during the photo op?"
- We're very proud of what took place today.
I think our whole relationship with North Korea
and the Korean Peninsula is going to be
a very much different situation than it has in the past.
We both want to do something,
we both are going to do something,
and we have developed a very special bond.
So people are going to be very impressed,
people are going to be very happy,
and we're going to take care of a very big
and very dangerous problem for the world.
And I want to thank Chairman Kim.
We spent a lot of time together today,
a very intensive time,
and I would actually say that it worked out
for both of us far better than anybody could have expected.
- Get ready for the big payback, fake liberals.
This is what American leadership looks like.
John Bowne reporting for Infowars.com.
- Ladies and gentlemen, Scott Adams.
Well, he's been talking about word for word.
Got put into the amazing little short video
that President Trump showed Kim Jong-un,
the power of positive thinking history not repeating itself
if we get involved and become history's actors
to steal a phrase from Karl Rove.
What was he talking about?
He's saying we know that secret, you don't.
So you repeat it, but we don't.
Infowarslife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited
to announce our latest release,
Winner's Son, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winner's Son is a premium quality
vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil
from healthy nutrient-dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best
at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit
of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Son vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
(upbeat music)
(upbeat music)
- Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide,
it's Alex Jones.
(upbeat music)
♪ I could escape this feeling ♪
♪ With my child of ground ♪
♪ I feel a wreck ♪
♪ Without my little child of ground ♪
- Well, I appreciate Scott Adams coming on on short notice,
creator of Dilbert, you name it.
Really, Life Coach is what he segued into
and very, very popular online doing that.
And of course, he's been at the center
of the whole Kanye West awakening process
and made the point a few months ago
that Kanye had blown a hole in reality.
So I guess that reality could then start pouring in.
He talked about how it's a lie that history repeats.
It's something politicians, people use against us.
It doesn't have to repeat if we don't want it to.
And now I was watching the little two minute video
that Trump showed Kim Jong-un
that as Scott Adams pointed out a few days ago,
oh, and could be the best negotiation strategy ever.
And it certainly knew and it certainly worked so far,
but I'm watching, I'm like,
oh, that's Scott Adams word for word.
This is what he said in his last video about Kanye.
Somebody must be watching.
And then sure enough, Scott Adams put a video out
pointing out, not taking credit for it,
but pointing out those parallels.
And so I'm just wondering with Scott Adams,
obviously he and Trump are going to the same fount
of knowledge.
And I know there was this pastor that was real famous
that was a positive thinker, positive speaker,
that that helped motivate Trump to a great extent.
But just the positivity coming back in the world
is even making me a lot happier of a person
because I tend to get negative sometimes too
about the bad things in the world
instead of getting positive about the good things.
But then I start seeing all these great things happening.
But while I was on vacation,
I ran into Democrats who get in my face, three of them did.
And I'd say, what about the peace deal?
Isn't it great?
What about the economy?
And they just say, shut up racist.
And I said, that's not reality and that's not true.
And so it just gets crazier and crazier and crazier
that we have big polls out on infowars.com,
Paul Joseph Watson article, TV poll,
71% of liberals don't want peace with North Korea
because Trump would take credit.
They're having national TV polls
with Michelle Wolf's Netflix show
and 71% don't want peace and admit
it's because they don't like Trump.
This is like a death cult of negative people
that would rather die in nuclear war.
Scott Adams, you're really good at putting your finger
on the major pulse of the good things and the bad things.
But if Kanye blew a hole in reality, which I agree,
and now that breach has turned into a huge gaping maw,
where are we historically right now?
And thanks for joining us.
- Well, I call it the beginning of the golden age.
I've been defining the golden age as that moment
when people start realizing that the remaining big problems
are no longer physical.
The physical problem would be you run out of food,
out of resources, and we're not in that situation.
We're more in a situation where,
North Korea is a perfect example.
We were worried about what they were thinking
and they were worried about what we were thinking,
but neither of us had any reason to be at war
or to start a war or to continue bad feelings.
So by both Chairman Kim, who said it first, by the way,
he said in his first statement at the summit,
he said words to the effect of,
let's leave the past behind.
And then you saw President Trump with his video,
that's getting a lot of attention,
saying exactly the same thing.
Because if you dwell on the past, you're stuck with,
but we can't move forward because you did this that one time
or some relative of yours did something one time
or our side did something that one time.
You just can't move forward.
And it seems to me that the biggest story here
that isn't reported because people don't like
to frame anything positively for President Trump,
when they say, "Hey, he walked away from that summit
"with nothing."
And I say, it's easy to argue,
well, he got a commitment to do this
or a commitment to do that.
But realistically, all the commitments they made,
the commitments we made are reasonably reversible.
So it's not really about that.
What the president did and Chairman Kim,
and I give him credit as well,
is that they have redefined the situation
from two moral enemies, one who must win
and the other one must lose,
to two potential friends who have taken the first few steps
that are not really representative of the whole journey,
but they're on the right path to friendship.
Something where we win, they win.
And frankly, they win a lot bigger than we win
if this plays out right.
So the whole reframing from enemies
to probably friends who can help each other
is what the president walked away with.
And it's completely ignored.
And when he's given that we're essentially safer
from nuclear war now, and his critics said,
"What, that's crazy."
And I say, "Who has a nuclear war with their ally?
"Who bombs somebody who has just offered
"to help rebuild your country?
"Who becomes an enemy with somebody
"who's got their hand out literally and figuratively?"
It's the sort of thing that just doesn't really happen.
So he reframed the situation in a way
that effectively made a nuclear war no longer have a purpose.
Who bombs their friends?
It just doesn't happen.
And as long as we're on that path,
even tentatively, even perhaps,
and everybody would agree that much more
would need to be done to make it real.
But as long as you're on the path to mutual benefit,
nobody fights, nobody.
It just doesn't happen.
And that I think is the biggest unreported story.
- Scott, I went back a few days ago
and I watched your 20-minute viral video
for however long it was on Kanye blowing a hole in reality.
And then I went back and watched your new video.
But before I watched that one,
I wanted to go watch the old one.
And I don't want to say Trump's plagiarizing, and he's not,
but it's word for word about unlimited resources,
we've transcended resources, we can flip the script,
we can take control of our destiny.
History doesn't have to repeat,
but we're the people in the critical time to do it.
I mean, seeing that, I mean, you guys are on the same page.
So maybe for listeners that want to learn more
about the antecedents to your political
and your philosophy in life,
what would they want to research?
- Well, my book, "Win Bigly" has a good introduction
to that sort of stuff.
But as you mentioned before,
the influential pastor Norman Vincent Peale
was the person who really was the father, if you will,
of the idea of the power of positive thinking.
That was his bestselling book.
And he was Trump's pastor when Trump was a kid.
And he was influential to me as well.
I read his books.
So I think we all got a little bit infected
by the strategy of being positive
and framing things in the positive way
for win-win situations.
So it probably shouldn't be a big surprise
that people who had the same influences
have arrived at the same way of--
- Sure, but a couple years ago
when you did the whole mental judo
where you said, "Oh, I'm supporting Hillary,"
or I'll be basically murdered,
you were saying, "I believe Trump is following this.
"I believe he'll be successful."
And I think it's because you understood his mindset
that you have, better than anybody, I think,
charted what he would do.
- Yeah, and the other thing he does well
that he doesn't get credit for is a sense of priorities.
If you look at the criticisms of him,
and you were to make a list of all the things people say,
and then make a list of the things he's actually doing
that are real things like the economy, North Korea,
progress with beating ISIS, et cetera,
those are all real things and are top priorities.
The things people are arguing about are,
well, he didn't pass the fact-checking on this
according to us.
It tends to be a little subject
to what the facts are in many cases.
- Exactly, they're still playing the game
like they're God and they dictate reality.
- Yeah, and the president has put winning
and making America great again,
having a strong economy, all those things,
very expressly at the top of his priority list.
And when he uses persuasion to get there,
the critics are arguing the least important parts
of what he said.
They're arguing about the wording.
They're arguing about the technical accuracy.
They're arguing about whether in some way
that we can't imagine things will be worse in the future
because we allowed this to happen today.
- But what matters is it's really working.
So I wanna ask Scott Adams, a real visionary,
what's coming next straight ahead?
And I wanna talk about the negativity though.
As people get more positive and we realize
that humanity's in a pretty good position
if we behave like it,
well, what is the negative side gonna do?
'Cause they don't seem to be getting better.
They seem to be getting just insane
and just making up their own false reality
while putting their finger at us and saying,
we're the ones lying, we'll be back.
- Want revenge on the common house fly?
Well, after 10,000 years,
someone has finally come up with a better way.
The Bug Assault, a miniaturized shotgun,
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun, you'll forget you have a wife and kids.
39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off
your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter.
Get your Bug Assault today.
It's a no brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine,
fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original and most trusted name
in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off
ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-BERKEY
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-BERKEY.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging
provides 10 year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest,
center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at readytoeatbacon.com.
Readytoeatbacon.com.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price.
The Fox Karambit knife.
Finally available in the US.
The Fox Karambit knife opens with one hand.
Faster than you can pull a handgun.
For utility, for defense,
and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to theultimateknife.com.
Truly the best knife you will ever own.
And only available at theultimateknife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price
at theultimateknife.com.
- We can't extend this free shipping sale much longer
with our best selling items at infoorestore.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few more days.
We're also running out of some of our best selling items
like our amazing Nootropic Rainforce.
It's $19.95.
Leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good.
It's a great deal normally at $39.95.
Rainforce, you've never tried it.
This is a great opportunity.
$19.95.
Also, Alpha Power is 50% off.
If you don't know what it's done for me
and so many others for stamina, focus, libido,
it does so many things.
X2, even though we're having trouble sourcing
the deep earth crystals of the good halogen iodine,
I am blowing out the stockpile of it.
We have at least for another few days at 50% off.
And then after that, it's gonna go back to full price
until we secure more of it.
InfoWarsLife.com, InfoWarsStore.com,
or 888-253-3139.
Thank you all for helping fund
the second American global revolution.
- Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced
the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack
to help you fuel it right.
Combine FloraLife Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
FloraLife is a powerful probiotic supplement
with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body
in tip-top shape in the fight against stress,
age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try FloraLife and Carnivore
to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body
and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
- You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
(upbeat music)
(audience cheering)
Alex Jones here, Owen Schroer is riding shotgun.
We've got one of the only Scott Adams,
creator of Dilbert on with us.
Winn Bigley is his new bestselling book
that I read and was excellent.
TV poll, 71% of liberals don't want peace with North Korea
because Trump would take the credit.
I'm gonna play a short clip of this, but I'm not kidding.
I was on vacation for eight days, as you know,
in Hawaii, a working vacation.
I took all four of my children, my wife, we all went.
And I had leftist three times come over and say,
"How do you sleep at night, you racist?"
And then make up something I never said
that the media says I said, or some edited quote.
And then I would try to humanize it and say,
"Hey, listen, what about Trump and the economy coming back?
"What about Trump freeing up a lot of these
"experimental medical treatments, people that are terminal?"
(mimics gunfire)
Get away from me, I'm gonna call security.
So they would talk to me, two of the three people
would then threaten to call the police on me
if I even spoke back to them.
We're talking 20 seconds into conversation.
I'd say, "Fine, I'm sorry, Trump's getting
"the big peace deal."
And they're like, "Oh, whatever."
And now we have a poll, but that's what's crazy is
what Scott Adams said is 1000% correct.
We got, by putting pressure on them at first,
got them to come across the DMZ,
got them to meet with the South Korean president,
unprecedented, got them to blow up their nuclear facilities,
got them to basically unconditionally agree on a path
to total denuclearization with a real deal to build them up
so the military-industrial complex doesn't get
the trillions the Koreans do.
This is a good thing.
And you've got major Nobel laureate groups
and people that are on the panel over there
now saying he is nominated and that he deserves praise.
This is how we have peace.
But the Democrats were the ones
that always want peace and always want this great stuff.
And oh, Republicans are all warmongers.
Here comes Trump, who was against the first Iraq war,
the second, all that stuff.
Here he comes, proven right, and man, they are pissed.
Well, ask Scott Adams how they're gonna respond,
where this cognitive dissonance goes,
how crazy it's gonna get before they finally admit
they've been in a cult.
Let's play the clip.
Here it is from Netflix.
- Are you sort of hoping we don't get peace with North Korea
so you wouldn't have to give Trump credit?
Yes or no?
(bell dings)
Yeah, I mean.
- That's how liberal they are,
that they would rather the world explodes.
They're like, I told you guys he was an asshole.
(audience laughs)
- Yeah, I don't know if that's gonna happen
when the bomb hits and then all those Trump people,
they're not gonna be like,
oh, we should have been okay with her email.
(audience laughs)
It doesn't even make sense anymore.
That's the article on Infowars.com.
That's Michelle Wolfe's Netflix show.
Scott, what's gonna happen to these people
as things just get better and better?
You're gonna get sick of the winning and the winning
and the winning, and you're gonna say,
I'm tired of the winning.
No, I'm sorry, we're gonna keep winning.
- Yeah, if you have a moment,
check out the Nate Silver tweet he just did,
mentioning that people seem to be looking for reasons
why Trump did poorly instead of looking for reasons
why the agreement is probably making the risk
of nuclear war less.
That would be a fun one to look at.
Now, I had predicted on election day,
when Trump got elected, there would be this massive
cluster bomb of cognitive dissonance, and we saw that.
There were, I don't know, dozens and dozens of reasons
given for why this unexpected outcome happened.
And you saw people imagining they lived
in a Hitler-like state.
You saw people imagining all manner of things
that were gonna go wrong, and of course, none of them did.
Now some time has passed.
Their opposition has hardened,
and at the same time, we're going into this
North Korean situation, which is the ultimate trigger
for cognitive dissonance, because this is the very thing
that everybody thought was just too hard,
that nobody could do it.
And he's sort of making it look easy,
and it's on a path that something really good could happen.
As I said, we've changed the frame from two enemies
who really need to get serious about
how you specifically go forward,
to two potential friends that is a whole different situation.
So I think that if this goes to the next level
of where we're actually very comfortable
that their nuclear weapons are controlled, identified,
they're moving in the back of the country,
that you're gonna see brains exploding,
because their world won't make sense
that this person that they believe
is just completely incompetent has done the thing
that all the smart people couldn't do.
And I mean this legitimately.
I'm not saying this as interesting political punditry.
I'm not just trying to be interesting.
I believe legitimately there's a huge mental risk here
that could happen if North Korea goes in the right direction
and it looks like it is.
- I totally agree.
The economy coming back, all the other positive things
would take up the time we have.
I went through the positive things,
but it's because I think you quantified it.
This is a non-zero sum game
now that we have this much technology.
And a lot of the globalists admit that, know that.
They don't want people to get to that point
where they don't have control anymore,
where the establishment doesn't,
and where humanity really accelerates.
I think we're reaching that acceleration point,
but the crony capitalists, the monopoly powers,
the interest that want chaos so they can control it
and knock out their competition,
they're doing everything they can to block it.
And then here comes Trump
who doesn't want to keep it a hermit state
and doesn't want to keep the aircraft carriers there.
And of course they were criticizing him for beefing things up
to put the pressure in the art of the deal.
What are they going to do then?
Is there any way, what would you say to them
when they come up to me, Scott, you're a smart guy,
and Owen Chai makes you ride the shotgun,
when they come over and just say racist, I hate you,
shame on you, it's like they're children.
They're using peer pressure on me.
I just see them as a mental patient making stuff up
and trying to control reality,
but I don't know what to say to them
'cause they aren't listening.
It's all one way, I don't exist.
It's like I'm there for them to LARP.
It's like live action role-playing
and they're playing Dungeons and Dragons
and they've come upon some type of evil demon or something.
- Yeah, in my experience, you can't talk somebody out
of that kind of frame.
So if somebody's locked in,
there's nothing you're going to say,
even if you said everything right and persuasive,
they're pretty locked in.
The only thing that's going to make a difference is results.
So if, for example, the president makes some real progress
with urban revitalization or prison reform,
if he keeps doing some, what I would call very strategic,
but also humanitarian pardons,
if he keeps doing that, the weight of evidence
is just going to make it too hard to hold your frame.
We already saw, somebody sent me by tweet,
a comment, an individual had asked Noam Chomsky
what he thought about the North Korea situation
and Chomsky actually had a positive opinion on it,
that it looked like it was a step in the right direction.
Now you see, days still go,
you see Noam Chomsky go, you see the economy roaring,
but you really need something specifically
on the racism part of that.
I don't think low unemployment is going to get you there,
although it helps a lot, obviously.
You need something that people can't easily explain as,
well, that's just more Obama stuff.
You need something that's new, that's yours,
that's visual, that's undeniable.
And I like, for example, the Jack Johnson,
do I have the name right, pardon?
- Yes.
- Because what was powerful about that
is it didn't have to happen.
And anybody who has in their mind,
oh, he's just sending these racist secret dog whistles,
you'd have to explain how that could possibly help you
with a presumable racist base
who would only like racist stuff.
It's exactly the opposite
of what their frame predicts would happen.
- And the polls show people are waking up.
Let's come back one more second with Scott Adams
and find out what he thinks Trump's gonna do next
on the other side,
but also what happens if they assassinate Trump.
- Want revenge on the common house fly?
Well, after 10,000 years,
someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun,
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition,
non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun, you'll forget you have a wife and kids.
39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase
at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter.
Get your bug assault today.
- You have been lied to.
- My name is Kevin Shipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written
what I think is the best ex-mosay
on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis
and our government is now being run and ruled
by a shadow government.
We gotta get this out because just 'cause you're awake,
folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give to the library,
to give to your church.
Get 'em right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
- Choose to take control of your chemistry
with Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect
for supporting your thyroid and health.
BioTrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine
is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy,
weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium
work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2
and BioTrue Selenium at Infowarslife.com.
- Do you realize that when you spread the links
from Infowars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalists.
It is you, the Infowarriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying,
that stood against the peer pressure,
that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team,
supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to Infowars.com/newsletter
and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us
with critical videos, articles, breaking news,
intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever
to share the Infowars.com articles,
to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do
is sign up for the free newsletter
at Infowars.com/newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
- Guaranteeing your food independence
is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crises, natural disasters,
or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With Infowars Life Select Storable Food,
you can make sure you and your family
are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals
in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy,
easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler stew,
homestyle potato soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast,
lunch, and dinner.
Infowars Life Select Storable Food
will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go,
and you have easy-to-cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones' trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need.
For an affordable price with Infowars
Life Select Storable Foods.
- You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

>> A lot of his supporters believe
that we are the enemy of
the American people.
And that is really,
really an awful situation.
We are not the enemy of
the American people.
We love the American people.
All right.
Well, you know, Scott Adams,
CNN is losing the mind war when
their ratings are the lowest they've ever been.
They're just local TV stations,
just in like New York,
have more viewers than CNN does.
One New York TV station,
Weather Report, has more viewers
than they have in an hour, literally.
We have affiliates that have hundreds
of thousands of people tuning in
throughout a whole show.
They have hundreds of thousands per hour.
They are a joke.
Force fed at the government facilities,
like the airport this morning.
When I was in DFW,
I'm sitting there having CNN report
on IQs dropping in the US.
Well, certainly IQs dropping over there.
So Scott Adams,
I brought up a negative point so
that hopefully it doesn't happen.
I don't want to be overly
too positive.
I mean, I don't believe like
the Oprah thing, like the secret.
If you just believe you're going to
manifest a big old juicy turkey in
front of you that just came out
of the oven, it's not going to happen.
But if we have the resources,
the ideas work together.
We've gotten to a level where we
can have almost anything into
the future as a culture, as a society.
I totally agree with you and
you've helped me be more positive
in saying that.
That fighting with a negative
collectivist doesn't really do
anything to them.
Just succeeding and
showing them by example,
like Trump is doing, doggedly saying,
give me more stuff to fix.
And then he's attacking it,
like a business manager.
He's a maverick that got elected.
He's already changed the world.
They keep saying,
his dad gave him a million bucks.
Trump's a total maverick,
never been in politics,
comes in and wins.
You can't slice it any other way
than Trump is one of the most
important people in history already.
They say, he doesn't really want to
win the election.
He doesn't want to win re-election.
He doesn't want to campaign for
the midterms.
He's doing all of that because Trump
knows his name.
Everything is now bound to our
success, and
our success is global success.
So I have to be a cheerleader.
But that said,
getting into the whole racism thing,
I totally agree.
The minimum sentencing that's
basically tripled for
the type of cocaine on average
inner city folks use, get rid of
that, he's decriminalizing marijuana,
something Obama would never do.
I mean, already,
it's just insane what he's done.
So what else positive should he do?
A, and then B,
what are the downsides?
What happens if they're crazy
enough to hype up some nut like we
saw with shooting up the
congressional baseball team?
What if somebody kills Trump?
God forbid, what would the action be
reversing all the success?
How angry would his supporters be?
And then has the left pushing for
his death everywhere even thought
about what that would do to them,
Scott Adams?
So looking into crystal ball,
I'm not wanting that to happen.
I'm saying in that horrible reality,
what would unfold?
>> Yeah, I hate to think about that
and give energy to that thought.
But I would say the obvious,
which is that if you imagine that
for whatever reason,
President Trump, let's say,
stepped down for personal reasons.
If the next president is a Democrat,
I think the policies are going to be
so similar to what Trump has done,
that it wouldn't be as big a change
as you think.
Now, there'll be things like
healthcare that might be quite
different.
But it's going to be hard to raise
people's taxes.
That's just going to be a tough sell.
It's going to be hard to go back
to hating North Korea.
There's just going to be a lot of
stuff that's going to be hard to do.
What's he going to do?
Reverse the pardon for Jack Johnson?
I mean, when you come right down to
the stuff he's done,
it's hard to reverse it.
But it's easier to criticize it if
you're not in power.
So I'd be a little less worried
about it going bad.
Now, I wanted to call out something
that happened just while we were
talking here.
There was a tweet that came out from
President Moon of South Korea.
And I'm just going to call out one
sentence, a larger statement.
He was talking about
the North Korea success.
And he goes, I pay my high
compliments for the courage and
determination of two leaders,
Trump and Chairman Kim.
And here's the next sentence that I
thought was worth calling out.
He goes, not to settle for that
outdated and familiar reality, but
to take a daring step toward change.
And then the next sentence he goes,
to help break down the last remaining
Cold War legacy on Earth.
This is the way of thinking that's
changing everything.
>> Wow.
>> It's just letting go of the past.
It's not just Kanye,
it's not just me,
it's not just the President.
It's Chairman Kim,
it's President Moon.
This is a new way of thinking which
promotes the fact that our problems
are now the way we think about them.
They're psychological.
>> This is so huge, let me ask you.
>> If we deal with them that way.
>> Let me ask you this, Scott.
Why didn't Obama do this?
Why couldn't they do everything
Trump's doing?
>> That problem is, or
that question is probably 100
different variables.
It'd be hard to pull out one, but
the one that jumps out is persuasion.
So President Trump's understanding of
human beings,
his understanding of persuasion,
allows him to set priorities in
a completely different way.
So Obama was probably very fact-based,
maybe tied a little bit to whatever
is the way we've done it before.
And those are real limitations, and
this president doesn't seem to
operate as if limitations exist in
the normal way that we think
they should.
>> I actually would have to disagree
with Scott on this.
I think that it's actually very
simple why Trump was able to get
this done and not Obama.
I don't think you have to look for
many reasons at all.
I think it's one reason he wanted
to.
All he had to do was have the desire
and the will to do it, and
he got it done.
That is the biggest difference
between Trump and Obama.
And there's this narrative I'm
seeing in the media right now where
they're saying, when Obama said he
wanted to meet with Kim Jong-un,
and this is an attack that they
had on Fox News, Fox News was upset.
What if Obama met with the Iran,
Ayatollah, and shook his hand and
said this is a great brave man?
Conservatives would have been
all upset.
But there's a fundamental
difference between not just Obama,
but Clinton and Bush and
everyone prior to Trump.
They didn't want to put America
first.
They didn't have America's
interests first.
They had their own special
interests, their own agenda,
all that. >> Exactly, we know when
Trump's doing something, he's doing
it for our interest, but
that tends to help other people
as well.
But Scott, I think,
understands that.
He's just looking at it from
a positive perspective.
I mean, let's hear it from
the horse's mouth himself.
But I mean, the whole issue is
you're absolutely right.
Trump wants to end the Cold War for
good, which will save us trillions
of dollars in the aggregate.
And let's be honest,
a lot of the military industrial
complex doesn't want this to happen.
So this is a big, bold peace move,
the likes of which we haven't seen
since Ronald Reagan and
the fall of the Berlin Wall.
Scott Adams?
>> Well, I would put my own spin on
what you just said.
I like to avoid saying that I know
people's inner thoughts.
So I usually avoid things like
somebody who wants something unless
they've said it in their own words.
But the way I would put it is that,
at least in terms of North Korea,
what President Trump did is not
wanting a result.
He decided that they weren't going
to have nuclear weapons, and
they only had two ways to get there.
There's the ugly way, and
there's the awesome way.
And the video- >> He knows how to
make it very clear-cut choices,
flip the script, break the mold.
And what you said is so
is because I've thought about this
a lot.
There's no turning back,
even if they kill Trump,
which I hope doesn't happen.
It's already almost irreversible,
because here came somebody on
a cold-blooded corporation that's
wanting more power and more money.
Here came Trump really wanting to
be a man of destiny and
telling us to be part of destiny.
This is an incredible time to
be alive, Scott Adams.
I hate to gush about Trump, but
let's just say it.
What would it be like if
Mayor Hillary had gotten in?
Well,
I can give full credit to the
leaders.
I think we're in a new age where,
especially with a populist
president, it's very much
a audience participation in
government in a way it never used
to be, just because of the growth
and the power of social media.
So I think that President Trump's
success has a lot to do with
the number of people who are behind
him and the energy that they give
him, the support they give him,
the ideas that they give him.
I think you see him actually
responding to better ideas and
public opinion in a way we haven't
quite seen before, and
I mean that in a positive way.
So we may be reaching a point- >>
>> Critical mass?
>> Probably after the president or
the public and the good ideas can
bubble up, and
then the leaders can't ignore them.
>> Wow, Scott Adams,
I really appreciate your work.
And I'm not just saying that,
you've really helped me.
I read Winn-Bigley,
I gave it to my son.
He's really become more positive
because he was already real
positive, but it's really helped me
because I get so
focused on the bad guys.
I want to focus on the good guys
more, and you and Kanye and
Candace Owens and Trump and
all of us together,
it's just been amazing.
And the fact that you don't want
the globalists bully you,
you're not coming on the show.
You're a real maverick, Scott, so
God bless you, people can follow
you @scottadamsays and
get the book Winn-Bigley.
Thank you so much,
have a great weekend, Scott.
>> Thank you.
>> That was powerful.
Now let's come back and
I get your perspective.
I actually agree with you,
Trump has the goodwill,
and he said that in the video.
So we'll talk about goodwill when
we come back and
we'll get into the AG report.
That's just now coming out,
stay with us.
That was Scott Adams, folks,
I'm Alex Jones.

>> This is the last week to get
free shipping on all of our best
selling items at infowarsstore.com.
We also have some of the biggest
sales in our history on super high
quality supplements and
other products at infowarsstore.com
as well as infowarslife.com.
Body's Ultimate Turmeric Formula
has the strongest curcumin level
of any other brand you're gonna
find out there at 95%.
Leading competitors have
a curcumin level of 3%.
From there, we've got dozens and
dozens and dozens of other game
changing products that you and
your family will absolutely love.
And will help support the broadcast.
It is critical that you go to
infowarsstore.com and look at some
of those items for yourself.
Whether it's water filtration,
air filtration, non-GMO heirloom
seeds, X2, it's all there at
infowarsstore.com or
infowarslife.com.

>> Living in volcano may sound more
dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here
in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater, and
we need to be concerned about ash
and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy
metal particles, and acid rain
could lower the pH of the water to
unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of
tests for heavy metals, alkalinity,
and pH.
What we learned was that there was,
in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy
metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our
Alexa Pure Gravity Filter.
And not only were the heavy metal
levels within safe measure, but
the pH was also restored to optimal
levels.
As it turns out,
the filter on the Alexa Pure raises
the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that
volcanic ash and acid rain can
contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly,
a good water filtration system will
purify it.

>> Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced
the Infowars Life Daily Digestive
Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine FloraLife Everyday
Maintenance and Carnivore to help
you fuel your gut and body and
take advantage of the powerful
nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power
your body.
FloraLife is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most
potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and
your body to help you fight toxins
and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help
keep your body in tip top shape in
the fight against stress, age, and
outside toxins.
There's no better time to try
FloraLife and Carnivore to see how
well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to
fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily
Digestive Pack today.
>> You know, if I tried to sit here
and tell you about the 60 plus
products, we have an Infowars Life.
It take hours.
MycoZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in
probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold,
the candida.
It's back in stock.
The Real Red Pill,
it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglanone,
that's the precursor to all the
natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and
the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes
great with the Super Blue Colloidal
Silver and Iodine Fortified
Toothpaste is Super Blue Silver
Immune Gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine,
super high quality silver,
and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for
remembering InfowarsStore.com.
And remembering that it's not just
you that's already awake, but
it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to
spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for
being part of the second American
revolution.

>> You're listening to
the Alex Jones Show.

>> We've got it.
>> The transmission is coming to
you.

>> Waging war on corruption.
>> All right, you want to go?
>> It's Alex Jones,
coming to you live from the front
lines of the Info War.

>> Now, I'm a very,
very positive person.
But over the years,
people thought I was negative
because I was always attacking what
was bad the globalists were doing,
which was critical.
So people knew there was a private
corporate world government above
the law, tax exempt diplomatic
community, that by the way,
has an endgame of depopulation and
is anti-Christian, anti-family,
which is now all admitted.
So that was a positive thing that
we served in doing, and
we still do it.
Like, hey, 5G and all these studies
gives you really bad brain cancer.
But when you look at somebody like
Scott Adams, it's not like Oprah
and the Secret where you just
imagine you're going to materialize
100 carat diamond in front of you.
You got to go to Africa,
you got to dig in the ground,
you got to find it, okay?
You got to have the wherewithal,
you got to have the mining skills,
but we had the technology.
And for whatever it is we want to
do, we can now basically like
little g, made in God's image,
create things, do amazing things.
But we can also have bad people get
control of human intellect and
do really horrible things.
And those are the people that crave
control.
And I want to play this video,
this is an edited down trailer from
Get Me Roger Stone.
I want to find the HD version
somewhere around here in our
databanks, but
I found this on YouTube.
And this is why they hate us.
If you want to know why they want
to shut us down,
why they demonize Infowars,
why they demonize Trump,
is the winning.
And they want us to forget about
the winning and say, they won
because they're Russians, yeah.
And I'm a blue butted baboon too.
I mean, that's ridiculous.
But again, change the subject from
the WikiLeaks and
what's in them to the Russians.
Two plus years later,
no proof of that.
And now the AG report,
pieces of it are out,
it hasn't fully come out yet.
But it's what we already know,
we've got Comey working.
And you've got others working with
the Clintons to let them know what
was coming and
letting witnesses know they were
going to be called.
It's witness tampering,
it's obstruction of justice,
it's absconding, it's conspiracy,
it's racketeering, it's- >> It's
high treason.
>> It's criminal, because it is
high treason because it's against
the country and against the voters.
We don't have a king in this
country, we have the voters.
We have the Constitution,
Bill of Rights.
And when you're trying to overturn
that system,
you can do anything you want in
this country.
But you can't try to overturn
people's rights.
In a republic, the minority rights
are guarded just like
the majority rights.
>> Well, let's be perfectly clear,
if they want to complain about
rigging elections,
how is protecting Hillary Clinton,
one of the candidates,
not trying to rig an election?
The woman should have been
prosecuted, maybe even been serving
a sentence while she was
campaigning.
>> Maybe even, I mean,
the train of criminal activity is
dizzying.
>> I'm sorry, absolutely should
have been in jail,
perhaps even worse.
>> So you want to know why they
hate us and
why they changed the subject.
When the Japanese Prime Minister
throws out a little bit of the
food to get the fish up to the
water, hell,
we do the same way here.
A lot of folks I know have a little
pond in their backyard,
they got bass and a catfish.
You throw a few little pieces in
and get them up to where you're at.
You throw the whole little bucket
in, you feed the fish.
People have stock ponds,
have those, he dumps it all in.
They turn that into,
look at how he's inept.
because they know he's a cheerleader
for America.
>> The fact that they've had to
admit, in fact, let's keep
the Bill Maher after this.
I wanted to play that again
yesterday, I didn't.
Bill Maher, he said this week and
a half ago,
we should play this every day.
He says, I want to plunge
the economy.
I want a crashing economy so
that we can stop the Trump agenda.
>> No, Alex, you- >> And yay, yay,
ruin, I mean, these people are,
what have I tell you every day?
They want to make you poor,
it's called feudalism.
>> And then you play this,
you play Bill Maher saying we want
to collapse the economy.
Then you play the wolf saying we
want there to be nuclear war with
North Korea.
That's all you need to do.
I mean, that tells you their entire
mindset, Alex.
>> And we've got Bill Maher
famously always saying,
I want more abortion,
I want suicide, I want death,
I want less people on the highway.
Idiot, millions of people in
megacities build the infrastructure
for the highways,
for the golf courses, moron.
>> I said- >> You're a moron,
boom cities are booms because
they're booms.
And I explain this,
you can go 100 miles in most area
of the ocean before you hit a reef
area, the proper sun,
shallow enough.
And you'll have more biodiversity
in just a few square miles than you
have in hundreds of square miles.
Do the fish go, man,
this reef's really crowded.
No, they're like,
this is where all the food's at,
man.
Bill Maher flies over LA and
goes, God, I hate all these people.
And yeah, they're a bunch of
miserable followers of you.
>> Well, Bill Maher,
I actually appreciate Bill Maher
showing the true face of
the American left right now that
wants to collapse the economy.
What do I tell you?
They hate you,
they want to abort you,
they want your money,
they're devil worshippers.
And doesn't matter if he gets into
a red pajamas at night,
which he probably does actually,
most of them do in LA, but
his spirit is satanic.
It's a win-loser mentality.
We are non-zero-sum game.
We are 360 win.
>> Well, and then you see not just
what he says about wanting to
collapse the economy, but the lies,
the misrepresentation,
how he attacks you.
I mean, it's just totally
classless, it's uncouth.
>> The guy's a total fraud,
reading on total property.
And the reason I say that is he's
such a joke, he's such a coward.
Now, since I said it,
let's go ahead and
play Why They Hate Us.
Remember, this is Why They Hate Us.
If you're a radio listener,
it's powerful, but not as powerful
as you're a TV viewer.
You can actually see the crying and
everything.
Here was election night a year and
a half ago.
>> Some of my colleagues at
Trump Tower just a few minutes ago,
there's a little optimism here.
>> No one thought it was going to
be this close at this point.
Trump can still win this thing.
>> We have another state to
project it as the state of
North Carolina,
a big battleground state.
It's going to Donald Trump.
>> I was actually ready to go to
bed, and then I started seeing
the electoral college come in, and
I'm super psyched.
>> This is going to be a very
close election.
>> I'm seeing these late breaking
trends.
This could hand Trump the
presidency, folks.
This is not by any means over.
>> I think there's some real
jitters setting in, and
Hillary Clinton headquarters
right now.
>> The scene here is so
different than it was a few hours
ago when people were happy and
relaxed.
>> This is most unexpected.
>> Certainly is a huge, huge
surprise to so many people out
there.
>> I think we all thought it
couldn't happen, that he couldn't
do what he did, and guess what?
He may just do it.
>> Donald Trump has taken the
lead, he has 216 electoral votes.
>> This is truly the beginning of
the end.
>> He was born the head of
Hillary Clinton.
>> We told them they couldn't get
Trump, and now they got Trump.
What do we do?
>> It's Megyn Kelly,
we run things.
>> Notice where Megyn Kelly is
today, no way.
>> How do I explain this to my
children?
I have Muslim friends- >> She's
heading down with Sirpi.
>> Who are texting me tonight.
>> Who, Megyn who?
>> Saying, should I leave
the country?
>> Megyn, America is- >> America is
crying tonight.
I'm not sure how much of America,
but a very, very significant
portion, I mean, literally crying.

>> Hillary, this is a
very unexpected turn.
>> This is part of the champagne
glasses too.
>> President,
you're late.
>> Donald Trump,
will Donald Trump be
the President of the United States?
>> Yeah.
>> The fast and
deplorable has arrived.
>> People have talked about
a miracle.
I'm hearing about a nightmare.
>> This is your life now,
this is us, this is our country.
>> It's a miracle, we saved
America.
>> And now it's reverse everything
because the globalists
are austerity based.
They say you can't have cars,
you can't have air conditioners,
you've got to be poor.
They say we want to make you poor
for the betterment of the earth,
but they're all going to be filthy
rich and tax exempt again.
Now, let's play this Bill Maher
clip because you just can't play
this enough.
Where he says,
I want a crashing economy.
This is a man reportedly worth,
I don't know that Celebrity Network
site's right, because it says I'm
worth $100 million and that's about
five times what I'm worth.
Which I'm not trying to just be
worth money,
I put it back in the operation.
We got a little bit of money to
help fight lawsuits, whatever,
stored up as an emergency nest egg
that could run things for
a few months.
My goal is to change the world,
my currency is ideas.
So I don't know if it's right, but
I know his contract's like
10 million a year.
He's reportedly worth $100 million.
And he says, I'm sorry,
I know it's going to hurt.
But we really, really, really,
really need to crash the economy to
hurt Trump.
So let's go ahead and
roll that clip.
>> Can I ask about the economy
because this economy is going
pretty well.
We have to, what?
Why is that funny?
>> It is going well for now.
>> For now, right,
that's my question.
>> Is like,
I feel like the bottom has to fall
out at some point.
And by the way, I'm hoping for it,
because I think one way you get rid
of Trump is a crashing economy.
So please bring on the recession.
Sorry if that hurts people.
>> Sorry if it hurts some people.
>> Yeah, yeah. >> Yeah,
because you'll weather it real
fine with $100 million.
>> No, that's the key right there.
That is the arrogance.
That is the mindset of a Bill Maher
where he knows, I'll be fine.
And all the poor people that I
claim to speak up for, they might
have to go through some serious
troubles if there was a collapse
of the economy, which I'm cheering
on, but good.
It'll show those Trump supporters.
It'll show Trump.
It'll show the world that we're
the good guys that crashed
the economy and wanted nuclear war.
Don't you see?
We're the good guys.
>> And it's the same Democrats
suing us to shut us down.
I want to hire a bunch of people.
I want to give people like
Owen a raise.
I want to have affiliates all over
the world.
I want to build new websites,
more films, but we need a lot of
money to do it and be able to
operate, ladies and gentlemen,
because we're into our reserves
right now.
Infowarsstore.com is the last few
days to get free shipping on all
our best selling items.
If you haven't tried X2,
even though we're running out of
it, I'm hoping to get more of
the deep earth sorts of it.
It's amazing, good halogen.
50% off to get those of you off
the fence that have never tried
the good halogen and learn why
they put fluoride in the water,
try to counteract the natural
iodine you get.
Iodine is essential, 50% off right
now, infowarsstore.com.

>> Patrick in the great nation of
Australia, you're on the air
worldwide, thanks for holding.
>> I've been following you since
I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Infowars and
Prison Planet, it was just blue
text on a white screen, and I had
to load down the page on my dial
up internet, and I thought it was
pretty cool.
And read all the books and
seen all the DVDs and
followed all your guests.
And I've been using your product
since the first iteration of
Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2,
the Super Male Vitality,
the Caveman, the Real Red Pill,
Micro ZX Body, it's all amazing.
>> Thank you, brother.
>> Yeah, and I wanted to say that
by following you so much,
it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing
the body, you're detoxing
the spirit.
And it's just the more you know
God, the more you fear God, but
the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's
an honor to stand side by side
with you, the crew, and
the listeners out there,
1776 Worldwide.

>> We can't extend this free
shipping sale much longer with
our best selling items at
infowarsstore.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few
more days.
We're also running out some of
our best selling items like our
new X2, X2 Nootropic, RainForce.
It's $19.95,
leading competitors are $60 and
aren't even as good.
It's a great deal normally at
$39.95.
RainForce, you've never tried it,
this is a great opportunity,
$19.95.
Also, Alpha Power is 50% off.
If you don't know what it's done
for me and so many others, for
stamina, focus, libido,
it does so many things.
X2, even though we're having
trouble sourcing the deep earth
crystals of the good halogen
iodine, I am blowing out the
stockpile of it we have at least
for another few days at 50% off.
And then after that,
it's going to go back to full
price until we secure more of it.
Infowarslife.com,
infowarsstore.com,
or 888-253-3139.
And thank you all for
helping fund the second American
global revolution.
>> You're listening to
the Alex Jones Show.
>> I'm picking up a fake
transmission right now.
I think it's Alex Jones calling.
>> On screen.
>> But here's the good news,
chumps.
You think you're going to
assassinate Trump, or
shoot down the internet, idiot,
and bully a bunch of us that
are going along with you?
>> I'd like to reserve time.
>> You're not going to be willing
to that fight.
>> 21 at this point.
>> And only the dumbest morons
buying your SJW globalist
George Soros dropping.
>> Stabilizer, emergency reserve.
>> Hillary Clinton and
the New World Order and
Michael Moore.
Go back to Haiti,
where you came from.
>> We're awake, and you're not
putting us back in the coma.
You got that, Jack?
You're done, it's over worldwide.
>> Get him back, get him back.


>> Do you think there was more
than one?
>> There's definitely another
shooter involved.
>> For sure, I'm picking shooter.
>> It sounds like it's confirmed
there are at least two shooters
with fully automatic weapons.
>> Clear, I'll let you speak.

>> Now, they think you're
a goldfish.
I've been betting on you my whole
life, I believe in you.
I don't think you're stupid.

>> One man ever writes a woman,
all genitals were cut off.
>> And we're kicking these
traitors' asses politically, and
we're not backing down ever.

>> I want to get these people,
we're winning,
I can feel the spirit rising.
Can't you?
We have broken their back, yes,
I can feel it.

>> Let's go.
>> Come on, come on, come on,
come on, come on, come on, come on.

>> Vengeance is coming.
Fire is coming.
The real revolution against you is
coming, and you will burn in hell.

>> Well, there you go.
I'm sure that's music to God's
ears, don't you think?
Now, Earlier, I played a clip,
I'm going to play a short clip of
it now, of why the Democrats hate
Trump and hate me and hate you so
much, because you're victory.
If you're straight and strong and
good and honorable,
these criminals don't like you.
And the realization that they are
mentally ill, control freaks,
virtue signalers at the lowest
level, and social engineer,
control freaks at the top.
Once you have that realization,
there's no going back,
ladies and gentlemen.
And that's the crazy thing
Democrats have to understand.
They could destroy Trump,
you're not going to reverse
the change, the ideas that have
been put out there.
You're not going to reverse
nationalism and populism spreading
all over the world, like I told you.
Once you ignite the fires of
liberty, they're unstoppable in
this phase.
We hit the bottom of the decadence
curve.
Now, the liberty cycle is
reigniting.
We're entering the beginning of
the cycle, at the end of the cycle,
we're in that no man's land right
now, and they won't be able to ever
reverse that.
Now, things are going to get
bloody, they're going to get crazy
in many levels.
The enemy is going to keep pushing
and pushing.
They're going to get more
vitriolic, more insane,
more negative, more bizarre.
But we have to understand that we're
going to stay the course.
And the stronger and more focused
and undaunted we are,
the more dauntless we are,
the more invincible we are.
And it's that simple, but
this is why they hate us.
And if the Democrats symbolically
think destroying me will resurrect
them, that's great news that that's
the 2020 re-election operation,
is to have Sandy Hook lawsuits going.
It's come out,
they admit it in newspapers,
to try to have it timed to have jury
trials going against me during
the 2020 election in about a year
and a half.
To make that make Trump look bad.
How is that going to fly without
they twist things and lie and
deceive the media and
the Democrats using the poor families?
How is that going to fly?
When you've got the peace deals,
the economy coming back and
getting rid of minimum sentencing
with targets black people and
all these positive things and
taking care of the VA.
How is that going to work?
Let's go out to break with why
they hate us.
Just a few seconds of us sharing
those glasses together.
Here's why they hate us.

>> They're back,
they're deplorable, that's a lie.
>> That's what they don't like,
ladies and gentlemen,
they don't like our winning.
We'll be right back on the other
side.

>> Nourish a probiotic-friendly
environment in your gut with
prebiotic fiber by InfoWars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and
support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber, a mixture of
clinically studied and organic
acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber
that ferments in the gut to help
feed good bacteria, which helps
you digest food, absorb nutrients,
and even support your immune
system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge
formula only brings you the
highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia
fiber is slowly digested by
the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum
prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or
call 1-888-253-3139.

>> So you've been on YouTube for
years and you don't know who I am.

I'm primitive, I'm real,
I know the enemy.
And if we can have the spirit of
normal humanity spread, it's over
for the globalist.
You'll never, never defeat
the human spirit.
You'll never defeat God.
You'll never win.

We know who they are and
we're sick of them.

>> You guys know who he is?
You know Alex Jones has InfoWars?
>> Who are you?
>> Greg Popperlo.
>> Alex Jones.
>> Alex Jones.
>> Alex Jones.
>> Alex Jones.
>> Alex Jones for Alex Jones.
>> Alex Jones.
>> From InfoWars.
>> InfoWars.
>> Yeah.
>> But did that stop him?
No, it did not.
He kept going, okay?
And just it went everywhere.
>> The more they abuse you,
the more you enjoy it,
just like the Stockholm Syndrome.
And so that's why the joke is on you.
And that's why it's going to continue.

>> Repent now, repent now.
I know your mustache is cool.
You got little gold-framed glasses.
You scare me so bad.

>> Live from Austin, Texas,
broadcasting worldwide,
it's Alex Jones.
>> All right, Dr.
Shiva is running against the fake Indian,
the real Indian is running against her.
They've been demonizing him,
trying to ban his free speech.
He's coming up next segment.
He's got exclusive breaking news for us.
He'll ride shotgun covering the waterfront
for 45 minutes of the hour.
We're going to break here in about
eight minutes.
Before I go any further,
there's a lot of news here
that I haven't gotten to.
And you've got the AG report coming out.
And Tom Fenton of Judicial Watch
reportedly has already seen it.
And it's what we thought.
It's a whitewash, but
it's still a devastating whitewash.
because you can paint a big old,
you know what,
steaming pile of manure white.
It's still stinking pile of manure.
And the whitewash ain't working.
And so we pretty much even CNN is
acting like they've already got
a pre-copy of it, saying, okay,
it shows they told witnesses what
was coming up with Congress.
And they told people who was going
to be subpoenaed.
And they told people what was
happening and they did a fake
investigation of Hillary.
It's bombshell, but it kind of
couches it in placid terms.
So we're going to be looking at
that as soon as it comes out
in T minus 52 minutes.
And Roger Stone will be back in
here with me as soon as it comes
out, we'll read the report here on
air in the fourth hour.
So that's coming up.
But if you want to know why they
really hate the American people
and hate Trump,
Trump was never supposed to get
into office.
They tried to cover up their
illegal spying on Trump,
turning it into Russiagate.
They were actually trying to plant
Russia stuff on him, but really,
just using the fake Russia stuff
that they've made up to spy
on the campaign.
So now they're being hoisted
on their own spear.
And now the IG report is out.
They said it would come out at
three o'clock Eastern,
maybe two o'clock Central,
but it just came out.
So there it is, boom,
so an hour early.
So go ahead and print that off for
me so we'll cover.
Oversight, integrity, guidance.
Well, the Office of the Inspector
General has been showing more of
the integrity than we've seen from
Rosenstein and McCabe and
these people.
I mean, it's unbelievable.
So that's all coming up.
In fact, guys, let's post that
to Infowars.com.
Have Don Salazar, Kit, or one of
the other, Mr. McBrain,
McBrain's son works here.
I normally don't let people's kids
work in the building,
but so many of them are so good,
like Travis Knight's so awesome.
He works here, David Knight's his
dad, Kellan McBrain works here,
one of the guys.
When you get him to post that,
or whoever can post it,
Infowars.com, but we'll see
exactly what all is in there,
though people have already seen it
and basically broke it down.
Also, NHS picking up the pieces
of mental illness epidemic
caused by social media.
Well, in Telegraph,
how many years ago did we tell you
that it's designed to make you
mentally ill?
We're going to break it all down,
but I thought I would play this
because they hate it.
Remember, it's all confirmed.
You've got Clapper and Brennan on
TV saying, okay, we spied on Trump.
But it's for his own good.
You've got Bill Maher saying,
we didn't spy on you,
we just surveilled you because
you're a damn Russian.
Remember, that was a week ago.
So they're really having to spin
all this after all these years
saying we're insane.
Well, the truth is Clapper and
Brennan and Schumer shot their
mouths off and said,
we've got intelligence on Trump.
He will never even get inaugurated.
He's out of here.
So now The Hill can report,
we told you two years ago,
latest scandal revelations raised
questions on Obama agency's roles.
Yeah, we told you Trump was being
spied on before he was even elected.
Because we have the information,
we have the research,
we are ahead of the curve.
That's what we do.
We set the agenda.
We're history's actors now.
We want the people to be history's
actors, leaky, sneaky, and freaky.
One's a little hobbyist.
The other two are just total lying,
obfuscating, arrogant.
I mean, take Brennan telling Trump,
two days before he is inaugurated,
watch your mouth on CNN.
The head of the CIA, and then when
Trump fired him three days later,
he said, I can't believe I've been fired.
You're a megalomaniac,
delusional fruitcake.
I've had a few former crew members
that over the years got arrogant or
whatever, and I'd say they're fired,
or you can't fire me,
this isn't really happening.
I'm like, listen, don't let the door
hit you on your old rear end.
It's the same, or you've ever had
one of your teenagers,
they got pretty good kids.
So don't think a little smart mouth.
You're not going to really not let
me go to that concert.
You're not going to really not let
me go to my friend's house for
the movies.
I'm like, yeah,
get your butt in your room.
And the next day they apologize,
but those are children,
these are adults doing this.
So here's why they hate us,
ladies and gentlemen,
because we're right.
They have egg all over their face
on every front, here it is.
>> And now Republicans,
you're the Alex Jones party.
There is literally nothing too
stupid and conspiratorial that you
will not swallow.
Some tweeted, terrible,
just found out that Obama had my
wires tapped in Trump Tower just
before the victory.
Nothing found, this is McCarthyism.
And the other one, how low has
President Obama gone to tap my
phones during the very
sacred election process?
>> And this weekend we saw another
example of that when White House
Counselor Kellyanne Conway was
asked if she had any proof for
Trump's outlandish claim that
Obama wiretapped him during
the campaign and
offered this bizarre answer.
>> How does he know that his phone
was actually tapped?
>> Let me answer that globally.
He's the President of
the United States.
He has information and
intelligence that the rest of us
do not.
>> He's suggesting a US President
enlisted a foreign intelligence
service to spy on a political
adversary.
That is an explosive charge.
>> This is a serious allegation.
This might be the most serious
allegation any president has made
against a previous president.
>> But this is a very serious
allegation for a sitting president
to make about his predecessor.
>> The craziest thing about Trump
calling for an investigation
without any evidence, zero evidence.
Trump has not produced a shred
of evidence.
>> There was no evidence for
Trump's claims.
>> The evidence did not come.
>> So where did Trump get his info?
From the CIA?
From the FBI?
>> Where are you getting this
information?
>> From a very reputable source.
>> What, the FBI, the CIA?
>> Info Wars, it's a radio show
hosted by Alex Jones.

>> You know he's legit.
>> This bizarre circular thing
happening where the President
cites a theory that he was
wiretapped, which developed on
the kind of fringe right-wing
media.
And then after his tweet storm,
Info Wars then started saying,
well, look, it was the New York
Times that reported it, citing
our story, misreading our story.
And now a few weeks later,
the White House and the President
are citing Info Wars.
So they've got one kind of bizarre
right-wing fringe theory to defend
another bizarre right-wing
fringe theory.
>> The crazier it gets,
the more they like it.
That's their jam.
>> No, we're not under your mind
control.
See, if I was Stormtroopers, and
Obi-Wan Kenobi, and the droids
came by, and they're the exact
ones I'm looking for, and he says
these aren't the droids you're
looking for, I blast him.
See, that didn't work on me.
I'm like Jabba the Hutt.
Jedi mind tricks don't work on me.
Teeny Jedi.
They were all over the news
salivating to their criminals and
government going, don't worry,
Trump will never get in.
We were spying on him, and
Obama is delivering all the data to
other agencies to stay behind and
stop him even if he gets in.
And I'm like, my God,
they're admitting.
Yeah, back that up.
Let's go to break with this.
They admitted my source is them.
And then they tried this game of,
well, you didn't really see
the cover of the New York Times
that said that, though it did.
Here, here, let's go out to break.
Here it is, here it is.
>> Let me see your identification.
>> You don't need to see
his identification.
>> We don't need to see
his identification.
>> He's on the droids.
>> You're looking for him.
>> He's on the droids,
we're looking for him.
>> You can go about his business.
>> Really?
>> Bacon Lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon,
no refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging
provides ten years shelf life and
protects the leanest,
thickest, center cut, fully cooked
bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch
or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for
your everyday use.
Order today at
readytoeatbacon.com.
Readytoeatbacon.com.
>> This is Dan Pilla.
Do you have the IRS money you
can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS
for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and
I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement
and I'm telling you,
there's no such thing as
a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get
free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time
to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or
my website, danpilla.com.
>> Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries,
high blood pressure, and
high cholesterol levels may not be
fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy,
blood sugar spikes and drops,
poor circulation, and
irregular heartbeat are just a few
of these that can alert you that
something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract
is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives
across America.
>> My blood pressure has
normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
>> Everyone is telling me now how
much healthier I look and
I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and
body extract to everyone.
>> Anybody over 40 in
the North American continent
should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their
cardiovascular system healthy.
>> Order your two month supply
today by calling 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305.
Or order online,
HBextract.com,
heart and body extract,
866-295-5305 or HBextract.com.
>> Do you realize that when you
spread the links from Infowars.com,
when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary
and the globalists.
It is you, the Infowarriors across
the planet, that stood against
the bullying, that stood against
the peer pressure,
that stood against the threats,
that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on
the team, supporting us, praying
for us, and spreading the word.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their
intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to Infowars.com/newsletter
and sign up via email.
So there's no way the censors can
get between us with critical
videos, articles, breaking news,
intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you,
more than ever, to share
the Infowars.com articles,
the videos, to tell people about
the local stations you're listening
to, the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter
at Infowars.com/newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and
we are winning.
>> We've taken thousands of years
of known research and
put it together with our own four
years of seeking and testing to
find the very best systems that God
gave us through Mother Nature to
detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing
Z-Shield, toxic metal and
chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds
from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the
body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I
personally have been taking for
over a year, and now we believe we
have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself,
you owe it to your family, and
you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots
stay as healthy and as clean and
as focused as you can be.
Because we need you,
the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires to
the next level and to be healthy
and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and
your prayers, together,
we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies
with Z-Shield and InfoWarsLife.com.

>> You're listening to
the Alex Jones Show.




>> We're back live,
coming up the next hour,
we've got the full AG report,
it's posted to NewsWars.com and
InfoWars.com.
And it is a doozy,
we're scanning over it.
It already been leaked out to
Judicial Watch and CNN.
And we're going to be going over
all of it.
And it's pretty much what we
thought it was going to be.
But it's bombshell, but
it's couched in basically,
sophistic terms.
And we'll get more into it later
in the hour as well.
But Comey's actions in the Clinton
case departed clearly and
dramatically from FBI department
norms.
That's a nice way of saying it was
illegal, and colluded, and
hurt the perception of the FBI.
But they weren't the result of
political bias, total horsemaneer.
Specifically, it was not Comey's
job to publicly proclaim what
a reasonable prosecutor should do
in the Clinton case.
Tied between a fair having FBI
officials Peter Strzok and
Lisa Page did have political bias.
But the AG found evidence that
improper considerations affected
their investigative actions.
That's right.
They're all just getting paid by
their bosses to set up the whole
fake report and do all that.
And it just goes on from there.
So, these are all just the white
washes going on.
But more is coming out,
ladies and gentlemen.
Now, Dr.
Sheba is a scientist, inventor,
inventor of email.
He forgot the title of that,
literally.
He's the guy who put the term
email and
codified into that system.
And he is running against
Elizabeth Warren,
who will not do the genetic test.
The tribes say she has no
connection to in Oklahoma or
other areas.
But he's a real Indian from
the subcontinent India.
But he's a great patriot.
I'd love to get him in the US
Senate.
But regardless, he is reaching
tens of millions of people in
the interviews he's doing and
what he's doing.
But boy, they've been censoring
him saying he can't put up his
political signs, even if he pays
for it, it's getting crazy.
So we're part of the 34 hour
broadcast right now going to him
to cover what he's been doing,
what's been happening.
But then expanding,
he's a smart guy on some great
technology ideas he has.
And then the blue wave turning
into a blue backwash of toilet
bowl cleaner.
And then you've got the red
tsunami now with all these anti
Trump Republicans being swept out
in special elections.
We're going to look at all that.
What are they going to do if
the trends of the Civil War,
that when a Republican has
the presidency after his first two
years, the Democrats take control
of the House or Senate or both.
Because all the evidence is
pointing towards that not
happening, but remember they got
an old ace up the sleeve and
a couple other cards, five or
six aces.
So they're going to try to steal
the election as they've already
done.
But Dr. Sheba Ayodhya Ray,
thanks for joining us with some
big breaking exclusive news.
>> Yeah, great to be here, Alex.
I think I may just hit my camera.
How are you?
>> I'm good, man.
It's good to see your smiling face
there.
Where do you want to start?
The blue wave turning into
a fizzle, your big announcement,
the censorship you're facing,
North Korea,
there's so much to cover.
>> We can start anywhere because
they're all interconnected, right?
You touch one part,
it connects to everything else.
Maybe we should just start with
the free speech thing, Alex.
>> Yes.
>> because that's where we left
off last time.
Last time we were on, Alex,
we shared with you and
your audience that we got this big
sign out here, you may see it,
only the real Indian can defeat
the fake Indian.
It's a very powerful meme, Alex,
and I want to really explain why
it's so powerful and
why we put it out there.
Because it really is an expression
of not only my anger, but
pretty much everyone's anger at
the corruption that is taking
place in government.
Elizabeth Warren is a face of
that corruption.
So when we put that signage up on
our bus, the city of Cambridge,
which is supposed to be the most
liberal haven on the planet,
said we had to take it down.
That was on April 5th, 2018.
We didn't do that.
In fact, we retaliated hard and
we sued them,
took them to federal court and
we won.
They surrendered completely and
then based on that,
we dismissed the court case.
Obviously, the mainstream media
did not want to cover our victory.
So what we realize, Alex,
the big news is this, and
this is something that's really,
really important.
You see, for far too long,
the establishment has made politics
essentially an audience sport,
right?
They do not want the everyday
citizen to actually be involved in
that aspect, right?
because they don't want to give
power back to the people.
>> They don't want people in
the arena.
>> They don't want people in
the arena.
They want to make it the old
Hollywood celebrity culture.
You put a couple of people on
pedestals and
we're supposed to watch them and
eat our popcorn.
So what we've done here, Alex,
is that's becoming really powerful
is we figured out the victory
to winning.
And that aha moment came,
every time we take the bus out,
Alex, people just love our
campaign.
You guys can see, I think,
several months ago in the St.
Patrick's Day parade,
millions saw us, millions of
people are cheering us on.
We went to the Bunker Hill Day
parade recently with the bus.
And what happened was this is
an enclave of both, quote unquote,
liberals and working class people
unanimously, except for probably
5% of the people,
people loved that slogan.
I mean, talk about market focus
groups.
And what we realized was people
say, you know what, you guys have
a lot of courage to put that out
there because you're bringing out
something in Massachusetts that
people do not want to talk about.
So the bus is essentially,
it's weaponized.
It's a weaponized way of getting
across our message.
So what we've done is if you see
these magnetic signs here,
they're really easy.
So we want to replicate this all
over the state, Alex, in fact,
all over the country.
And basically, people can buy
these magnetic signs, you can see
as you're showing, being put on.
And where since we launched,
we have tons of people starting to
write and wanting these, and
why is that?
And the reality is when
Elizabeth Warren,
it's not about identity, right?
The liberals want to convert it to
a race issue, but
it has nothing to do with race.
It has to do with integrity.
We're talking about someone who
did not work hard, who cut in line.
You, me, Alex, and pretty much
every American watching your show
works for a living.
I mowed lawns as a kid,
learned to engineer software as
a kid, as a 14-year-old kid,
have been working all my life.
But Elizabeth Warren cut in front
of line, and
they do not want to discuss that.
The one out of 100 who do not like
our signage are the vocal minority
of what I call white liberal racists
or liberal racists right now.
>> Exactly, and
we'll talk about this more when we
get back, this is so important.
It's like Rachel Dozell saying
she's African American when she
doesn't have one drop of black
blood in her.
She goes and puts creams on,
frizzes her hair out,
makes her kid look like the kid's
black.
These people are sick because
they're the ones pushing this whole,
really a new caste system where if
you're one of these protected
groups, you're better than
everybody.
So I want to specifically talk
about that, but yeah,
Warren is a fraud, please continue.
>> Yes, so we are bringing up not
just the race issue because for
far too long down the street as
Harvard University, the white
liberal racists who want us to
keep us all on their reservation
and plantation have bounded
the discussion of race, Alex.
And they don't know what to do
with us because when we bring up
that sign, they'll say, that's
racist, we'll say really.
And we'll flip it back and
we say, look, you're the racist
because you're supporting a woman
who took advantage of race to get
in and when she's not of that race.
So it's an amazing discussion,
Alex, we should come back.
Important things we should talk
about this, the big announcement
is, here's an opportunity for
every citizen.
>> We're going to talk about
the big announcement straight
ahead because you've got me
thinking your announcement is so
smart that I've got an angle on
this when we come back with Dr.
Shiva, stay with us.

>> We call it the crapper,
water closet, outhouse or
bathroom.
But where do you go when there's
nowhere to go?
The answer is the biffy bag.
The biffy bag is a pocket size
disposable toilet that fits in
your glove box, tackle box,
toolbox, backpack or purse.
The biffy bag has everything you
need for a sanitary and
comfortable relief experience.
It's ready to use in just seconds
and just toss it in the trash when
you're done.
It's your biffy in a jiffy,
biffybag.com, B-I-F-F-Y-B-A-G.com.
>> This is Dan Pilla,
do you owe the IRS money you
can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS
for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and
I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement
and I'm telling you, there's no
such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get
free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time
to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX,
that's 800-34-NO-TAX or
my website, danpilla.com.

>> Alex Jones here with an
extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight
the globalist limit of free society.
Several years ago,
I set out with top formulators in
the US to create the strongest,
most concentrated, over the top
stamina, libido, workout,
brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself
the last few months and
from seeing my friends and
family use it, that this new product
is gonna end up being the number one
best selling product at
Infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you wanna give
yourself and then rest assured,
you're fighting the Infowar so
it's a total, absolute, sure win,
no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively
available at Infowarslife.com for
yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for
sports, it's for activities, and
it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at
Infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power
today.
>> I wanna plow into all of this,
but I'm gonna spend a few minutes
here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when
you buy t-shirts or water
filtration systems or books,
or videos, or other material from
Infowarsstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you
purchase the products at
Infowarsstore.com.
I wanna thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride
free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high quality atomic
iodine in it, you cannot beat that.
For children and adults,
we've got the best mouthwash
designed by Dr. Jones, that's my
dad, with colloidal silver and
iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or
AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with
America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and
their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and
they know we know who they are, and
they're coming back against us, so
we need your support.

>> Years ago, Infowarslife created
the powerful MycoZx formula to
help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and
more toxins were pumped into
the environment, our team knew we
had to create a bigger and
better formula to help support
your gut health.
MycoZx+ is the result of the search
for that formula, a unique natural
formula designed to support the
body's natural cleansing of yeast
and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help
your body fight back.
MycoZx+ helps support a healthy
microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract, and
addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes
bad.
With an impressive list of
ingredients, including grapefruit
seed extract, pau d'arco bark, and
grape seed extract, our formula is
fueled by ingredients that stood
the test of time as powerful
micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and
improved MycoZx+ today at
infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.


>> You're listening to
the Alex Jones Show.

We now take you live to the Central
Texas Command Center and
the heart of the resistance,
rallying patriots worldwide.

You're listening to
the Alex Jones Show.

>> Well, stand up and
be counted for
what you're about to receive.
We are the dealers.
We'll give you everything you need.
Hang on to the good times.

Dr. Sheeva's our guest,
great guy running for Senate.
Got a shot at winning, and
Elizabeth Warren,
really a smart engineer,
very successful businessman.
Inventor of email, look it up,
it's true, it's crazy.
FBI agent Strzok reportedly texted,
we'll stop Trump from becoming
president.
Wow, and he's working for
that special group under McCabe.
And Comey,
dedicated to fixing the intelligence.
This is back 2015, 2016,
spying on him to keep him from
becoming president.
That's a quote in the report,
it's up on newswars.com,
infowars.com.
Comey broke from FBI procedures and
Clinton probes.
So I've scanned over this and
so has Judicial Watch and others.
And they're saying,
the tone is very wishy-washy and
Comey didn't do anything illegal,
but they did collude and
Comey did use his private server.
And Strzok did it and
they were trying to keep Trump
from getting a dox.
So they're basically admitting a
lot of the horrible things that
went on, but then saying,
that's not illegal.
Well, that sounds kind of criminal
to me that they're putting out
a report sitting in judgment like
they're a jury.
When clearly, FBI folks under
the Democrats, all 13 of them
Democrats, launching these type of
operations to try to keep the now
president from being elected,
it just proves everything,
regardless of the criminality and
it's all there.
So next hour we're going through
this with Roger Stone in studio.
We are now what, six, seven,
eight hours into the 34 hour
global broadcast we're doing.
Fall the deep state, by the way,
it's President Trump's.
Should have just called this when
I picked this date because the AG
report was coming out to do a 34
hour broadcast from 8 AM right
through to the next day at 6 PM.
And we go live 8 AM to 6 PM every
day we're expanding the broadcast.
We're trying to work out new hosts
and hiring and
the funding for that right now.
But the fall of the deep state and
happy birthday, Mr. President.
We're not going to sing him happy
birthday like Marilyn Monroe and
I hate to gush because I'm not
into celebrities and stuff.
It's very freeing to not care
about celebrities or Hollywood or
status just for status sake.
But Trump delivering on so
many fronts is really almost
messianic at this point, but
it shows how bad the globalists
were trying to make us poor,
trying to divide us,
trying to control us.
It's in all the WikiLeaks,
it's just they were evil.
So it's like going to somebody's
house, they were feeding you dog
food with warm water on it.
And then you went to a nice
restaurant, you're like, my God,
why are these enchiladas or
why is this lasagna so delicious?
Well, because you've been eating
dog food.
I mean, yeah, Trump's a great
chef, got a lot of courage,
got a lot done, but
he's just reversing set garbage.
From a very optimistic research
perspective of a real go-getter and
proving it with pleasure as
a businessman like Dr. Sheba Ayodere.
So Dr. Sheba,
you've got a big announcement,
it's very exciting.
I've talked about this.
You put an InfoWars sticker on
your car in conservative or
libertarian areas, you're probably
going to get high fives all day.
But you do it in a blue state area
like Austin, Texas or LA or
San Francisco,
you might get your car keyed.
That's why we sell t-shirts,
they're just Moe on Lave,
leftists can't hardly speak English,
they don't know what Latin is,
come and take it.
We have t-shirts that are safe to
wear, we're only patriots that you
identify with, it's a great way to
get the word out.
But if you were an InfoWars shirt
or a Pinch 2020, without me even
asking or two, one of my oldest
daughter, one of her friends was on
the trip, they were both walking
around wearing Trump 2020 shirts.
They weren't even from
InfoWarsWare.com,
they got them somewhere else.
That's the cool thing to do at
their high school,
one of them goes to public school,
the other goes to private.
My daughter has a friend who
goes to public school.
That's the big rage, even in Austin
where the young people is to be pro
Trump because their parents are
the old weird liberals.
We're not bashing old people,
this idea that liberals are the
young, avant garde,
Rolling Stones so hip,
the Oscars are so hip.
It's watching paint dry,
open your wrist folks.
So it's Generation Z is super
libertarian, they're not
conservative, they're just
counterculture.
So we'll get more to the AG report
with you in the next segment, but
right now the big announcement
because I've actually said this a
few months ago and
I haven't got around to doing it.
We're going to design small,
medium and large magnet decals
like you've done, so you can put
it on the side of your car,
reach 1,000 people when you go to
work in a major city, small town,
100, whatever.
And then just take it off when you
get to work or wherever,
throw it in your vehicle.
And then that way you have the cake
and eat it too.
Well, you've got a plan to bypass
them and defeat her.
And I think, and I know we've got
tens of thousands of listeners in
Massachusetts conservatively
listening.
Obviously over the years,
millions have tuned in,
in that great state.
We've had a few affiliates there.
Everyone listening,
this plan you have is excellent to
put this magnetized decal that
doesn't do it in your paint,
comes right off easily.
Tell folks about your big plan,
it's very, very exciting.
>> Yeah, so basically the idea is,
people want to participate.
The establishment always wants to
make people be onlookers.
That's part of the establishment
goal.
And so it's always a little bit of
hesitancy to go interact.
For example, when we go out to
parades and we distribute cards,
Alex, and we get our first set of
volunteers, they're always a little
bit shy.
And then they get this connection
with people, people look at them in
the eye, people start conversing.
And that's when we get back to
being human beings again.
So the goal here is,
we want to have about 10,000 people
on the ground.
Your car is an amazing opportunity
to advertise, right?
It's just a wonderful opportunity.
You put these magnetic signs on,
like you said, they can come off,
come on.
But you start a dialogue.
When people drive around with
these magnetic signs,
people will honk, people pull over,
we give them cards, but
you start having discourse.
And the vocal minority who start
yelling or screaming at it,
it's a great opportunity to have
another discourse and
really talk about politics,
which the establishment doesn't
want us to do, right?
>> Because these are bullies
shutting speech down on the Internet,
on the colleges, the high schools,
and just exercising it as
a revolutionary act.
Telling the truth in a world
of universal deceit is
a revolutionary act.
To paraphrase Eric Blair,
aka George Orwell, exactly.
It is an act of resistance.
>> It's an act of resistance, but
more importantly,
to have a dialogue.
So Sunday was a Bunker Hill Day
parade.
That's when the American Revolution,
after the shot in Lexington was
shot, really took off.
And here we went there,
50,000 people.
And before we were going there,
Alex, we had to take our bus
through Harvard Square, right in
front of Harvard Law School,
where Elizabeth Warren used to
hold her professorship.
And this Harvard Law student comes
out and starts yelling at us,
saying that's racist.
And I turn around and say,
what are you talking about
that's racist?
I said, you're the racist because
you're condoning Elizabeth Warren
who took advantage of race.
And I said, furthermore, I said,
you have put a bound on what
racism is.
If I do or if I do not use
the N word, or if I change
the name of some building,
then I'm not a racist.
I said, you guys are the racist.
>> That's right, they use race to
control, just like all racists
have always done.
To change the subject, you got poor
white sharecroppers versus black
slaves playing against each other.
It's the same story of divide and
conquer over and over again.
>> Yeah, and what's interesting is
when we put this out,
we had some guy come on to my
Twitter feed and say,
you are a curry Indian.
I don't know if I can use the N
word here, can I, Alex,
on your show?
Probably not, right?
I don't know, let's not do it.
>> Okay, well, he said you're
a curry Indian N, okay?
So I responded back on Twitter and
you can see it because it was
a response.
And I said, let me be accurate,
we're all Ns on the deep state,
on the white liberal deep state
reservation, which went viral.
My point is a person of my
background who's been an American,
who's worked hard and
who's struggled,
has a unique opportunity.
And all of us should take advantage
of the fact that I'm running to
really expand the discussion of
race and realize that it's
the deep state which wants to pit
poor whites against poor blacks.
They thrive on race war.
So this putting this on is not
about race, but
it's really about integrity.
And it really goes- >> That's right,
and they think they own the whole
race debate to promulgate it,
to make it worse.
Then they're the high priest that
program what is racist, what isn't,
actually covering up real inequity
and real problems.
So here's the big call to action.
How do folks,
even if they're not in
Massachusetts, how do they get one
of these babies?
>> It's very easy.
You just go to shiva4senate.com.
You can find it right there.
It's called a Road Warrior kit.
Go to the store,
get the Road Warrior kit.
We've made it.
You get two magnetic stickers,
get a lawn sign,
you get two bumper stickers.
>> My God, you gotta call this
Operation Road Warrior.
Is that what you're calling it?
>> That's what I call it.
It's called Road Warrior.
Be a Road Warrior.
That's getting back.
So if you can't come to and
pass out cards, you can't do
anything, you got family.
>> Hey, I'm fully supporting this.
But I am stealing the idea.
We're going to launch Operation
Road Warrior with our stuff too.
>> Guaranteeing your food
independence is a crucial part
of prepping.
Between debt crisis,
natural disasters, or
even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals
is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select
storable food, you can make sure
you and your family are ready for
any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals
in amounts ranging from 72 hours
to a full year, there's no better
place to look for healthy, easy,
and incredible meals.
Including meals such as
Traveler Stew, Homestyle Potato
Soup, and a variety of other
meals for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner, InfoWars Life Select
storable food will help you eat
comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go,
and you have easy-to-cook and
transport food for you and your
loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised
by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for
an affordable price with InfoWars
Life Select storable foods.
>> Living in volcano may sound
more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here
in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to
be concerned about ash and
acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain
heavy metal particles, and acid
rain could lower the pH of the
water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series
of tests for heavy metals,
alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there
was, in fact, unhealthy levels of
heavy metals and acidity in the
rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from
our AlexaPure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal
levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored
to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on
the AlexaPure raises the pH
of the water.
So what we've learned is that
volcanic ash and acid rain can
contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good
water filtration system will
purify it.
This is the last week to get
free shipping on all of our
bestselling items at
InfowarsStore.com.
We also have some of the biggest
sales in our history on super
high quality supplements and
other products at InfowarsStore.com
as well as InfowarsLife.com.
Bode's Ultimate Turmeric
Formula has the strongest
curcumin level of any
other brand you're going to find
out there at 95%.
Leading competitors have a
curcumin level of 3%.
From there, we've got dozens and
dozens and dozens of other game
changing products that you and
your family will absolutely love
and will help support the
broadcast.
It is critical that you go to
InfowarsStore.com and look
at some of those items for
yourself, whether it's water
filtration, air filtration,
non-GMO heirloom seeds, X2,
it's all there at
InfowarsStore.com or
InfowarsLife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is
just as important as staying
healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't
work fast enough.
That's why InfowarsLife has
created a powerful new addition
to the Super Blue line.
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1 ounce, 3 and a
half ounce and 16 ounce
bottles, Immune Gargle is
perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying
formula is dentist recommended
for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or
oral cleansing formula, just a
small spray will help you stay
clean when you feel surrounded
by toxins.
With powerful yet simple
ingredients, Immune Gargle
features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing
alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune
Gargle, staying toxin free is
easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins
and stay healthy with Super Blue
Silver Immune Gargle.
Only available at
Infowarslife.com.
That's Infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex
Jones Show.
I've got a tiger in my tail,
it's plain to see.
I won't be much when you get
through with me.
He never gives up.
He's Alex Jones, broadcasting
from deep in the heart of Texas,
worldwide.
Well I thought one day I met
you, you weren't with me.
>> Coming up in the next hour,
it's going to be Doug Hagman,
who's a great crime expert,
getting into the AG report.
And then the hour after that,
we'll get off the war room,
Roger Stone gets into it.
But it's bad,
it's what we already knew.
But more emails, more text
messages, Comey using his own
private email, giving people
advance warning they were going to
be called to testify, but
it's trying to fix evidence.
FBI agent Strzok reportedly texted
we'll stop Trump from becoming
president.
That's all being reported,
go to infowars.com.
And infowars.com along with the AG
report if you want to go try to
read the 500 pages for yourself.
We're talking to Dr.
Sheba running for
Senate in Massachusetts against
the fake Native American,
Elizabeth Warren, aka Pocahontas.
Continuing, ladies and
gentlemen, though, we're three
hours into this broadcast almost
and I'm barely plugged.
We're doing a 34 hour broadcast to
cover all the big news, to expand
what we're doing to get some of
the new crew trained.
We're going to start adding more
shows here very soon.
That takes money.
And I'm discounting a lot of our
products so much because when I
go really, really low on these
products, people that hadn't tried
them try them, then they become
customers because they like them,
they love them.
Infowarsstore.com, we have had for
a couple of weeks free shipping
on a bunch of our best selling
items, more than 20 items.
And that has got to end this
weekend, so it will end on Monday.
A lot of these special stuff to
end regardless because we're
running low on X tube, 50% off the
good halogen deep earth crystal
source.
It's amazing, find out about the
iodine conspiracy folks.
X tube 50% off with free shipping,
that is close to a loss leader.
Sign up for auto ship,
additional 10% off.
There's 5% on each order that goes
to your account on infowarsstore.com.
Patriot points, it just goes on and
on.
All orders $50 or more have free
shipping, but more than 20% off
more than 20 items.
Even some of them are like 14 bucks
like oil silver they have free
shipping as well.
The real red pill plus now with
energy we have the original red pill
and red pill plus it has the energy
as well.
Silver bullet little silver 50% off
they sell the same stuff at Whole
Foods for $25.
At 14 you can't get a better deal,
it's really good.
Alpha power is really something
people should try, very concentrated.
It's got energy, stamina, focus,
libido, it's everything.
It's really strong though.
So word of the wise super male,
female vitality is amazing.
So similar formula but cold pressed
not as strong at you know the ratio
of how much of it's in there, but
it's cold press so it's a different
animal.
That's amazing DNA force all of
itself folks that's a big deal.
PQQ, Bio, CoQ10 all of it you
really cannot find a formula better
at this price.
It's DNA force plus now with more
in each bottle and a lower price.
Because we signed a big contract
to guarantee buy a ton of it so
other leading brands are 200,
300, $400.
They have seven times markup for
PQQ, Bio, PQQ, CoQ10 all of it.
This ladies and gentlemen is 74.95.
It's a flagship product and
it supports a broadcast.
You and your family really need
to check it out.
Nerve growth factor, it doesn't
make telomeres grow, it makes them
not shrink as fast which is the
same thing.
It's potentially a little bit
more expensive.
It's potato, potato half full half
empty.
Immune wall 50% off it's amazing
pollen block proprietary got to
try that.
Infoworkstore.com go read the
reviews there's a few of them.
Brain Force Plus I take supplement
daily for a year and a half now.
Amazing mental and focus all day
reduce my office intake to one cup
of coffee a day.
That's a reviewer Dean in
undisclosed location.
DNA Force Plus.
This is the real game changer.
I got much more energy and my mind
is much clearer.
My vision is much clearer.
Everything feels like brand new.
Each and every one of my cells are
much more efficient and I can feel
it.
Floralife review that reviews
Marino out of Montreal Canada.
This is Marcia in Michigan five
star review.
There's tens of thousands of these
on power reviews.
The product is very effective and
very gentle at the same time.
I have used various products before
throughout the years but these are by
far the most effective and gentle.
I saw immediate results in receiving
abdominal discomfort and non bloating
stop bloating.
I took it along with Carnivore.
That's an enzyme we've got for
helping digest meat and they both
work like a charm.
Thank you Infoworks.
And it just goes on and on.
Go read about Silver Bullet.
Go read about Immune Wallet.
They did a really great job printing
me some of these because there's so
many of these reviews but go read
about the other reviews.
Your support flies in the face of
censorship, the attacks, everything
they're doing.
They're in a 34 hour broadcast.
Please commit to financially support
us because I am having to look at
trying to hire more talk show hosts,
more people to run the board,
more investigative journalists,
having to expand our legal obviously.
The Democrat plan to misrepresent
what I've said and done on a bunch
of issues and sue me seven ways a
Sunday.
The good news is they've now sued
me seven times.
They're going to sue me seven times.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
I'm going to sue them.
>> We are not the enemy of the people we love.

>> This is CNN.
>> You are the resistance.
>> I just felt like I walked up to the star cheerleader when I was a freshman in high school and asked the senior cheerleader out on a date and she said yes.
So those little feelings of ecstasy when your brain releases a little bit of endorphin.
I just -- I hadn't seen that promo piece that I had the idea for this morning.
But the guys did a great job putting it together.
And I just had a brain orgasm.
I mean, I'm not kidding.
I just -- oh, ooh, excuse me.
Oh, my gosh.
Look at this.
Viva la resistance.
Mueller team attorney sent anti-Trump text.
As we go through the 500 pages.
This is the daily caller.com.
It's up on infowars.com.
I was going to leave but I'm just here taking over.
I want to do a whole show with Hagman soon.
He's going to be working with us.
Hagman is awesome.
I want to hear his breakdown on this.
His law enforcement sources are amazing.
But you've got this.
Trump will never be elected.
I mean, this is just getting more and more insane.
And as Trump succeeds showing they were artificially suppressing things.
I don't want to say Trump was like, you know, the second coming or whatever.
But the truth is Trump is just not out to get us.
And he's got courage and stamina and is smart.
But he's removing the artificial criminality where they want to make us poor.
That's the essence of globalism.
CNN, MSNBC, Netflix, news shows, Bill Maher, HBO saying we want to implode the economy.
We want nuclear war to stop Trump.
They've entered cuckoo land.
Doug Hagman, I'm done.
You take over of hagmanreport.com, my friend.
Hey, thanks, Alex.
Appreciate it.
What you were just referencing there, by the way, the messages that were expunged, the page struck messages.
It was a reference to an exchange that took place on August 8, 2016, between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok.
And basically, here's what happened.
The inspector general found messages that were expunged and, of course, reported on these messages to the Department of Justice, actually the office of the deputy attorney general just last month.
And what was expunged or taken out of that exchange of August 8, 2016, of these two FBI swamp creatures, again, struck and page, was the exchange.
And I'm looking at my notes here.
Lisa Page saying he's not going to become president.
No, no, we're going to stop him.
Is what was erased from the messages that were given.
And doesn't that create the criminal intent that they are erasing evidence of them in their official capacity, saying we're politically not going to let him get elected using our official capacity?
I mean, that is criminal civil rights violations.
Every citizen that's a voter has been attempted to be disenfranchised.
This is huge.
Well, exactly.
It does show criminal intent.
Now, you've got to prove on a legal basis criminal intent.
But certainly that, to me, is prima facie evidence of legal intent or of the legal definition of intent if I've ever seen it.
I'm not an attorney, but working with attorneys, you can see that there's a plan going on that we're going to stop.
We're going to develop a fake plan to stop him from getting elected in our official capacity, and then we're going to erase it later.
Exactly.
People have got to understand, too, that this does not -- that exchange was removed not from the technical error that they supposedly had between December 2015 or December 15, 2016.
Oh, I've forgotten the error.
And then, of course, it wasn't an error.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Which is another crime, the FBI lying and saying it had all been removed by error when it wasn't, which is a more fraud.
Precisely.
So where are these text messages?
I guess you could go down to the NSA and grab a copy if you really need to.
But the bottom line, yeah, this -- first of all, you've got two issues.
You've got the December 15, 2016 issue through May 17, 2017, coincidentally the day that Mueller was appointed special counsel, that are missing.
But outside of that, the expungement or the extraction of that one sentence that does prove criminal intent, in my view, that should be used as the basis of criminal prosecution, again, in my view, not being a lawyer.
To continue, I just -- wild horses can't drag me away.
And we're just going through this.
And when you come back, you'll get more into it.
Do you agree with me, and I haven't read the whole thing yet, but I've looked at people that did analysis, I've scanned over it, that the tone is real, oh, no one's criminal, but there was intent to throw the election.
They did try to hide things.
It's like they're putting out the breadcrumbs and saying this is illegal, but not saying it because that's not their place.
Well, exactly.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Here is the report.
Right now I had my staff -- in fact, here's half of it.
The other half is still on the printer.
It's the report --
500 pages.
Yeah, it's 499 of content.
The rest is appendices and attachments.
Conciliatory, I suppose, would be a good word to describe it.
I haven't gone through the whole thing.
Listening to, of course, the various talkers out there saying, well, you know what --
But it's backhanded.
Scanning what I've scanned, it's like, oh, they're doing criminal, but they did try to fix the election and did lie and did not follow bureau and did make us look bad and our piece of filth.
Exactly.
But here's the thing.
You could probably toss this into a washing machine, and depending on who gets the laundry out of that washing machine from the spin cycle, you can spin it however.
Now, there's some pretty damning -- I think the most damning part, just from what I was able to see just really quickly here, looks like the -- and we could talk about this at some point.
But it looks like the most damning part appears to be the delay.
And this is where you and I spoke about this, the delay between the finding the emails, classified emails, with respect to the -- my goodness, the Huma Abedin emails.
And the --
And this goes back to why the FBI was punning back and forth and reopening the investigation.
So you'll have time when you come back, and I'm going to leave now.
I'll be watching while I have lunch.
You're going to break all this down.
But it looks to me like they're putting the facts in there.
They don't want to make political statements or statements of judgment, so they're punting.
But there still is some kind of obfuscation just because it's the same agency investigating itself.
Do you think that's accurate?
Right.
Yeah, I think so.
No criminal referrals yet, but we'll see.
Well, I heard -- we'll see what your sources say, that they've got working indictments ready to go to grand jury.
So we'll hear about that straight ahead with Doug Hagman of The Hagman Report.
I'm Alex Jones, NewsWars.com, NewsWars.com.
Spread those links, HagmanReport.com.
Spread that link.
Healthcare reform is confusing.
But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty HealthShare.
Liberty HealthShare is not insurance.
It is an association of self-paid patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to LibertyOnCall.org.
That's LibertyOnCall.org.
It's a no-brainer.
A big, berky water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original and most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berky.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-BERKY or BigBerkyWaterFilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-BERKEY.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from Infowars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalists.
It is you, the Infowarriors, across the planet, that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats, that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to Infowars.com/newsletter and sign up via email.
So there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the Infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at Infowars.com/newsletter.
We are the renaissance. And we are winning.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide. Thanks for calling.
Hey, Alex, mate. I've been following you since I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Infowars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen, and I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet.
And I thought it was pretty cool. And I read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the Supermail Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, Micro ZX, Body. It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew, and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
Living in Volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our AlexaPure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the AlexaPure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Live, raw, and unfiltered by globalist propaganda.
It's The Alex Jones Show. Tomorrow's news today.
Infowars.com. Doug Hagman sitting in for Alex Jones.
Thank you so much for tuning in. It's a pleasure to be hosting Doug Hagman again for Infowars.
My website, HagmanReport.com.
And right now, it's a historic day. Aside from being day 511 of the Donald Trump presidency,
it is also Donald Trump's birthday, it's Flag Day, and it's the much-awaited, it's the day of the much-awaited OIG report.
Here it is right here. It's been released. It's 568 pages with attachments and appendices, 499 pages of content.
And I have not read through the report, so why would I even be talking about the report?
Obviously, it just came out prior to airtime. There's been a lot of leaks with respect to the report,
but the report itself just came out before I came on, a little bit before I came on.
But it's a product of an 18-month investigation by the inspector general, a review of the FBI DOJ,
the investigation of the Hillary Clinton email.
This particular inquiry, this investigative work product is specifically looking into whether the FBI,
whether the Department of Justice was corrupted by the political influence in their determination of the Clinton outcome.
End of story. The IG report provides background on the overall issues, the potential crimes,
the subsequent cover-up, and the corruption that infested the 2016 Department of Justice and the FBI.
Now, you're going to have a lot of people out there attempting to spin this in every different direction,
rip it apart, saying, "Oh, it's nothing." They're going to call it a nothing burger, of course.
They're going to say, "Well, it's not rooted in political bias."
But here's the bottom line. You've got a lot of top-level officials, government, political officials,
government officials, and even some within the rank and file, like, well, if you would consider Stroker Page a rank and file,
within the government, doing a lot of breaking of laws, potential Hatch Act violations, and other such problems.
Here's, I think, what we need to ask ourselves. Is this just merely only about politics?
Is this the -- what we're looking at here, did Comey, did Brennan, did Lynch, did all of these individuals,
Stroker and Page, as you see there, did they do this -- and I've talked about this before --
did they risk their jobs, but more importantly, their freedom, that being the freedom, you know, their freedom from jail,
or from indictments for seditious or potentially treasonous activity?
Did they risk it simply for Hillary Clinton to get Hillary Clinton into office?
Now, think about that question before you say, "Oh, yeah, that's all it is. Yeah, they love Hillary Clinton,
and they hated Donald Trump that much." Think about it. Did they do this only, only for political purposes?
And I would venture to say no. There is an ideology behind this, an ideology of this communist utopia that is propelling this,
the ideology of this Marxist, Stalinist, Leninist, whatever you want to call it, but it is that ideology, in my view,
that is responsible for their activities. It's much bigger than politics.
So, this weekend, when you're lounging by the pool, doing some casual reading of the OIG report,
I'm sure you will be, right, turning the pages, printing it out, or I guess on your electronic device,
think about what you're reading and think about the bigger issue, the deeper issue, dig deeper, think bigger,
about what we're looking at, because we can all take this and segment the various granular details,
and I believe we need to do that, but what's really taking place in terms of the larger picture?
And that's what I really want to say. And I was talking to Alex, and I just want to drive this point home.
It's interesting that suddenly, those people who have taken the Inspector General to task,
Michael Horowitz, saying he's an Obama plant, yes, and Paul Sperry had some interesting information
that he posted on his Twitter account, the scared Paul Sperry, the scared reporter,
about the relationships with Michael Horowitz, but think about this, it was Michael Horowitz,
Inspector General, who in fact pointed out that last month, that a sentence, a reply by Peter Strzok
to Lisa Page was omitted from the text messages that were sent to Congress.
Well, in my view, there is some integrity there, and I think that that does show the integrity of Horowitz at this point.
Now, opinions are like, you know what, right? So, analyses without reading the report would really not do you
or anyone else any favors, but you can see just from the reactions, right now I'm looking at reactions of the talkers,
I'm looking at reactions of the people such as Maddow and Matthews and, or Limbaugh on the right,
I'm looking at their reactions to assess what their take is for the purposes of advancing the narrative.
What's their narrative, whether it's on the right or on the left?
And I'm doing that without having read the report, again, because the report just came out.
The reason I mention that is it's important, in my view, it is extremely important to understand that news,
as it stands today, is nothing but a running agenda.
In other words, everyone's got an agenda, whether it's on the right or on the left, conservative or democratic socialist.
So, it's up to you, the listener, the viewer of this show, to make up your own mind based on what you read.
And I would suggest everyone listening, if you're listening or reviewing this broadcast, do yourself a favor,
download the report, the link is, you can find it everywhere, but remember, this is just one of more,
this is one of at least three such reports that are forthcoming.
And from what I've read, it is kind of damning in terms of the intent, whether or not this results in criminal indictments.
By the way, the other aspect of this, I've noticed people saying, "Well, I don't see any criminal referrals based on this report."
You're not going to find criminal referrals. That's not the purpose of this report.
This report does not make criminal referrals.
However, when this report is given to the Department of Justice, the executive branch, to be more precise, that includes Donald Trump,
it is from there that the criminal indictments or criminal referrals, more specifically, will be made.
So, if you were looking at this and expecting to see, "Well, we recommend a criminal prosecution,"
that's not what the Inspector General does, at least not as a rule.
I just want to say that the criminal referrals must come and would come from the Department of Justice or the executive branch.
So, just keep that in mind as you read this, and don't let people tear you down or tear down your positive thoughts that we could see justice
because there's the absence of recommendation for criminal referrals.
I did not expect to see any. All right? So, that's something totally different.
Folks, visit Infowarsstore.com. I want to mention this because Alex and I were talking during the break and during the show.
Look, we are under fire. The censorship issue is so incredible. It's so financially oppressive.
Please support Infowars. Go to Infowarsstore.com. I don't care what product. All of the products are great.
But look, they've got Brain Force. They've got Super Male Fatality. They've got just a number of the iodine.
My goodness, top quality products support Infowars. As you support Infowars, you're supporting this program, the mission.
You know this. So, do it now. Do it now. Just go and get yourself healthy, physically fit, and support free speech at the same time
because we are all under attack. Folks, you're listening to Infowars on this very special, very historic day, June 14, 2018,
day number 511 of the Donald Trump presidency, under attack for 378 days by special counsel, and of course, Donald Trump's birthday.
Stay with us. You're listening to Infowars. Doug Hagman will be right back.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine FloraLife Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. FloraLife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try FloraLife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
InfowarsLife and InfowarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient-dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it. Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 wind. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers, together we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield at InfowarsLife.com.
We can't extend this free shipping sale much longer with our best selling items at InfowarsStore.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few more days. We're also running out of some of our best selling items like our amazing Nootropic Rain Force.
It's $19.95. Leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good. It's a great deal normally at $39.95. Rain Force, if you've never tried it, this is a great opportunity, $19.95.
Also, Alpha Power is 50% off. If you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina, focus, libido, it does so many things.
X2, even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals of the good halogen iodine, I am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few days at 50% off.
And then after that, it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of it. InfowarsLife.com, InfowarsStore.com, or 888-253-3139.
And thank you all for helping fund the second American global revolution.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on for your mind.

You're listening to Infowars. Doug Hagman sitting in for Alex Jones. Doug Hagman, HagmanReport.com, that's my home base. Infowars, Infowars.com, that's where you need to go.
InfowarsStore to support this operation. Very proud to be sitting in for Alex.
I gotta tell you, look, we're going to be talking about the OIG report at some point, okay? It's 499 pages of content, total of 568 pages with attachments and appendices.
So it's going to take some time to go through. It just broke today, just a couple of hours ago.
Leaks, and it's important, leaks, of course, were just incredible earlier today. It's interesting how Bloomberg reported on leaks and the spinning of leaks.
But we're going to be taking this apart page by page, word by word, basically, and making sense of it.
Remember, this is just one small aspect. And remember, this is about the least, the most scandal-free presidency of our lifetimes, and that is Barack Hussein Obama.
This, I'm going to lead off with real quick here. We've got just so much news, so little time.
Sally Yates, the Department of Justice, ordered the FBI not to overtly investigate the Clinton Foundation.
Folks, Charles Rittel, he's a great researcher, talking about the Clinton Foundation. But think about this.
The Deputy Attorney General fired by President Donald Trump hamstrung federal investigators' efforts to probe the Clinton Foundation.
You're going to be hearing more about this as Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates revealed the Department of Justice instructed federal investigators to hold back opening a probe of the Clinton Foundation.
And aren't we seeing the Clinton Foundation, the incestuous relationships of the Clinton Foundation everywhere?
Seems like every time I bump into a lawsuit, somebody's associated with the Clinton Foundation.
Yeah, you know what I'm talking about.
All right, moving on here, I want to get this, because I know InfoWars spoke about this, and the coverage by InfoWars.
If you're not listening to InfoWars and watching InfoWars, you're missing out.
But I wanted to touch on this some more. How about this? Imran Awan. Remember him?
Remember the Awan brothers? Why did we stop talking about that in the community?
Of course, we didn't. We didn't, of course, but maybe you might ask Jim Acosta or one of his comrades, or did I say comrades?
One of his associates about the Awan brothers.
What I'm referring to is Imran Awan and the Awan family working for the Democrats in the House of Representatives for almost 13 years, making nearly six, I think six to seven million dollars.
And of course, allegedly having a, not just involved in a procurement scam, but also apparently, in my view, in my professional opinion, operating a breach of the servers that perhaps, again, in my opinion, could have resulted in the transfer of classified information to Pakistan.
But now we've got this. Are you ready for this? Are you sitting down?
Reported by Zero Hedge and others. In fact, this was initially done through some videography and investigative reporting by CrowdSource of the Truth, Jason Goodman.
It's an investigative journalist. Why does Imran Awan work at his Clinton-linked attorney's law firm?
Did you hear that? Did you know that Imran Awan is working at his Clinton-linked attorney's law firm?
A stunning video, a stunning video by investigative journalist Jason Goodman of CrowdSource of the Truth revealed that Pakistani IT worker Imran Awan is reportedly answering the phones, that's right, at the office of attorney Chris Gowan.
And who is Chris Gowan? Gowan is a founding partner of Gowan Roads, Winograd, and Silva, with offices in D.C. and all over the planet. Well, D.C. and Philadelphia. Their planet, anyway.
Now, it's interesting because, is this even ethical? Is this even, am I reading this right?
He also served as, by the way, Chris Gowan's official bio on the firm's website notes that he left the public defender's office to work for former President William Clinton, and then Senator Hillary Clinton.
There's Clinton again. Chris was a fact checker for President Clinton's memoir, My Life.
He also served as a traveling aide for President Clinton's national and international trips. But, the issue here, in the video, and you can see this, you can see Jason Goodman walking up to the lawyer's office.
You can be seen visiting the offices of Awan's attorney where he has to speak with the former house IT staffer.
After his request was denied, Goodman said, "Hey, is Imran here?" To which the employee replied, "Uh, he is. Why?"

And Jason Goodman said, "Because it sounds like he's answering your phones."
Which drew the retort, "Uh, what's your point?"
"Well, you want a list of points there, counselor?"
"Is he working for you?" asked Goodman, to which the employee whispers back, "Go away. Go away. We don't want you. Go away."
Well, I might have embellished that a tad, but it's "Go away."
And of course, there's Unzero Edge and Crowdsource of the Truth, there's a video.
But notice, or note, that Awan, this, the Awan, the Awan scandal is not really a scandal, it's a crime. It was February 2nd of last year, when Imran Awan and his family, his Pakistani family, were prohibited, barred from the Capitol grounds on the basis of criminal, alleged criminal conduct.
But yet, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, ah, she kept Imran Awan on in an advisory capacity until more recently.
All right, so what's the deal with that?
And of course, during that period of time, we have that interesting situation where the laptop of Imran Awan, and, or actually, the laptop of Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and some notes that said "attorney-client privilege" on it, and some other things like Awan's badge and ID card were found in this little cubby.
And we've talked about this before.
But we need to talk about it more and more. And the reason being is this overlaps into, believe it or not, what you will read from the email scandal.
You might ask, "Wow, wait a minute, how is that? That seems like a stretch."
Look, you've got the allegations of hacking by Russia.
Bogus. Not true.
You've got, what you have is the leaks from the DNC.
You've got Hillary Clinton operating a homebrewed server in her house.
But in addition to that, communicating with the President of the United States, also Weiner, and, or Ahuma Abedin, which the, at least 18 classified documents are found on Weiner's laptop.
All of this stuff overlaps because all of this is classified information that's being mishandled in a criminal sense, in my view.
And again, I couch that for those people who are transcribing this and want to, you know, go the lawsuit route some more.
But we are exposing this criminality. We are exposing the overlap between the Awan criminal, in my view, infiltration into the Democratic Senate, or the Democratic House of Representatives.
We are seeing the overlap of that and the Hillary Clinton email server, the mishandling of classified information.
And now, to top it off, you've got Imran Awan, if you can believe it, working for Chris Gowen, allegedly, allegedly working for Chris Gowen, based on the fine work of Jason Goodman, "Crowd Service of the Truth," reported by Zero Hedge and other outlets.
Why?
Are we going to see justice? Are we going to see justice? Are we going to see anyone held accountable?
And as I leave you this Friday, or this Thursday, I'm sorry, I'm getting the day ahead.
As I leave you this Thursday, I'm going to ask a better question. What happens if we don't?
What happens if we don't see justice?
What happens if we don't see perp walks?
What happens if we don't see people held to account?
Will we see mass riots on the streets?
Will the conservatives raise up and finally say, "We've had enough"?
I leave you with that question.
I think that we're reaching a time, I think we're reaching a point in our history where there will be a Lexington moment.
There will be a moment, a flashpoint.
And folks, when that flashpoint hits, all I can say is may God help us all and may God save our nation.
I'm Doug Hagman, sitting in for Alex Jones. I want to thank you for listening, for keeping, for having me back.
Appreciate it.
HagmanReport.com, Infowars.com. God bless.
You deserve a deep, restful sleep with Knockout by Infowars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality, natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from Infowars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalists.
It is you, the Infowarriors across the planet, that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats, that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team, supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to Infowars.com/newsletter and sign up via email.
So there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the Infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at Infowars.com/newsletter.
We are the Renaissance. And we are winning.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.



whisper_print_timings:     load time =  7493.79 ms
whisper_print_timings:      mel time = 65185.25 ms
whisper_print_timings:   sample time = 24287.79 ms
whisper_print_timings:   encode time = 27420268.00 ms / 856883.38 ms per layer
whisper_print_timings:   decode time = 11640621.00 ms / 363769.41 ms per layer
whisper_print_timings:    total time = 39158524.00 ms
