You tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alice Jones Show.
Scientists with the CDC say the strain known as bird flu X could potentially wipe out four
billion people and kills one third of the people affected.
It originated in China in March of 2013.
During the fifth epidemic from October 1, 2016 through September 30, 2017, the World
Health Organization reported 766 human infections with Asian H7N9 virus, making it the largest
H7N9 epidemic to date.
As of December 7, 2017, the total cumulative number of human infections with Asian lineage
H7N9 reported by the World Health Organization since 2013 is 1,565.
During epidemics, one through five, about 39% of people confirmed with Asian H7N9 virus
infection died.
A lot of scientists have come out and said, looks like it's been engineered, manipulated
to jump from birds to humans, that they were all panicked 20 years ago thinking it might
end to humanity because it could kill 1% of people that contracted it.
That's one out of a hundred.
They call flu deadly.
It killed one out of a thousand, particularly bad.
So now it's being reported by the CDC and by the World Health Organization, the UN,
but it's getting almost no coverage.
It's a big boil down in zero hedge with links to the UN.
There is a bird flu that just popped up this week that's already killed a bunch of people
that kills 38.3 or round up 40% of people.
Zero hedge reports, the World Health Organization says H7N9 is an unusually dangerous virus
for humans and one of the most lethal influenza viruses that we've seen so far.
H7N9 viruses have several features typically associated with human influenza viruses and
therefore possess pandemic potential and need to be monitored closely.
Vaccine, live vaccine, grown in giant tanks that is sprayed on the meat and then the viruses
eat the bacteria.
This is what you're eating.
There's the headline.
FDA approved spray on virus to keep processed meats safe.
See, it's not just that, quote, McDonald's is fattening or bad for you, ladies and gentlemen.
It's that China is a collapsing hell hole and that's where you do not want to eat food
out of China.
It turns out the British, the European, the Chinese, the US, the Monsanto facilities,
none of them eat any of the food.
They all have secret organic farms with tents to even keep the chemicals in the air off
the food and that's what they eat.
That's what the elite eats and you can look that up that communist Chinese elite have
secret organic farms.
According to Dr. Yoshihiro Kawaoka of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, researchers
led by James Paulson of the Scripps Research Institute in California have been studying
the mutations which could potentially occur in H7N9's genome to allow for human to human
infection.
The team's findings published in the journal PLOS Pathogens on Thursday showed that in
laboratory tests, mutations in three amino acids made the virus more able to bind to
human cells, suggesting these changes are key to making the virus more dangerous to
people, that from Japan Times.
I'm not saying this is disease X.
The UN, the globalists are saying disease X is coming, it's going to wipe out populations
and we're going to use disease X to bring in world government and disease X is going
to be the answer to nationalism and to Donald Trump and to these populations that want to
pull out of the IMF and World Bank and the globalist, who've all been building bunkers
and moving to Kauai and Lanai and Tasmania.
Fortunately for now, Fiona Cully an expert in respiratory immunology at Imperial College
London said the mutations would need to occur relatively close to each other to become more
virulent, which has a low probability of happening.
But outbreaks since late 2017 of other avian flu strains, namely H5N6 in South Korea, Hong
Kong and Taiwan, H5N1 in Bangladesh and Cambodia and H5N8 in Russia, reveal an increase in
the potential of the mutation of a global avian flu epidemic.
John Bowen reporting for Infowars.com.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula.
The Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful pregnant alone formula.
Now with an added energy boost.
Now, you can support your heart, brain and aging process with an added natural energy
boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients, like green tea extract, your
bimate leaf extract, and more.
Pair it with the powerful ingredients in the original Real Red Pill formula.
The Real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick
me up to get you through the day.
The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body.
Don't miss out on the all new upgrade to your favorite product.
Head to Infowarsstore.com and get the Real Red Pill Plus today.
Get Real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
You've tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones show.
We have been following very closely for several years disease X that the UN World Health Organization
has predicted could wipe out humanity.
Now there's a spectrum of disease X type pathogens in the virus family that they would call a
disease X, mainly the bird flu variety, the mouse pox variety, and also what would be
known as airborne Ebola.
I have four children.
I love my family.
I have studied history in great detail and I understand how big a threat this is.
Now Zero Hedge has an incredibly important article that's a boil down from the World
Health Organization and just mentions and blurbs out of the Chinese news that they're
basically keeping quiet.
The story is also posted in Full Infowars.com that a new strain of bird flu that kills 40%
of humans that contracted it just showed up this week and has already killed 100 people
plus and that's old news.
Previous bird flu that they thought were incredibly deadly only killed 1%, then 3%, then 6%.
The last one was 9%.
Remember decades ago when they were worried it might go airborne.
We have a graphic from the UN showing that it is now airborne.
This is so incredible, ladies and gentlemen, because this should be the top news story
in the world.
Regular flu, it's estimated, even with compromised immune systems, might kill 1% of people that
come in contact with it.
The influenza plague that hit during World War I was estimated to kill around 10% of
people that came in contact with it and the estimates are 100 to 150 million to 200 million
because good records weren't kept as at least 100 million people with a flu that killed
around 11%.
This kills 38.3% according to the UN, they've rounded up to 40% and it's exponentially getting
more deadly in these giant factory farms in China.
If you look at the graphic and put it back on there from the UN, you can get it from
the air, from foul ducts, chicken manure, feces, or you can get it from particular in
the virus in the air through your nose or by touching it to your mouth.
It's extremely airborne, eyes, nose, or mouth.
So understand something, ladies and gentlemen, there's all sorts of new viral strains that
are drug resistant bacterial strains.
We know one of the biggest causes of death in the world now is flesh eating bacteria.
There's hundreds of different types that are basically immune to antibiotics.
I had three family members die in a month a few years ago of a drug resistant pneumonia
virus.
And so there is no treatment for this.
I've got the detailed report on infowars.com.
This is from the UN themselves.
This is sensationally bad.
Now, remember about a decade ago, our own Pentagon and the CDC put out the blueprint
via the UN for the mouse pox that kills 99% of mice that come in contact with it.
And with a few genetic changes, it can be made to be airborne for humans and kill 99%
of humans.
It is seen as the most deadly potential because it's already at 99%.
I'm going to explain that again.
99% of people that get a human variant mouse pox die a horrible death.
This is 38.3.
This is an emergency, folks, because if we don't treat like an emergency, no one will
know what's going on.
And then it's just something in the background and we don't get ready for it.
Now, here's the big news.
Let's put up AP Reuters, The Sun, others reported this.
We first reported this a decade ago, but even this year, global pandemic, a mystery disease
could wipe out humanity, top scientists warn.
I'm not going to go that far in my headline.
I'm saying if it kills 40% of people, and we're 7.5 billion people currently, that's
over 3 billion people.
It's upwards of 4 billion.
So 3 to 4 billion people would die if the entire planet contracted this.
Look at the graph, 1%, 3%, 6%, and suddenly, 9%.
It makes a leap to 38.3, 38.3.
Now, what did I and Dr. Group and others, and Dr. Blalock, who's a brain surgeon, what
have we talked about in the past here on the air, that the globalists have said in their
white papers, in their own UN documents, that they want to create race-specific bio weapons
and other systems to depopulate the planet.
They teach that everywhere, that the world without humans would be great.
We need to depopulate.
China's been the center of one-child policy, all of this, and that it would be good to
call the planet.
We've seen Ian Fleming, MI6, write books about Moonraker back in the 60s, and they made a
movie in the 80s about billionaire globalists releasing bio weapons to reduce population.
That's art imitating life.
You've got Oprah Winfrey and Ted Turner in all the globalist meeting in the news, and
they want to forcibly reduce world population.
The fact that this is jumping and mutating so quick, and the fact that they just came
out earlier this year and said, we believe disease X is about to show up and start wiping
people out, get ready for it, and the fact that all over the world, they're beefing
up border security in Europe and other areas, a lot of this from my sources is that they're
preparing to release bio weapons, claim that they're naturally occurring, and then use
that as the cover for civil emergency, societal control, crackdowns on free speech.
Obama put the internet kill switch in five years ago, and when he got confronted by Congress,
he said, well, it's in case the bird flu or SARS gets out.
Just type that in.
CDC says internet kill switch is in case bird flu or SARS breaks out, and they have to control
panic and direct every website in the U.S. to one government announcement.
That's associated press, look it up.
So now we see this coming into focus.
They say, oh, we think the disease X is about to show up.
And you just saw Bill Maher a week ago say, he hopes there's a total stock market crash,
not a recession, a total stock market crash to stop America and Trump.
Now, that's a globalist minion says, crash the economy, crash the stock market.
There's the quotes.
Watch the video.
See if yourself, if you missed it.
Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what they will be able to pull off during a global meltdown,
a global collapse, and during billions of people dying, millions of people dying, it
will look like a zombie invasion.
Humans that are 10 days and no food or water act like totally insane people and murder
and kill and just eat raw flesh off the ground, look at Venezuela, and they're training the
military for mass waves of zombie attacks.
So the people don't ask, well, wait, you're trained to machine gun whole crowds of people.
They go, oh, it's just a game, we're training to mow down zombies, no.
Giant hordes of out of control people act like this.
And we've been designated as zombies for the zombie apocalypse and World War Z, the biopleg
breaks out in China.
They've been pre-programming you so you accept this and follow their Hollywood directives
when it all happens.
I'm not saying it's about to happen imminently, but they're certainly gearing up for it and
pushing it.
And you got Dick Cheney talking about in rebuilding America's defenses in 2000 and
PNAC about using bio weapons to wipe out certain racial groups.
Believe me, this is going on.
This is historical fact.
So I don't need all the little cutesy podcasters out there saying, oh, Jones has gone too
far again.
You go along with the system out there because you don't want to be censored and blocked.
A sign of my success and how real I am is that we are censored and blocked and every
thinking person knows it.
So I just want to survive.
I want my kids to survive.
I want you to survive.
We have a global elite with a history of saying they want to release bio weapons to reduce
our population.
Now we've got stuff showing up that's evolving and mutating so fast.
It's tailor made to be manipulated and in a bio weapon.
And you've got the globalist willing to have a global depression to stop Trump and the
resurgence of nationalism and capitalism to block their global government that they could
do anything.
And we looked at every angle and believe a bio weapon release could be the thing they'd
release to bring in a world government to counter a global problem.
And the UN has said that a global pandemic is the only thing that may save their world
government.
Look at all up.
Ignore me at your own peril.
I'm the producer of end game that documents everything.
Word for word with Elon Musk is now saying 11 years later.
If you want to survive and you want to beat these globalists and these modern day Nazis,
you better listen.
If you love your kids, you better listen.
And I'm talking to Joe Rogan and everybody else.
You don't listen to me.
I hope you got a big bunker or an offshore base because the plague's coming.
It may not be this year, but this is the Globalist Plan.
I'm Alex Jones.
You have been warned.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we haven't
in fuller's life.
It take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body, that it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins, the amino acids so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
This is the last week to get free shifting on all of our best selling items at infowarstore.com.
We also have some of the biggest sales in our history on super high quality supplements
and other products at infowarstore.com as well as infowarslife.com.
Body's ultimate turmeric formula has the strongest curcuminin level of any other brand you're
going to find out there at 95%.
Leading competitors have a curcuminin level of 3%.
From there, we've got dozens and dozens and dozens of other game changing products that
you and your family will absolutely love and will help support the broadcast.
It is critical that you go to infowarstore.com and look at some of those items for yourself,
whether it's water filtration, air filtration, non-GMO heirloom seeds, X2, it's all there
at infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com.
Infowarslife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for holding.
Hey Alex, mate.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when InfoWars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and
I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and read
all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your product
since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then, I'm on the X2, the Super
Male Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, Michael ZX Body, it's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that
it's an un-understand type of stuff with you, the crew and the listeners out here, 1770s
worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It is Sunday already, the 17th day of June 2018 and I'm here in studio on Father's Day
with quite a transmission lined up for you.
We're now into the third segment.
I wanted to tell you some of the bombshell interviews exclusive that are coming up.
We have an exclusive interview with the individual that is the top story in the world right
now and that's coming up in the last segment of the second hour.
Roger Stone exclusive video statement on the new Russian contact revelation from back during
the campaign.
Now you'd think when we have the exclusive video that the media has access to, you'd
think they'd pick it up, they haven't touched it and that goes into the next story I'm
about to cover.
Tucker Carlson has absolutely knocked it out of the park and the control freaks at the
imploding CNN, MSNBC have come out of their holes, come out of their rocks and said how
un-American what Tucker Carlson said is.
Tucker Carlson said that when you watch major news channels, other news channels on cable
that you can invert whatever they say, just turn it upside down and then you'll get what's
happening.
Now, where have you heard that before right here?
But it's true.
It's absolutely true.
If you actually went and heard what Roger Stone said that they now know that a man that
approached them at one of hundreds of meetings they had for just five minutes who use an
American-sounding name, not a Russian name, and said I've got information on Hillary,
which is totally normal to have opposition research meetings, give me two million dollars
and they said no, we're not going to pay two million dollars, bye-bye.
The gentleman was using a Western-sounding name, but he was actually Russian and had
worked for the FBI previously, now he's not talking.
But this is what we already know happened with Halperin and others that we broke in
early May. We broke a week before national news about the first mole.
We broke the second mole.
We broke the third mole with Mr. Caputo coming on the show.
So you get next week's next month's news today.
That's why they hate us.
That's why they're coming after us because they just want to say, oh my God, an undisclosed
Russian connection.
Oh my gosh, here's the Russian guy's name.
Oh, sure, he worked for the FBI before, but he doesn't now probably.
And Stone got caught.
So Stone came out and said, wait a minute, because he got advised about it and said,
we got visited, me and Caputo, by this guy.
He didn't say anything to do with Russians, didn't have a Russian name, but now we know
he's one of the moles, reportedly.
But then the media spends it like, ah, we got you in bed with the Russians.
When it's struck and page and all of them running the investigations and deep-sixing
them and saying we're not going to let him get elected, we're going to stop him and he's
a bad person.
So here, just hear it from Tucker Carlson because there's so many levels to this.
You've got CNN saying, when you criticize other media, you're undermining democracy.
Well, we're a republic on a democracy, but that's called free speech.
It's CNN that openly says, don't publish Alex Jones' book, The War for the Future.
It's CNN that openly says ban him from YouTube and kick him off radio.
It's CNN that wants to get rid of the First Amendment in major articles saying, let's
overturn the New York Times case that basically set up current libel law.
They are this anti-American, anti-flyover country group.
And they are so incredibly angry at anybody else having speech.
The universities, the left, Hillary, they all want to end free speech.
Tucker Carlson isn't ending free speech.
He has his right to say you can invert whatever CNN says when they're telling you they've
taken the bust of Martin Luther King out, Trump hates black people, don't lie.
That's a costa.
That's all these people.
Oh, Trump didn't really visit Congressman Scalise in the hospital, he lied.
It's just an inversion of reality on purpose.
But then Brian Stelter comes out and says, this is un-American and dangerous to say we
lie.
No, you are a pack of liars.
You are very fake news and you're anti-free speech trying to shut infowars.com down.
Mr. Tucker Carlson annihilating him, very powerful.
Here it is.
General, and it's packed with information and a few minutes Donald Trump Jr. will join
us to respond to it.
But first, what is in the report?
Well, the document is more than 500 pages long and parts of it are complex.
And yet within minutes of its release, the hairspray geniuses of cable news had it neatly
summarized for the rest of us.
It was a tough day for the FBI, they said, but here's the bottom line.
A months-long investigation found no evidence that political bias played any role in this
high-profile criminal investigation.
That's almost verbatim what they said on the other channels we watched.
And they repeated it nearly word for word at the top of every hour all day long, almost
like a talking point, which of course is what it was.
Keep this in mind.
If you're looking to understand what's actually happening in this country, always assume the
opposite of what they're telling you on the big news stations.
And that's certainly the case here.
They're lying.
In fact, today's IG report is a virtual catalog of political bias and abuse of power.
It is true that investigators found no evidence at all that Jim Comey was trying to sabotage
Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign.
No surprise there.
Comey is a partisan Democrat, as he is explained repeatedly on his book tour.
The bias, and there was a lot of it, was against Donald Trump and his campaign.
And there's an enormous amount of that on display in this report.
Trump is a loathsome human FBI lawyer.
Lisa Page wrote to her boyfriend, FBI official Peter Strock, he's an idiot, awful, an enormous
douche, a disaster.
He simply cannot be president.
He's not ever going to become president, right?
Right, she wrote to Strock at one point.
No, Strock replied.
No he won't.
We'll stop it.
Keep in mind, these are the people running the investigations into Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton in the middle of a presidential race.
It's almost unbelievable.
But you know what's even more unbelievable?
Peter Strock still works at the FBI.
The man who promised to stop a presidential candidate from getting elected is still collecting
his salary at our most powerful law enforcement agency.
If you're looking for evidence of political bias, there you have it.
And if you don't believe it, imagine this headline, for example, say 10 years ago.
Barack Obama simply cannot become president.
We will stop him, wrote FBI agent Peter Strock, who still works at the Bureau.
Can you imagine?
No, he'd be fired immediately, first amendment be damned.
By the way, Strock and Page were not alone.
They're not even the standout cases in this report.
The document quotes another FBI attorney, wondering, quote, what I could have done differently
to stop Donald Trump's election as president.
That same official later describes himself as part of the anti-Trump resistance.
For some reason, the DOJ is hiding that lawyer's name from the public.
We do know he served on the Mueller team until February of this year.
Of course he did.
And there's a lot more in the report, hundreds of pages of it.
It turns out Jim Comey used a personal email account to conduct government business, just
like the woman he was in the process of investigating for doing the same thing, irony alert.
Hillary's Secret Server, by the way, it did indeed have classified information on it.
And some of that information was obtained by a foreign intelligence service, at least
one.
Remember when we suggested that very thing, and they scoffed derisively?
Well, it turns out it's true.
Like so much.
All right, let's stop right there.
The report goes on.
It's a 40-minute clip.
I couldn't hardly find it anywhere today.
We found it.
It's on infowars.com with the headline up there that the liberal media taxes is un-American.
No, exposing you as a pack of liars is nothing but American, and it's not anti-free speech.
You're the ones trying to get rid of free speech.
Criticizing you like Trump and I and Tucker Carlson do is our defense against a pack of
anti-American, anti-free speech scum allied with Silicon Valley to shut down pro-America
truth-based news.
But you're losing.
The people are spreading the word by word of mouth and getting around the Google censors,
the Facebook censors.
Now, coming up, we are going to expose the most vicious pedophile in the world that tortured
and raped little children with women and then made them bury themselves and then sold
the footage to Hollywood Satanist.
That's right.
But you didn't hear about that in the news.
It's in the foreign news.
We'll be back.
Let's go.
We can't extend this free shipping sale much longer with our best-selling items at M4store.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few more days.
We're also running out of some of our best-selling items, like our amazing Neutropic Rainforest.
It's $19.95, leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good.
It's a great deal, normally, at $39.95.
Rainforest, you've never tried it.
This is a great opportunity.
$19.95.
Also, alpha power is 50% off.
If you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina, focus, libido.
It does so many things.
X2.
Even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals of the good halogen iodine,
I am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few days at 50% off.
And then after that, it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of it.
M4WarsLife.com, M4Store.com, or AAA-253-3139, and thank you all for helping fund the Second American Global Revolution.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the M4Wars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to M4Wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the M4Wars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at M4Wars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the M4Wars.
It is a classical 360-win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield and M4WarsLive.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support
and Wake Up America Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land
to generate the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth
to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
and enhancing your morning routine at InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Millie Weaver.
I'm Caitlin Bennett.
We're here at A&A Bem Range in Garrettville, Ohio.
We came out here to meet with Caitlin Bennett,
the Kent State College student who has come out and spoken out
about protecting the Second Amendment,
the girl who famously said,
the Kent State College student who has come out and spoken out about protecting the Second Amendment,
the girl who famously walked around on Kent State campus with an AR.
So she also challenged David Hogg to an arm wrestle.
So we're just going to be interviewing her
and we're going to be doing some shooting out here.
I like your shirt, by the way.
Oh, thanks.
Gun rights are women's rights.
They absolutely are.
So where should we put them?
All right.
I think we're good.
I have been a very prominent gun rights supporter on campus for about two years
and the students on campus are very, very pro gun control
and no one else was talking about the other side.
So I co-hosted an arm carry event where we had over 50 armed people on campus
and I was like, that wasn't enough.
No one's getting a point about campus carry.
They're not understanding gun rights in general.
So I was like, I'm going to do a protest right when I graduate.
I'm going to go on campus with an AR tent
and I'm going to show how ridiculous it is
that I could not have my concealed carry weapon, my pistol on me during my senior year
when I was 21 and able to have it.
I believe that we should be able to have any of those on campus
because I believe an armed society is a safe society
and armed campus is a safe campus
but I definitely should have been able to have my concealed carry weapon.
So you bring up a great point when you're talking about being able to carry on campus
because we've seen a lot of these shootings happen on school campuses.
The Parkland shooting has gotten all this hype, all this attention
to where even Nicholas Cruz is receiving love letters and fan mail.
I mean, isn't that pretty disgusting when we're talking about the news coverage
and who's getting attention?
The people who stop these shootings get way less attention
than the person who actually goes and carries out the horrendous act.
So whatever happened with the whole David Hogg thing,
I know you challenged him to an arm wrestling battle, I guess, over the second amendment.
Did he actually take you up on that offer?
No, he hasn't responded. He hasn't really acknowledged.
I know that he's seen it because all of his friends are complaining about it
but he's on his bus tour trying to implement gun control
and get these teenagers registered to vote, to elect an official to implement gun control.
And I guess he's too busy being a communist to take up a girl on an arm wrestle challenge.
Look at that.
We're too politically correct. We can't joke. The liberals can joke.
That's fine. They can call Trump a monkey. They can say he's orange
and, you know, he's a woman beater and everything.
But the right wing makes a joke about a scrawny armed little communist
that wants to take our rights away and the world loses their mind.
The left will troll and they will try to claim that there's something they're not
in order to try to put guilt trips or make you feel that you're wrong
or get you to back step in your stance.
With some of these tweets that I'm actually reading here that you're getting,
hey, f*** you, you're going to hell. LOL.
She's getting hate mail from these people.
I think it's really ironic that the same people who get the walk up to try to end bullying
or the ones sending me those messages, they're like comparing me to demons.
They make fun of my look and make fun of my ramen noodle hair, which...
Have you ever shot an airplane before?
Whatever.
Which is the scariest gun for liberals?
They're both scary to them, but they really hate the AR-15.
Oh, the AR-15, okay.
Which, it's actually a smaller caliber round than the AK.
In fact, this is the AR-15 round.
This is the round that everybody, you know, from the gun that everybody's afraid of.
That's awesome, man.
This is the lever action 45-70 that, uh, it's a hunting rifle.
Right here.
The caliber round.
Hunting rifle.
AR-15.
Which one could do more damage?
Definitely this one.
Yeah, I wouldn't want to get hit by either, but that one looks a bit scarier.
Absolutely.
So every gun attack, or automatically the AR-15 in the media, demonizes it.
In the past 96 mass shootings, the AR-15 has only been used six times,
and yet that's the rifle they keep attacking.
They ban semi-automatics.
We lose our pistol carry.
We lose our two walk-around and conceal and protect ourselves.
When somebody who doesn't really know how to use an AR-15
could actually do less damage than somebody who's really really handgun.
If you're really good with that lever action shotgun, I mean,
ten times more damage than you can with the AR-15.
Kent State, I know, I'm sure other campuses do this as well.
They put up flyers about it that one in five women will be sexually assaulted
while attending this university.
That's terrifying.
So why are we advertising that these women might be sexually assaulted,
but we're preventing them from protecting themselves?
A lot of campuses don't even allow knives, pocket knives, or even pepper spray.
So they're just letting women be victims.
They aren't doing anything to help.
Those flyers are not doing anything to help them.
And, you know, we should be able to protect ourselves on campus.
I'm sure it's going to offend some vegan activists.
I want to shoot the AR-15.
Okay.
Did I get the chicken?
You're a little to the left.
I'm a little to the left.
Oh, I got him.
The chicken's down for the count.
All right.
Let's put it back on safety.
Women have some physical disadvantages in brute strength to men.
And so when a woman can hold a gun and defend herself against some big six-foot-two guy
that wants to harm her or rape her or kill her,
she's really becoming empowered and taking that power back.
And with that small gun, she can fend off that guy.
A pistol in the hands of a woman is the greatest equalizer against any predators that might come at her.
Having a firearm on you is the biggest deterrent to those types of assaults.
Try to.
You know, it didn't hurt that bad.
I can see why the X-15 is such a loved gun, it's more lightweight, it fits in, it's more
practical, it's easy even for women to shoot.
Well that's America's gun too.
Women tend to win in common in gun sports, and that is a way that women can take this
back.
Like you said, it's the equalizer.
It allows women to be empowered, and that's the real thing that, you know, we don't hear
feminists talking about this on the left.
We don't hear that because they get their power from wanting to complain and guilt trip
and act like they're the victim, rather than taking power back into their own hands.
There's a feminism group on my campus actually that led a slut walk right before the semester
ended, and I asked them, I said, so the slut walk is supposed to stop slut shaming and
stop, you know, the rape culture on campus, and I said, do you advocate for women to
be armed?
Guess what?
No, they don't.
It doesn't matter to them.
They just want to, they said instead of using firearms to protect ourselves, we should be
talking and using our words.
Well that's why, that doesn't work.
Yeah, no.
It's, it's, they're killing me.
What would you say to people who are afraid of guns?
Ask questions, ask what certain guns do, what different types there are, then ask someone
at a range to go with you and show you what they do, how they operate, what they're used
for, contact your local concealed carry clubs, contact your local open carry clubs, ask questions
because I promise you, you'll go from being scared to being thrilled to shoot a gun.
It's absolutely empowering, it's fun, and you know, it's, it's amazing that we have
this right to have these weapons to protect ourselves from the government and from people
that want to harm us.
Welcome to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones show.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at
InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, InfoWarsLife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
If pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Your organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You've tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones Show.
It seems to me that the biggest story here that isn't reported because people don't like
to frame anything positively for President Trump when they say, hey, he walked away from
that summit with nothing.
And I say, it's easy to argue, well, he got a commitment to do this or a commitment to
do that.
But realistically, all of the commitments they made, the commitments we made are reasonably
reversible.
So it's not really about that.
What the president did, and Chairman McKinnon gave him credit as well, is that they have
redefined the situation from two moral enemies, one who must win and the other one must lose,
to two potential friends who have taken the first few steps that are not really representative
of the whole journey, but they're on the right path to friendship, something where we win,
they win.
And frankly, they win a lot bigger than we win if this plays out right.
So the whole reframing from enemies to probably friends who can help each other is what the
president walked away with and is completely ignored.
Well, I appreciate Scott Adams coming on, on short notice, creator of Dilbert.
You name it, a really life coach is what he's segwayed into and very, very popular online
doing that.
And of course, he's been at the center of the whole Kanye West awakening process and
made the point a few months ago that Kanye had blown a hole in reality, so I guess that
reality could then start pouring in.
He talked about how it's a lie that history repeats.
It's something politicians, people use against us.
It doesn't have to repeat if we don't want it to.
And now I was watching the little two minute video that Trump showed Kim Jong-un that,
as Scott Adams pointed out a few days ago, and could be the best negotiation strategy
ever.
And it certainly knew and it certainly worked so far, but I'm watching, I'm like, oh, that's
Scott Adams word for word.
This is what he said in his last video about Kanye, somebody must be watching.
And then, sure enough, Scott, I've put a video out pointing out, not taking credit for it,
but pointing out those parallels.
And so I'm just wondering with Scott Adams, obviously he and Trump are going to the same
fount of knowledge, and I know there was this pastor that was real famous, that was a positive
thinker, positive speaker, that helped motivate Trump to a great extent.
But just the positivity coming back in the world, he's even making me a lot happier
of a person because I tend to get negative sometimes too about the bad thing in the world
instead of getting positive about the good things.
But then I start seeing all these great things happening, but while I was on vacation, I
ran the Democrats who get in my face, three of them did, and I'd say, what about the peace
deal?
Isn't it great?
What about the economy?
And they just say, shut up, racist.
And I said, that's not reality, and that's not true.
And so it just gets crazier and crazier and crazier that we have big polls out on infowars.com,
Paul Joseph Watson article, TV poll, 71% of liberals don't want peace with North Korea
because Trump would take credit for having national TV polls, but Michelle Wolf's Netflix
show and 71% don't want peace and admit it's because they don't like Trump.
This is like a death cult of negative people that would rather die in nuclear war.
Scott Adams, you're really good at putting your finger on the major pulse of the good
things and the bad things, but if Kanye blew a hole in reality, which I agree, and now that
breach has turned into a huge gaping maw, where are we historically right now?
Thanks for joining us.
Well, I call it the beginning of the golden age.
I've been defining the golden age as that moment when people start realizing that the
remaining big problems are no longer physical.
A physical problem would be you run out of food and resources and we're not in that situation.
We're more in a situation where North Korea is a perfect example.
We were worried about what they were thinking and they were worried about what we were thinking.
But neither of us had any reason to be a war or to start a war or to continue bad feelings.
So by both Chairman Kim, who said at first, by the way, he said in his first statement
at the summit, he said words to the effect of let's leave the past behind.
And then you saw President Trump with his video that's getting a lot of attention saying
exactly the same thing.
Because if you dwell on the past, you're stuck with that we keep moving forward because you
did this that one time or some relative of yours did something one time or our side did
something that one time, you just can't move forward.
And it seems to me that the biggest story here that isn't reported because people don't
like to frame anything positively for President Trump when they say, hey, he walked away from
that summit with nothing.
And I say, it's easy to argue, well, he got a commitment to do this or a commitment to
do that.
But realistically, all the commitments they made, the commitments we made are easily reversible.
So it's not really about that.
What the president did, and Chairman McKinnon gave him credit as well, is that they have
redefined the situation from two moral enemies, one who must win and the other one must lose,
to two potential friends who have taken the first few steps that are not really representative
of the whole journey, but they're on the right path to friendship.
Something where we win, they win.
And frankly, they win a lot bigger than we win if this plays out right.
So the whole reframing from enemies to probably friends who can help each other is what the
president walked away with and is completely ignored.
And when he's given that we're essentially safer from nuclear war now, and his critics
said, what?
That's crazy.
And I say, who has a nuclear war with their ally?
Who bombs somebody who has just offered to help rebuild your country?
Who becomes an enemy with somebody who's got their hand out literally and figuratively?
It's the sort of thing that just doesn't really happen.
So he reframed the situation in a way that effectively made a nuclear war no longer have
a purpose.
Who bombs their friends?
It just doesn't happen.
And as long as we're on that path, even tentatively, even for steps, and everybody would agree
that much more would need to be done to make it real.
But as long as you're on this, the path to mutual benefit, nobody fights, nobody, it
just doesn't happen.
And that I think is the biggest unreported story.
Scott, I went back a few days ago and I watched your 20-minute viral video or how long it
was on Kanye blowing a whole rally, and then I went back and watched your new video before
I watched that one.
I wanted to go watch the old one.
And I don't want to say Trump's plagiarizing you.
He's not, but it's word for word about unlimited resources.
We've transcended resources.
We can flip the script.
We can take control of our destiny.
History doesn't have to repeat.
We're the people in the critical time to do it.
I mean, seeing that, I mean, you guys are on the same page.
So maybe for listeners that want to learn more about the antecedents to your political
and your philosophy in life, what would they want to research?
Well, my book, Win Big Lee, has a good introduction to that sort of stuff.
But as you mentioned before, the influential pastor, Norman Vincent Peale, was the person
who really was the father, if you will, of the idea of power of positive thinking.
That was his best-selling book.
And he was Trump's pastor when Trump was a kid, and he was influential to me as well.
I read his books.
So I think we all got a little bit infected by the strategy of being positive and framing
things in the positive way for win-win situations.
So it probably shouldn't be a big surprise that people who had the same influences have
arrived at the same way of-
Sure, but a couple of years ago, when you did the whole mental judo, where you said,
oh, I'm supporting Hillary, or I'll be basically murdered, you were saying, I believe Trump
is following this.
I believe he'll be successful.
And I think it's because you understood his mindset that you have better than anybody.
I think Char did what he would do.
Yeah, and the other thing he does well that he doesn't get credit for is a sense of priorities.
If you look at the criticisms of him, and you were to make a list of all the things
people say, and then make a list of the things he's actually doing that are real things like
the economy, North Korea, progress with beating ISIS, etc.
Those are all real things and are top priorities.
The things people are arguing about are, well, he didn't pass the fact checking on this according
to us.
It tends to be a little subject to what the facts are in many cases.
Exactly, they're still playing the game with their God and they dictate reality.
Yeah, so the President has put winning and making America great again and having a strong
economy, all those things, very expressly at the top of his priority list.
And when he uses persuasion to get there, the critics are arguing the least important
parts of what he said.
They're arguing about the wording, they're arguing about the technical accuracy, they're
arguing about whether in some way that we can't imagine things will be worse in the
future because we allowed this to happen today.
What matters is it's really working.
So I want to ask Scott Adams, a real visionary, what's coming next straight ahead?
And I want to know about the negativity though, as people get more positive and we realize
that humanity's in a pretty good position if we behave like it, well, what is the negative
side going to do?
Because they don't seem to be getting better.
They seem to be getting just insane and just making up their own false reality while putting
their finger at us and saying, we're the ones lying, we'll be back.
This is the last week to get free shipping on all of our best selling items at infowarstore.com.
We also have some of the biggest sales in our history on super high quality supplements
and other products at infowarstore.com as well as infowarslife.com.
Body's ultimate turmeric formula has the strongest curcuminin level of any other brand you're
going to find out there at 95%.
Leading competitors have a curcuminin level of 3%.
From there, we've got dozens and dozens and dozens of other game-changing products that
you and your family will absolutely love and will help support the broadcast.
It is critical that you go to infowarstore.com and look at some of those items for yourself,
whether it's water filtration, air filtration, non-GMO heirloom seeds, X2, it's all there
at infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes, supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why infowarslife has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line, super
blue silver immune gargle.
Available in 1oz, 3.5oz and 16oz bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle, only
available at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You've tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones show.
You had a good run, the opposition had a good run, but it looks like our opposition has
fallen short once again.
Aw, poor baby.
Let's see, if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to open up the phone lines here for the second
hour.
Triple eight two zero one two two four four eight eight eight two zero one two two four
four will flash the phone number graphic up on the screen for you momentarily.
I'll take your calls on the IG report, but you know what, it's Friday.
This is the conclusion of the 34 hour broadcast, so we'll open up the phone lines to anything.
Wait a second.
Do we have some breaking news right now?
Hold on a second, I'm getting something in my ear from the crew.
I'm getting something in my ear from the crew.
We've got some breaking news here, Harrison Smith has some breaking news.
Do we have Harrison Smith guys?
Hold on a second, Harrison, you've got some breaking news.
Hey, this is breaking news, I don't know how you feel about this, but the Comedy Central
Show, the opposition with Jordan Klupper has been canceled.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Oh, the old opposition, huh?
The old opposition has been canceled.
The shut-down, cut-down in its prime, cut-down in its youth.
Actually, it had no prime.
Well, the old opposition launched a week after this show launched, probably in a direct
response to Info Wars.
But where's the opposition now?
Bye-bye opposition.
You know what?
I want the whole crew on the mic again.
I want everybody on the mic to say bye-bye opposition.
You can say bye-bye opposition.
Are you today?
Bye-bye, Jordan Klepper.
Bye-bye.
See you later.
Bye-bye, Mr. Klepper.
You had a good run.
You had a good run.
The opposition had a good run.
But it looks like our opposition has fallen short once again.
Aw, poor baby.
The opposition is a-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b.
You know how many tears were shed over the opposition?
Zero.
Hold on.
Pull it back up.
Jordan Klepper's opposition canceled by Comedy Central.
But new weekly series planned, and that one will fail too.
You know, here's the sad thing about it.
A lot of people probably lost their job because of this, but you have to understand something.
When you have counter-programming that is launched as propaganda, how can you expect
to win?
And this is the incredible thing to me, is that they probably actually thought that that
show would last.
It would be funny.
It really would be funny.
Here's the Chuck E. Cheese rat that confronted Alex Jones.
It would be funny, except they really don't get it.
And you know, I've got these two tweets from Trump today that I covered.
The tweet about beating the Bush and Clinton dynasty.
The tweet about Paul Manafort being treated unfairly.
And you can see that Twitter rigs up their algorithms so that you only see the negative
responses first.
And you go and you look at some of these people, you look at their Twitter accounts, you look
at their tweets, and I mean, I honestly just feel bad for them.
These are some of the most lost souls and brainwashed people out there.
I really feel bad for them.
I don't know what I can do.
I mean, do you see how everything on your side is losing?
The opposition is losing.
Robert De Niro is losing.
Hollywood is losing.
Clinton, Obama losing.
Like, just join the winning team.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
This is an emergency broadcast, and I say emergency because I want to get people's attention.
I began to study history when I was about 11 years old because my parents would not
let us have cable or let me watch a lot of television, other than like documentaries
and PBS.
I went to movies and things, but they didn't let me watch television.
They said, you either read, do your homework, you go outside and play sports.
And so I read hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of history books as my parents would buy me.
All the major timeline books on World War II, World War I, the Wild Wild West, the occult,
probably 30 sets of those.
And the reason I say that is I've got some background and some research.
And now in 20-plus years on air, I've made more than 30 films, I've interviewed thousands
of top experts, generals, presidents, scientists, and they concur and focus in and give us an
image of what's really happening in the world.
Now for people that don't actually study real politic, when I talk about this, you're
going to have heard of this.
There's too many people.
We need to depopulate.
Moonraker, the old James Bond movie with the globalist wanting to depopulate the planet
with a bio weapon, more modern films like The Kingsman, releasing a psychological warfare
wavelength through the cell phones and TVs to make us kill each other.
There have been hundreds of films where there's a global government and they want to kill
us.
Now when I was like eight, nine years old and watched Moonraker, I just thought it was
a movie.
Didn't know an MI6, you know, head of OSS type guy had written it.
OSS World War II, MI6 later.
But decades later, I know all about it.
I'm one of the leading experts on open public source white papers and globalist statements
on this.
And what's scary is they're so public about it, they think you're idiots.
And they've said, we're going to stand by and let bio weapons basically be developed
by third world countries and released, or we'll go ahead and produce them ourselves
and release them.
We even may do race specific to wipe out certain genomes, families of humans, we're all humans,
but there's certain subgroups and things in the family.
It's like dogs or any other, you know, major species, as much different types of horses.
And you got Dick Cheney, the famous rebuilding America's defenses 2000 saying we need to
develop the use of race specific bio weapons.
I mean, that was in our local paper.
People couldn't believe it a couple of years after I covered it was in a local paper.
They said, wow, you told the truth and I'm like, go read the damn paper yourself.
Not the paper paper writing about it, but Dick Cheney.
So I've broken down the fact that you've got bird flu that a lot of scientists have
come out and said, looks like it's been engineered and manipulated to jump from birds to humans
that they were all panic 20 years ago, thinking it might end a humanity because you could
kill 1% of people that contracted it.
That's one out of 100.
They call flu deadly.
It kills one out of 1,000, particularly bad.
So now it's being reported by the CDC and by the World Health Organization, the UN,
but it's getting almost no coverage.
It's a big boil down in zero heads with links to the UN that there is a bird flu that just
popped up this week.
It's already killed a bunch of people that kills 38.3 or roundup 40% of people to some
folks are still out of the woods, it'll probably be more than that before it's all over.
So everybody knows I've made 30 films.
Everybody knows that six or seven of them are about depopulation.
One of them is called Endgame, blueprint for global enslavement.
They've had congressional hearings on it and said they want that particular film banned
from the internet.
They have major newspapers saying ban it, why?
It's word for word what Elon Musk is telling you.
In their own words, their own admissions, they're like, whoa, we said too much.
We don't want you to see that film.
I can't believe it only had 50 million views on Google video before they took it down and
only has like 10 million on YouTube.
I mean, sure, if you want the DVD, we sell it, but that doesn't matter.
I don't care about that.
All I know is I'm not saying this current super bird flu, the worst ever that's gone
from 67% mortality that they thought was the end of the world to almost 40% in just a year.
I'm not saying this is disease X, the UN, the globalists are saying disease X is coming.
It's going to wipe out populations and we're going to use disease X to bring in world government
and disease X is going to be the answer to nationalism and to Donald Trump and to these
populations that want to pull out of the IMF and World Bank and the globalists who've
all been building bunkers and moving to Kauai and Lenai and Tasmania and having Air Force
bases, Private Air Force bases, Larry Ellison, worth, you know, 70-something billion.
He bought Lenai, a private island in Hawaii, has a private Air Force base set up and I
talked to people that are involved in it.
It all looks very nice and everything, but the approach, they've got like pillars at
the fortresses that pop up and have got, you know, robot 50 cows at them and bunker bases
under it.
And I was told this by locals, I already knew about it when they came to me, I had law
enforcement come to me in Hawaii because I was in Maui right across the water.
My wife at 5 a.m. is like, why are you getting up, where did you go for six hours?
I'll tell you, I was there, I had law enforcement come to me, detectives, and I'm going to
only get them in trouble and leave it there.
And they said, what you say is true, we've talked to the people, what they're doing
over there.
And then I looked up a bunch of an open source and it's true, he bought an airline, it's
now been shut down but the planes are going in and out, there's giant earth-moving equipment
and he's building a bunker on a private island, they're all doing it.
Now I'm not saying it's going to happen next month or next year or 10 years from, I got
four kids, I don't have bunkers.
And so I don't want this to be real.
Yeah, there it is, there's mainstream news articles talking about all this stuff, it's
just that when you've got scared senior police officers coming to you and they say, look,
we can't tell you everything, they've got people obviously on security over there and
they're reporting back to police what's going on and they're acting like it's the damn
end of the world.
They've got private armies, underground bunkers at former US bases there, that's a former
US base, used to be a targeting range, a proving ground, I mean, folks, they're like ants right
now running around, getting ready for something and all I'm telling you is there's an airborne
weapon that many experts believe is being engineered and they've looked at it, I remember
10 years ago they were saying they looked at bird flu, top, remember hundreds and hundreds
of top genetic engineers and bio weapons experts and virologists kept getting killed and run
over and shot and drowned and some were killed in weird satanic rituals, it was even the
Washington Post and it's like a thousand are dead now.
I was covering this 20 years ago, hell.
So they're saying there's an airborne bio weapon, whether it's manmade or not, that
kills 38.3% of people that come in contact with it, it's airborne, it's airborne, it's
in China that's just popped up today, the UN admits it and no one's covering it with
zero hedge and in fours and so I just want to get people thinking about this and talking
about it because the globalists may not pull some of this if they think they can't get
away from it.
If they think that they can't escape the blame for it or that we don't know about their bunkers
or that they don't know that the survivors are going to go dig them out if they're involved
in it, they'll get trials, don't worry, but you've got Oprah and the globalist all meeting
with David Rockefeller before he died saying we're going to reduce population and you've
got it being the world government plan and you've got him wanting to block the human
awakening to what they're doing and the globalists believe that the earth belongs to them and
now something that scientists believe may kill four billion people or more is airborne
and people don't even act like it's a big deal.
How many times have we told you about things years before it comes true?
I don't want this to come true.
The globalists have lined it all up.
They're geared up.
They say it's coming.
They say in all these white papers, Bill Joy and others who are good, they've met with
the billionaires and they go, oh, the decision's been made to wipe everybody out.
What do you think Elon Musk is warning you about?
What do you think Kanye?
It's a bigger plan.
Let's not wipe everybody out.
Let's go to the stars.
Let's not stoke race war, culture war.
Let's not have a war with Islam.
Let's come together.
We have infinite resources now and go to the stars, but I'm telling you, it's all over
the news and I first told you decades ago that globalists have moved to bunkers all
over remote islands with mercenaries and airports and gunships and there are 20 stories under
major mountains and they're always ready with jets ready to haul ass.
So if you start seeing a bunch of people die in China and you see it, oh, 1,000 dead,
100,000 dead, and by the time you hear it's 100,000 dead, it'll be here on these airplanes
and you won't have anywhere to go.
My instinct's been for years to get a place way out in West Texas and just pull out and
get my family ready and everybody that's got instincts realizes we're in great danger.
That's why I'm trying to get this out in the open so we can have an open debate about it
so that the globalists don't pull this or that we get ready for it to naturally occur.
God bless you all.
More coming at infowars.com and newswars.com.
I don't have all the answers, but I am a trailblazer and I'm dialed into the zeitgeist
and I'm telling you this is important.
You've never seen airborne pathogens of this level that kill 40%.
God bless you all.
Please pray for discernment and please pray for life and peace.
Please pray for a human future and not a silicon god future.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with
vitamin mineral fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
We can't extend this free shipping sale much longer with our bestselling items at InfowarsStore.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few more days.
We're also running out of some of our bestselling items like our amazing Neutropic Rainforest.
It's $19.95.
Leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good.
It's a great deal normally at $39.95.
Rainforest, you've never tried it.
This is a great opportunity.
$19.95.
Also, alpha power is 50% off.
If you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina, focus, libido,
it does so many things.
X2, even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals of the good halogen
iodine, I am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few days at
50% off.
And then after that, it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of it.
Thank you all for helping fund the Second American Global Revolution.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused
with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at infowarstore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most
concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the
Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the U.S.A. Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You've tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones show.
One of the great playboys of all time, no question about it.
But in between marriages, I have numerous reports of FBI agents fanning out and asking
associates and former associates and those about the president and women.
I thought this was about rushing collusion.
What does this have to do with the 2016 election?
But it just gives you some idea where this special counsel may be headed.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
You were the president's wingman for many years.
Yes.
So that's really what you, you guys have been buddies.
Yes.
And they began asking, Mueller's people began asking about questions about the president
and women.
Since they asked those questions about Jack Kennedy, what do you think?
So I don't know what it is they want.
Well, I think you should get out front of it because the stuff I read, they know, it's
all been back when they loved Trump called the New York Times, it was in the New York
Post, it was in the New Yorker, about Roger Stone and Trump seen out again with three
lovely ladies or whatever, it was always in between his divorces.
I mean, you told me some of the stories, well, you didn't tell me anything that wasn't
known.
I just asked you about a year ago.
Is this true?
Well, yeah, in between divorces, we would double date.
One of the great playboys of all time, no question about it, but in between marriages.
And you predicted this after the election and then even later, they're going to keep
coming back at him with the women.
And that's clearly one of the directions.
And the women have said, and I've asked you that he, if anything, he spoils the hell
out of women.
But why is Mueller going around asking people about questions about the president and women?
It seems totally inappropriate.
Wait a minute, is this about Russian collusion in the 2016 election?
Evidently not.
I gotta say, this whole corrupt world of everything, it's kind of refreshing, you know, a guy that
likes women.
Well, the president definitely likes women.
Of that, there is no doubt.
Like women too, what's wrong with that?
It just shows you how far afield and how the resolve of these people to remove the president
and the deep animus they have for him.
And the more.
But what does it say that they can't find anybody to say anything that's real?
There's nothing.
Well, that's why they're trying to presumably squeeze Michael Cone.
That's why they're going to try to squeeze me.
You know, we're going to send you to jail for 10 years unless you tell us the president
did X.
I'm not playing that game.
I'm not going to testify against Donald Trump.
Well, it's like the one lady he dated for like six months in the New York Times, right
before the election, year and a half ago, 18 months ago.
I forget her name, but she said the day after, she was, no, they misquoted me because he
called her fat and was mean to her.
No, she said all he was was super nice, bought me all these things.
He was so gentlemanly and treated me so good, it was almost off-putting that he was such
a gentleman, you know, girls don't like guys that are too nice, but he was so great.
And yeah, he did tell me, hey, we both need to lose some weight.
They took that hat and say he told me I was fat and he said, we both ought to at dinner,
not eat dessert, we're both getting fat.
I mean, that's the worst thing you ever did to a woman.
It's Trump derangement syndrome, it really is.
And the more successful he is, the better the economy does, the better the prospects
for peace, the more hysterical the deep state.
And I think that's really revealing.
We're talking about the bottom of the hour.
We're going to call some 30 seconds, but let me just ask you this.
You really should, the way to defend him is just go ahead and tell folks.
I mean, you tell me, he treats women really nice.
I mean, have you ever seen Trump mistreating women?
Never.
How would you describe the way he treats women?
Put some on a pedestal.
Look, he's very respectful, he's also very discreet, but the fact that we're even talking
about this is incredible.
But it's not us doing it, they're the ones.
Well, clearly, Mr. Mueller is going there.
I have numerous reports of FBI agents fanning out and asking associates and former associates
and those about the president and women.
I thought this was about rushing collusion.
What does this have to do with the 2016 election?
But it just gives you some idea where this special counsel may be headed.
The big news is the FBI is coming to you.
They're coming to your associates.
They're bringing me up a lot, but now they've moved from that into, it's just 1340 people
they brought me up to, and then we're all these masterminds running everything, which
isn't true.
We just want freedom, common sense stuff, and then now they're getting into going back
decades ago.
Nothing to do with Russia.
Nothing to do with anything.
Not even taxes.
It's all, well, what are the questions that you're hearing that the FBI is asking about
Rodgerstone, Donald Trump, and women?
It's more about Donald Trump and women.
Some of my associates were asked this, but other people I know who have been questioned
by the FBI in the Mueller probe have told me that there seems to be a focus on the president's
relationship with women.
I'm not going to talk about that ever.
I'm not going to talk about out of school about the president.
I don't know anything that would be detrimental to him.
And the idea that they would cook up some offense against me as an effort to get me
to roll on the president is probably what they have in mind.
But I have proven there is no Russian collusion.
There is no WikiLeaks collusion.
I didn't know about John Podesta's email in advance.
There's no evidence of that.
I never paid for or bought any information.
Everything I did in connection with the presidential election was legal.
I'm not the target here.
The president is the target.
But it's put me and my family under enormous pressure.
Think of having a runaway federal prosecutor in every molecule of your being, reading
your emails.
But to be specific, they're really desperate.
You didn't tell me any secrets.
I just had some New York Times articles over the phone.
And I said, is this accurate?
Is that accurate?
Because that was even during the campaign, I wanted to make sure I wasn't bet on the
wrong horse or something.
It wouldn't come out.
And you said, listen, he treats women really great.
He puts them on a pedestal.
He puts them to this whole courtship thing because he's a germaphobe.
And the fact that he'd be even promiscuous as bull, he's a playboy.
He'd date a lot of women when he's divorced.
He treats them really great.
But then the taste level is extraordinary.
He dated supermodels.
Well, I was about to say, but then you told me a little more.
You said that, but if they give him any trouble or act weird, he didn't put up with that either.
I mean, just in general, you were his friend.
You were his wingman.
You're not going to give a secret, just in general, to Trump's relationship to women.
How does he treat him?
Extraordinary.
And his taste level, I mean, Melania, his wife, who's a wonderful person, is typical
of the kind of woman that he dated in between marriages.
And she was, of course, the woman he chose.
Because you've got tins, but you've also got 10, 10, 10, like in gymnastics, I mean,
solid tins across the board.
She's smart.
She's beautiful.
She's cool.
Her presence is amazing.
Supermodels.
He had a tendency to date supermodels, and he wasn't shy about it.
And he was enormously discreet.
He is a gentleman.
Beyond that, I'm not going to go.
But never anything about roughing women up.
Never a problem.
Not his thing.
Well, they've been all over everything with the fine-tuned cone.
There's nothing there.
That's why the rudimentary idea in this ridiculous dossier that he would somehow enjoy
watching women urinate on each other, that's not Donald Trump.
That's not his thing.
He would find that disgusting.
That's what's so outrageous about it.
It's not even credible as an idea.
So he was one of the great playboys of all time.
He's not into degrading women, for sure.
And he's not into the stuff that Democrats and people are into.
The whole scatological thing.
Definitely not.
He is an admitted germaphobe when he thought about running for president in 2000 very briefly.
He would tell you today it was more my idea than his.
He went through about a gallon of Purell a day for, you know, for hen cleansing.
You've tuned in to the special Father's Day edition of the Alex Jones show.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globlest.
It is you, the InfoWarriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward
slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
With debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable
meals is crucial.
With InfoWars, life selects storable food.
You can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's
no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such
as traveler stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner.
InfoWars life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWars life selects storable foods.
InfoWars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
It was sent down straight from the top, from the home office, completely unprecedented.
These things don't normally happen.
He told me directly on Tuesday the facts that he told me he wanted out immediately as fast
as possible because if anything does happen to him and he's at massive risk, he wants
the world to know exactly what's going on.
All right.
I am taking over the fourth hour today to take your phone calls.
I was going to go directly to him right now, but Tommy Robinson spokesman needs to come
on earlier.
He's in the street in London.
We're going to talk to him for this segment, a little bit of the next, and I promise we're
going to take 20-year phone calls with Roger Stone about how's Trump doing, what do you
make of the IG report, North Korea.
Are we thankful for how things have turned around?
I know I sure am.
I wasn't just a negative person before.
I didn't like what the Globals were doing.
We're taking the country back.
History's happening.
We're such an instant gratification society.
Even a lot of Trump supporters I know are like, well, he's the guy we needed.
He's a wrecking ball.
He's not perfect.
You know, man, I sacrifice a lot, but nothing like Tommy Robinson, a political prisoner.
They now admit was moved into a Muslim wing and who they are, who they are saying they're
going to kill him.
And there is an imam putting the fat to wild.
And only Drudge picked this up two days ago.
Three days ago, the media was saying, I made it up, Roger, and it really frustrates me
that they're like this.
We broke that Hillary's server was broken into from international intelligence sources
and Colonel Schaefer in January of 2016.
That's why they hate us because we are so truthful, Roger.
It's extraordinary.
You could expect this to be happening in a Muslim country, in a Middle Eastern country,
that is happening in the UK just boggles the mind.
And the silence of the national media, the mainstream media, with the exception of Drudge,
is extraordinary.
Without Drudge, you wouldn't even know that I was banned on YouTube.
Then when they reinstated, as Bloomberg said, it was a mutiny, someone did without authorization.
How sensational is that?
I don't mean to kiss Drudge's butt, it's true.
Without Drudge, he's the guy that continues to be the final domino to break up in the
wall.
He does have enormous reach.
It reminds me of when they said, oh no, we didn't turn off Sean Hannity's Twitter feed.
Some guy poured spilled Coca-Cola on the control board.
It was all a mistake.
And what they're doing is testing it to get us just worn out of hearing about it, until
they finally ban you or Milo.
Let's go for this segment, and then part of the next, we're going to write the calls,
to Kalin Robertson, and he joins us right now on the street.
Again, he had the bravery to go on the air with no one else would.
He's Tommy Spokesperson.
Tommy told me that directly before he even went to jail about a week before.
He is fighting for his life right now in the Muslim wing.
The media spends it and goes, well, it's a Muslim wing.
The whole prison isn't 70%, only that wing.
So they've picked an Islamic prison with a Muslim wing to throw in Tommy Robinson, and
he's got new developments for us.
Kalin, thank you for joining us and giving us updates.
It's good to see his lawyers coming out confirming everything you said a day after you said it.
Yeah, thanks so much for having us as well.
And thank you so much for covering all of this stuff.
Sorry, it's just very busy in London, we're trying to do this period really quickly right
now.
So basically, the news reports that you've just been talking about, completely insane.
They said that it was 70% made up, nothing out of nowhere.
Tommy told us directly that it looked like that.
It looked about 70% on his wing, and they were saying, oh, well, there's no such thing
as a 70% Muslim.
So that whole thing's nonsense.
But they're using their usual tactics to try to discredit everything that we're doing
and to try to discredit all of the facts and try and brush it all over and say that nothing
is actually wrong.
So obviously reiterating our phone call a couple of days ago, the facts are still the
same.
We have had a little bit of communication since then, and he still is okay.
However, I can reconfirm everything we spoke about the other night.
He was moved to a really dangerous prison.
It was really bad.
It has a much higher Muslim population.
It's actually got a record of having terrible violent crime, if you look it up and tell.
He's actually just been moved to solitary confinement, and he's sort of in a room with
a blue mat on the floor, completely bizarre.
So we know that at least he's safe in that period for now.
But because he's in that situation, it means that communication is going to be a little
bit more difficult in the meantime.
So we don't know if he's going to be immediately put back into that really dangerous thing.
We don't know if he's going to be shoved to another prison that's even more dangerous.
Those threats have been passed on to him.
But what we do know is obviously that he's been moved there.
He's been moved to a more dangerous situation.
It wasn't by the governors.
It wasn't by the prison guards.
It wasn't by any usual process that normally takes place in a prison like this.
It was sent down straight from the top, from the home office, completely unprecedented.
These things don't normally happen.
And that's why we've got so many people now writing to the home office.
So much pressure from people in America trying to say, what on earth are you doing?
You're basically putting someone in the firing line with direct orders from the top.
It doesn't make any sense.
And those are the new developments.
And that's the bombshell news.
TopOnInFullWars.com, thank God drudging to it last night.
Order to send Tommy Robinson to heavily Muslim populated prison came from the top, activist,
safety and dangerous result of high risk status being removed from his file.
And now you say that they've thrown him back in solitary confinement, which is more cruel
and unusual punishment for reporting that there was a trial on Muslim grooming gangs,
which even the media reported on.
They said he reported on the trial itself.
And so 13 months in the Islamic wing, a certain death sentence or 13 months in solitary confinement,
silencing him, being able to talk to you every few days.
So I guess you haven't been able to talk to him since you talked to him on Tuesday and
gave us that emergency message.
No, it seemed like they really weren't happy about that information going out and they
seem to cut off a lot of things.
We have had some communication but not directly between him and I that he is actually still
safe and he's okay, but they're really clamping down on the information that's coming out.
He doesn't want him talking to the outside world.
He doesn't want any, they don't want any fuss being made.
They don't want you doing what you're doing.
They don't want judge putting it on the front page.
They want it to be a nothing burger.
They tried to silence it as soon as he got in prison, prison as we know, but that didn't
work.
And now they're trying to say that it's all nonsense because the statistics are slightly
off, but that's what they're trying to do.
So they don't want any information coming out about him because it builds up a frenzy.
It gets people upset to get people up rightfully.
And so the next stages are basically going through the legal process as what we're doing
now and doing everything we can to make sure that he's not in that situation, that he can
have communications with the outside world because he wants this information to get out.
He told me directly on Tuesday the facts that he told me he wanted out immediately as fast
as possible because if anything does happen to him and he's at massive risk, he wants
the world to know exactly what's going on and he knows people are listening.
And again, when he first got arrested, for three days there was a D notice where the
media couldn't report he was arrested and they had news saying I made that up and you
made that up, then they confirmed that, then they had an order not to cover the demonstrations.
I mean, this is so authoritarian what the UK is becoming.
And now Roger and I are talking about being political prisoners, we're under attack, Paul
Manafort has been grabbed and put in jail today.
I mean, this is really wild.
People don't seem to realize that it's going to happen to them next.
It's bizarre because it's taught me of because he's perceived as extreme.
They say, oh, of course, he's getting carried away, he looks a little bit rough, doesn't
he?
He looks like he's capable of that.
But after Tommy, it's going to come for you, it's going to come for everybody else,
it's going to come for people in the middle, it's going to come from anyone who's even
slightly dissident and who has said anything even slightly against the government or the
PC policies or anything that's been going on in the last sort of 10 years in Britain.
And they don't realize how creeping this process is and how slow and how creeping it is.
And they don't care.
It's so blatant as well.
So just make him disappear.
One second, Tommy's on the street bringing the facts he's got millions of views.
He's in the public spotlight.
The next second, he's in a room for 23 hours a day on a mat on the floor.
They make people disappear within seconds and they can still get away with it.
Well, just about.
We'll see what's going to happen soon, but it's absolutely battling how blatant and
open and in the open.
All right, let's talk about what we can do and just what's happening in the UK.
We come back.
Go ahead.
We need to pray.
We need to lift Tommy Robinson up with prayer.
All the info warriors, we need to be praying for his safety right now.
Let's pray for him when we come back.
I think it's important.
Absolutely.
Prayer is number one, folks.
It's it's absolutely number.
Oh, no.
We talked about it just the other day.
It's true.
There are no atheists in foxholes and my head is spinning.
And we're going to all your phone calls.
Stay with us.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Wow.
When freedom fails, the best men rot in filthy jails and those that cry to peace appease
are hung by those they tried to please, you know, someone you've tuned in to the
special father's day edition of the Alex Jones show.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
Info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winner
sun a revolutionary type of vitamin D3 winner sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional
supplement.
It's produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely
low price this is it.
Winner sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at info wars life.com about winner sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function something the globalist are targeting.
Visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Faced off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions we've sourced
only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America patriot blend
coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee being carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used
in big agricultural productions patriot blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with great
depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused
with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of patriot blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at infowarstore.com.
For more information visit infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's Alex Jones live from Austin
Texas broadcasting worldwide from the info wars.com studios.
We're kicking these trainers asses politically and we're not backing down at her.
We have broken their back yes I can feel it.
Hello hello hello hello hey baby boy come on.
And at the end of the transmission, I'm going to cover the most important information we've covered in the last hour and 50 minutes.
The international currency of the global psychopathic kleptocracy is the rape of children, the trafficking of children, the torture of children, the murder of children.
And that's how Zbigniew Brzezinski even admitted in several books he wrote that global elites control populations.
Former National Security Advisor wrote multiple books admitting that governments controlled organized crime, even child trafficking.
And sex parties and Satanism with men and women is only the gateway drug into molesting children, abusing children, using children up and then strangling them or bleeding them out.
I know the secrets of eyes wide shut. I'm not allowed to tell you.
I was given it in confidence by Vivian Kubrick, but I'm going to leave it just at that.
But there is a lot of news in Europe and some in Asia, but nothing in the United States.
And I've noticed that there will be Italian TV piece.
One that I saw about 15 years ago, one of thousands of stories like this that got out supporters of their job on a national magazine show of little Italian children grabbed and taken into Eastern Europe, two and three year old boys raped, gang raped by men till their guts are coming out of them.
And then they shoot the little baby boys in the head with 357 magnums.
And the big story was that they had sold thousands of VHS tapes is still how they did it.
One offs.
And the main place that had been shipped was Hollywood, California.
Because, oh, the elites, they deserve everything. It's all about them and how arrogant they are and how divorced from God they are. And they were taken to stuff as an evil thrill to get closer to the dark energy that they believe they get power from.
And then I remember reading in the foreign press how those reporters were fired after it aired.
Not because it wasn't accurate.
They were just fired.
So I've been told, you leave this alone or we're coming after you.
And you've got the pedos coming out of the woodwork at Vice and at the New York Times and at Salon, you can look it up.
It's all, it was promoting it saying, it shows these guys saying that they lust after four year old girls and that they're not bad people.
And they just look like demons directly out of hell.
A pedo opens up about being targeted by vigilantes.
It's all other victims and how good they are.
I'm a pedophile, but not a monster.
The New York Times, all of this and the early psychological movement was pushing sex with kids.
That's what this is.
They want the psychic vampires, whether you believe in God or not.
There's people that get off on hurting innocents.
So that said, this guy I've studied him was a Wrenfield.
He was allowed to get out of Australia.
You have the deputy pope being tried for kidnapping over 100 young boys and traveling him.
He's totally guilty of having a secret trial in Australia.
But this guy was a Wrenfield.
He would deliver them to the Dracula.
And I'm saying spiritually they're vampires, not physically.
Though blood drinking is at the tip of what they do.
And so this is all over the foreign news.
This is out of the sun.
It's linked up on infowars.com.
And at his sentencing, he smiled and laughed and thought it was really cute.
And of course, notice he looks just like Peter, just like Jimmy Savelle.
Some of these guys' names are going to be mixed up.
He looks just like Jimmy Savelle.
Peter does.
Let's pull up Jimmy Savelle for TV viewers.
Radio listeners looking up.
Oh, they found his underground dungeons, his best friends with the royal family,
and was shipping kids all over to everybody.
They bring kids in and slip their throats in front of the prime minister.
Reportedly, World's Worst Peter Scully, who filmed baby rapes, tortured kids,
and made them dig their own graves, smirks at life in jail.
And if you're a radio listener, you didn't miss anything when we showed him smirking.
But how about the hot young ladies that like to wear little eyes-wide shut masks
and show people that that are in the videos?
Not the Hollywood video, but the screenshots in the article.
But let's scroll down and show folks some of that.
Or just do me a document cam shot. I can do it right here.
Look at the evil look on this guy.
But look up Jimmy Savelle and see how they same look.
That's the look of the Renfield.
That's the supplier. That's the supplier.
Look, guys, search engine, Jimmy Savelle, Child Sex Candles.
You'll have it. We'll put it on screen.
There he is, Peter Gerald Scully, the evil rapist fled charges in Australia in 2011
and moved to areas where he would entice impoverished children with money and gifts.
He then drug the vulnerable youngsters and made films of him raping and torturing them
for an international pedophile ring.
Oh, those don't exist. The media always says I'm insane.
I say those exist. They do not exist. They say.
Filipino police say Scully, who buried 11-year-old under a floor of a house.
This is just the one house that he lived in for a few months that they caught him with.
He was renting after making a film about him raping her and strangling her to death.
Operating a secret child pornography site on the dark web called No Limits Fun,
he sold videos for up to $10,000 per view.
Yeah, they were selling the videos of them raping little boys in gang rapes
and then blowing their heads off for $20,000 apiece.
But the U.S., the FBI said they would not even investigate it.
And then it just goes on from there.
In the film, called with Barbie playing Daisy, Alvarez,
and he would participate in the child torture and sexual assault,
the little girl screams and cries as she is beaten, raped, tortured and defiled by Scully
and his two mask accomplices.
Then they light her on fire, use barbed wire, torture her, water border,
and then jam giant objects in her and then kill her.
And I hate to get into all this, but this is who runs things.
Let me show you the young women. Document camp shot, please.
Here they are, just like Eyes Wide Shut.
Just like Eyes Wide Shut.
Look at the young ladies are enjoying their power right now.
It feels so good to torture that five-year-old girl to death.
Some of the babies he raped to death were one-year-old.
And that's the big thing is that the big thing they like is a kid and then their guts coming out.
The big thing is they'll...
I hate to get graphic here, but the Satanists like to rip children's guts out, their rare ends.
Okay, so that's who runs things and that's who puts fluoride in your water
and that's who thinks you're a slave and that's who thinks that they're unstoppable
and that's who thinks they can dominate you and that there's nothing you can do.
Because they're so evil, you can't even imagine it.
So they're going to hit you with GMO to warp your genetics.
They're going to hit you with fluoride.
They're going to microwave you with G5, 5G.
They're going to brainwash your kids. They're going to sexualize your children.
They're going to promote Satanism everywhere and you're going to appreciate it and love it.
And then they're going to sell the videos everywhere and you're not going to stop them, they think.
I didn't get to the big exclusive with Roger Stone where he breaks down how it was an FBI informant,
a man who'd been an informant before, with an anglicized name who had a Russian background
trying to sell him info that he didn't buy and that's how they were trying to plant breadcrumbs.
But the media's spreading it like Trump's been caught.
Oh my God, Russia Gates real.
So that's all up on infowars.com with that exclusive and Lord willing, we'll be covering it all tomorrow.
If you want to stand against these devil worshipers, you want to stand against the sensors,
the big telecom and big tech heads, a lot of them that are into this,
then you need to take this video and this article and this information and ram it down their dirty stinking
throats and let them know that we're on to them.
And you need to also know we're ending tomorrow.
It's going to go on for two weeks.
The free shipping on our bestselling items and 50% off our bestselling supplements like Brainforce X2,
Super Mill Vitality, The Real Red Pill Plus, Bodies and so much more.
And when you fund us, it just blocks sorrows and the globalists and all these open groups that want to shut us down.
CNN and all the other fake news dirt bags that invert reality.
You can just assume whatever they say is the opposite and look it up.
It usually is. God, they lie when telling the truth to help them.
They just can't help it. They're up their father, the devil.
They're all a bunch of scum.
Super predators that will be brought down.
Infowars.com, newswars.com.
I say no to your plan. I say yes to a human future.
God bless you all. Please spread the live links.
We can't extend this free shipping sale much longer with our bestselling items at InfowarsStore.com.
In fact, we can only run it a few more days.
We're also running out of some of our bestselling items like our amazing Neutropic Rain Force.
It's $19.95. Leading competitors are $60 and aren't even as good.
It's a great deal, normally, at $39.95.
Rain Force, you've never tried it. This is a great opportunity.
$19.95. Also, Alpha Power is 50% off.
If you don't know what it's done for me and so many others for stamina, focus, libido.
It does so many things.
Even though we're having trouble sourcing the deep earth crystals of the good halogen iodine,
I am blowing out the stockpile of it we have at least for another few days at 50% off.
And then after that, it's going to go back to full price until we secure more of it.
Infowars.com, Infowars.com, more triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Thank you all for helping fund the Second American Global Revolution.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to,
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
