How you like me now?
It's Tuesday, the 26th day of June 2018, and I come in here occasionally every few months
and I say this may be the most important broadcast I've ever done.
I used to say that every couple of years, but there's a quickening, a lot of big things
happening and everyone knows that Info Wars has its finger on the zeitgeist.
You've heard me saying they plan on civil unrest leading to civil war, soft civil war,
it's a term I coined about a year and a half ago, watching the enemy's activities, watching
what they've done in other countries, knowing that it is, stay behind networks of globalists
in the CIA running this, well, the blueprints of how they've done this in other countries
and then how they've operated here domestically are crystal clear.
But yesterday, if you'll remember, I rebroadcast about Happen Show because I was so pregnant
and thought that I was not saying at all or not giving you the future because I've already
told you what was coming and then now it's here, so I need to stop proving I was right
and I need to tell you what's going to happen.
Now the White House watches, the Pentagon watches, and they've got a good idea as well,
but I'm going to lay out exactly what Mueller is going to do, I'm going to lay out exactly
what Pelosi is going to do, I'm going to lay out exactly what Brennan and Clapper and
all the usual suspects and Comey are going to do.
And we've got their battle plan, so this is a big deal, we need to lay it all out because
this is undoubtedly up to this point, most important broadcast that I've ever done.
And it is incumbent on everyone to understand why they're trying to squeeze down Info Wars
and why they're trying to block us is because they know our talking points are dead on and
will torpedo their entire agenda.
They know that if the talking points get to the President, who is now back to doing whatever
he wants that they're done, now Trump already has great instincts and doesn't need me to
tell him what to do, but I have been asked to present what I think to the military,
the police and everyone else, and I'm going to do that.
And it's a big responsibility, but I can tell you that this is the only broadcast out there
that's doing anything like this.
Sean Hannity has begun to do some of it, that's wonderful, that's why they want him off the
air.
Tucker Carlson's son, that's great, but they are under a lot of pressure.
I know for a fact, Hannity was almost thrown out a year ago, but he didn't back down.
So I'm just telling you that there is a very small fraternity of people that will even
go near the reality.
And I have been asked because other people are waiting, I have to do it first.
You understand that?
And I thought it was like when Soros would put this in his publications constantly and
saying they're following Jones' talking points, we've got to shut him down.
And I thought, oh, well, they just think I'm just discrediting, so they're always focusing
on me as a way to hurt Trump.
That's not what it is.
They've got it figured out.
And it is a real revelation.
It's also a sickening burden.
The average little narcissistic devil worshiper out there would just love to have power because
they have no idea what they even do with it.
I'd be like one of the minions and despicable me blowing itself up with TNT or something.
So this is big stuff, and I just have to tell you how big it is.
I can't just sit here and put out the info and then not tell you that it is the info.
It is the info.
And it is the future.
And if you have the enemy battle plan, you should be able to stop it.
So I've told you everything up till now, it was going to happen, and it's happened 98%
like I said.
But we can change the future.
It's choose your own adventure.
So when we come back, I'm going to brief the world, the military, the police, everybody
about possible futures, infowars.com, newswars.com, stay with us.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
It's Tuesday, June 26, 2018.
I'm about to brief the listeners, the viewers, the president, other individuals watching around
the world about the current best estimates on the globalist attack plan for Europe and
the United States.
As many of the people in our government already know, we're in the midst of World War Four.
World War Three, of course, is what the CIA called the Cold War.
World War Four is by megacorporations against individual nations and the family and the human
biological system itself.
It is a complete technotronic, technocracy, genetic takeover of the planet itself in the
words of Google and the other technocrats.
They are planning to fully implode the third world nations that they control.
They've been exploding for decades.
They have put in policies in the third world to double their populations and then deploy
those populations against the West in a giant cloud and piven type program to bankrupt the
social compact and bring the world back into a new dark age of collapsed austerity and starvation
that will depopulate at least 80% of the Earth.
There will then be a de-evolution to city-states, corporate city-states, corporate islands that
will be high-tech breakaway civilization oases.
Now, I've been telling viewers and listeners about this for 20-plus years because it's
in the globalist white papers.
But we're here now and they are executing the operation.
Now, their operation is being executed while sane individuals in our governments, in corporations
and in government, military, private life have seen enough of the plan.
They know how bad it is.
They've known about it for a long time, but they've been bullied, intimidated, attacked.
So, patriots in the last few decades have gone out and recruited and started organizations
around the world like UKIP and others and what Ron Paul and others did to begin for
the preparation and defense against the main globalist move, which they always, again,
would deny was happening so we would be flat-footed, but we were not caught completely flat-footed.
In fact, the globalists were caught flat-footed when they went to their main launch.
Everything else had been preparation.
So we are here and currently the West is under total attack using humanity, using huge streams
of desperate people leaving collapsed globalist-controlled systems like Venezuela, Cuba, the collapsing
Middle East, which, again, seven years ago Obama and Hillary on record triggered to collapse
good governments, moderate governments to destroy economic infrastructures in four different
nations that were stabilizing all the Middle East and Africa.
This is an admitted post-industrialization sabotage plan to then collapse Africa, collapse
the Middle East, use that for destabilization to begin to collapse the civil unrest into
the stands, into Russia, into Asia, collapsing into Western Europe, collapsing the United
States, using Latin America.
This is all a plan.
And Ronald Reagan was briefed on the plan in 1983 when they discovered that the Democratic
Party was already having meetings with the Ford Foundation, this has all been in congressional
hearings, you can pull them up on YouTube, and they were planning to use giant third-world
populations that they would bring into the U.S., turn against the U.S., have them racially
identify against whites, and then basically have a weatherman style, you've seen the tapes
of the weatherman talking about having a collapse, and then having a race war in America that
then allows the U.N. to come in to stabilize things.
Well, we've now seen a replay of that plan.
We've now seen that, and the left in PBS went, oh my God, look, FEMA camps, Rex 84, to put
whole families in these things, and even back when I was first waking up, people would
deny that that was real, but I knew it was in government documents and congressional hearings
that I'd read about newspapers.
It wasn't until years later, I actually saw the video that had been on C-SPAN years before
that I'd missed that somebody had archived.
And so then I realized that Reagan wasn't perked by any yardstick, but they put in
Rex 84 to activate U.S. military bases, if we got hit with 25 million people, if Latin
America collapsed, as part of a globalist communist plot, that they would have to then
house all these people and not let the disruption be triggered to then burn down cities and
bring in the leftist breakdown of society and civil unrest that they wanted for a civil
war.
You can go read synopses in the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Miami Herald of Rex
84, much of it's been declassified, garden plot, cable splicer, and then if you read
the news today, you see Trump is implementing the beginning stages of Rex 84, and it would
be called Rex 2018 or Rex 18 today.
So Trump has implemented, probably has the same name, Rex 18.
And again, it shows how you learn things as you get older.
That is a U.S. stabilization emergency program, and it's an active measure preparation training
scenario that they've been carrying out at least since 1984 that has now gone live.
Now, it's not martial law as the left advertised it, and again this showed how I didn't understand
when I was reading 25 years ago.
This was the preparation, if they tried to have a civil war, to simply be able to house
the giant populations during a collapse event.
The same thing they're doing in Europe, bringing in over 10 million military aged men, building
the migrant bases, inviting everyone in to collapse the borders, to collapse the social
safety net, so the U.N. can come in and announce an emergency reorganization of the E.U., an
emergency reorganization of North America, which is in Reuters today, U.N. to present
plan for Mediterranean migrant centers and an E.U. Army, which they've already set up,
to block the nation states stopping the Islamists pouring in.
So again, there's thousands of angles and points, but I'm trying to give a condensed
synopsis of this, and then the most important point when we come back from break, is I'm
mainly briefing the general public at this point, the President knows all this, obviously.
What has to be understood is the Democrats, by their action, their body language, their
telecommunications, their signals, their demeanor, and their previous activity, indicating future
activity, and all of their preparations show that Antifa has withdrawn and is prepping
for assassinations, brutal attacks, they're going to hit, they're going to hit hard.
They are preparing arson, they're preparing to attack police stations, they're just the
front for other more professional paramilitary teams that are going to be in behind them,
they're just the throwaway decoys.
And as of now, the deep state, the globalist, and you see it everywhere, are preparing the
atmosphere by the middle of August, late August, unless we get the word out and back them down
and stop them, they're going to trigger from soft civil war to real civil war, and then
Mueller in September is going to begin a WikiLeaks-type cascade where he begins to dribble out fake
news and disinfo about Trump being a Russian agent, corruption, women's scandals, Rodgers
Stone stuff, Alex Jones stuff, he's joining us by the hour, exclusive of what they're
now looking into.
My filmmaking, Joel Gilbert's filmmaking, the FBI's considering saying our films are
criminal and are political speech that are criminal, they already tried to charge Gilbert
before, remember three years ago, saying he violated campaign finance law.
So they're looking at criminal charges against me, and you have to understand, this will
be during martial law and burning cities and Trump being assassinated or being forced
to step down.
So you're like, well, that'll never happen, no, no, they're getting the charges and everything
lined up for thousands of people.
Now a lot of us will just get hit at 3 a.m., so I'm telling you, they're going to begin
triggering in August, maybe even earlier because we're exposing it, and it's not launching
well, it's not going well right now.
Then by September, middle of September, they're going to start releasing all the stuff on
Trump that's made up and cooked up, and you've got senators canning at that, buckle up for
more, Robert Mueller, Russia revelations, key Senate Democrats, you know, says at a
party, blah, blah, blah, Senator Mark Warner, oh, and just like we heard from Tom Arnold
that, oh, he was going to be with Cohen and he was going to bring down Trump and Cohen
had all the dirt, it was a hoax.
They're just going to launch a bunch of hoaxes coming up in September into October, and they'll
either try to have them via the 25th Amendment, as they've already announced, have Trump stand
down and have his cabinet turn against him, and if that doesn't work, they will probably
blow up the White House or shoot down his aircraft.
Disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes, and drops, poor circulation, and irregular heartbeat
are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order
online, hbextract.com, heart and body extract, 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price, the Fox Carambit Knife.
Finally available in the U.S., the Fox Carambit Knife opens with one hand, faster than you
can pull a handgun.
For utility, for defense, and for way less than other knives of this caliber, go to the
ultimateknife.com, truly the best knife you will ever own, and only available at theultimateknife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price, at theultimateknife.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Schipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a
shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church, to get
them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you
need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
It's time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other
products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out at a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, InfowarsLive.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Now continuing with my emergency briefing to the planet and to all the Patriots around
the world and here in the U.S. that want to have prosperous nation stage with true open
free societies.
We are witnessing the corporate world government assault on Europe, Australia, the U.K., the
U.S. with hundreds of millions of illegals.
You've seen Macron talk about the leprosy of the West and the leprosy of nationalism.
That's the president of France and saying we're going to bring in 200 million people
from the Middle East and Africa in the next decade.
You're like, well, that's almost the population of Europe.
90% of them don't even ever get jobs.
It's total economic warfare.
Now, let me get back to the briefing here and then I'm going to come back and go through
all the documentation and all the evidence of it, but I'm giving you the boil down here.
Remember a year ago, a year ago, I said Antifa is getting the names of federal law enforcement,
especially ICE, and they're getting the names of conservative police and judges, and they
are going to kill you if they are allowed to.
And now Antifa has doxxed Chloe Given inside knowledge, and who is Antifa?
They're government employees, people like Reality Winner, they're tenured professors
that go out in disguises and do this.
And this has all just been preparation, and the real Antifa only puts their little method
decoys out while they watch the police and they watch the public.
And so remember a year ago, I told you that, and I told you they were preparing it, and
the New York Times said I was insane and there was no call by Antifa to overthrow the government,
even though they'd run a full page ad in the New York Times saying overthrow the president
physically.
And you go, yeah, that was weird.
Why did they do that?
And then why did they deny it at the same time?
Because you tell your people get ready for war, gear up, but then when the other side
starts getting ready, you go, oh, I'm not going to attack.
That is a classic tactic because it gets enough people on the other side not to get prepared,
not to get ready.
And I said they'd fail last year, and I said it was a beta test, but if they couldn't
remove him politically, that they would do it physically with Civil War.
And now that's the word, the compound word, Civil War.
You're hearing it everywhere.
Top professors have come out now and said, no, we're in a Civil War.
We're not in the early stages, and they're calling for more and more violence.
So what does the president need to do?
Well, the president's already doing what he has to.
He's getting the emergency preparations ready to stabilize the government during this.
The police and military are being prepared for it.
The problem is they have stacked the ranks of the FBI particularly and many city police
departments with actual communists.
I mean, Brennan voted on record.
There's like Washington Post articles for the Communist Party back in the 70s and was
admitted to the CIA because he was one.
He's also a hobbyist.
And that's the big piece of news here is this article from January 10th of this year is
the key to all of this.
We have their battle plan here, 25 pages of it from a brother of an Antifa individual
who was able to capture the documents and we confirm their authenticity.
The media never covered this.
They never challenged it.
And it is how they were working with major police departments in blue cities, but only
with the leadership to allow Antifa to attack police, to allow them to burn and agitate
to try to get urban black populations to burn down the cities, but they didn't do it everywhere
they tried.
You've been seeing Obama try this for a long time.
This was 2015 and it's all the admissions.
It's George Soros's group.
His son Alexander is the general.
He runs it.
He has the documents and it's how they stage this with the police.
It's the action BW-104-18-15.
Now you want to go read this, you need to go understand this and it's all the places
they targeted.
It's what they did.
This is criminal racketeering of the highest order.
This is espionage against the country.
It's trends of democracy.
So all of this has been a beta test, but now you see Netflix, every movie, every TV show
about violence and uprisings and the purge where the U.S. Army is the KKK and wears clan
outfits and comes and kills black people.
It's all to create a simulation of people's heads into the summer trying to get everybody
angry.
Trump did the right thing trying to defuse it, even though it looks like it gave him
what they wanted.
It defused it because he knew the children weren't being hurt.
He knew very few were being separated and so he's trying to defuse them.
He's doing the right moral thing, not luring them in to try this.
But he's telling Maxine and others, watch out what you do because I'm telling you.
Mr. President and everybody else, they are going to try to kill you and they're going
to be threatening your family and trying to turn them.
They are going to be threatening to kill your family.
They are going to target your family.
This is a globalist move.
They don't care if it looks bad.
They don't care how it looks.
They are not going to let your family live.
They are going to kill everybody in your family when they make their move.
And so they're going to go for broke.
It's going to be like a malice purge, the weathermen that advised Obama and it came
out of course in congressional hearings and Larry Graphwald and others exposed it, who
infiltrated them, how they would do all of this back in the 70s was their plan and how
they were going to kill 25 million people and put 25 million more in camps.
So bottom line, they are going to try to execute this.
They are going to try to execute this.
And the Justice Department has been captured.
Rosenstein's the globalist operative that's been proven for whatever reason, Sessions
is compromised or they would have already moved on Soros and his son when we got the
criminal proof of what they did.
Instead we've got the tech giants and everybody else trying to side with the globalist and
you've got all these cowards that think they can appease both sides.
So people are telling Trump what he wants to hear about fixing the country and turning
it around and not wrecking everything.
And other folks are then out of the other side of their mouth going along with the plotters.
But I know this.
Brennan and all these other people, Clapper, Hayden, Hillary, you guys only hope is to
not execute this because you'll never, never get away with it.
But that's why they go on TV and say he'll be dead soon, he'll be out soon.
This is triggering their people inside the deep state.
Hold on, we're going to win.
All they do is put on a confidence act.
They're losing.
The economy is coming back.
The sovereignty is coming back.
Full numbers for Trump with black Americans are doubling.
Thousands of factories are coming back in.
Hollywood's imploding.
Secret technologies for life extension are beginning to be released.
Medical breakthroughs.
We've got a guy in there really trying to fix things.
And why wouldn't there be some elements of the establishment that didn't want to have
a giant globalist orchestrated, mal-style communist operating system for megabanks
to totally shred the country and reeducate the U.S. as if you'll ever win when America
's whole ethos is about fighting empires and digging in.
Yeah, I mean, it's just, you will be destroyed.
I don't care if you guys think you're going to sit there in Hawaii or sit over there in
Tasmania or Switzerland and escape this.
I mean, you are playing a game of chicken and we're not going to turn off the road either.
So it's coming down to this toe-to-toe battle with the globalists and the final battle for
the republic.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a sunny-bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny-bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny-bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny-bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find sunny-bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for sunny-bay heating pads.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line, Super
Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect
for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only
available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters or even simple power outages, having a supply
of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWarsLife selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready
for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no
better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals, including meals such as
Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch
and dinner.
InfoWarsLife selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWarsLife selects storable foods.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lelani Estates, but a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Big ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are back and I was laying out the fact that we are in the middle of World War 4.
Powerful multinational corporations are held bent on bringing down nation states and capturing
the jewels of global control the West and then deploying that wealth, that technological
prowess into establishing the first true corporate planetary government.
And to do that, third world populations are being used as weapons to break down our borders.
They intend to then bring in a race-based, ethnic-based, culture-based civil war in the
Democrats' own words, and then they intend to target and physically attack Republicans,
Christians, conservatives, patriots, nationalists.
There was a big video from Steve McQueen's The Great Escape going around.
I'll show later.
On Twitter last night with Democrats' prominent Twitter accounts saying, I shot a whole video
on it saying, oh, you're lucky.
We just ran Sanders out of the restaurant and chased her down the street and chased her
into another store.
No, no, this is what's going to be happening to you.
And it shows Nazis at a French cafe in the greatest state being machine-gun.
MS Bellows Jr. was one of the ones tweeting it, said, I got asked to leave.
It's nothing.
Here's how the Trump administration officials will be treated at restaurants.
If we don't stop them now, they should thank us.
And that's what the antifa are the professors and the corporate people that are part of
the left.
And they are, I know the biggest gun shops in town, and they've asked me not to particularly
get into what place they are, but I can quote them.
They said, listen, our biggest business now is leftist, and they're in there training
how to use firearms saying they're getting ready for civil war.
This has been going on for a year, and it's not lost on them, though, that they want my
guns, but they can have guns.
See why I have my guns?
It's for deranged lunatics like you, and you've got Hashtag Hunt Republicans and the
year anniversary of Scalise Kitten Shot, and you've got crazy Maxine Waters putting the
talking point out like Donnie Deutsch and like Pito Fonda saying kidnap Baron, put him
in a cage, burn down the facilities.
You've got the doxing of the ICE agents by Antifa.
That's by federal stay-behind network agents.
I told you.
They've already got the Office of Personnel Management.
Obama gave that to the leftist.
They've got all your houses, where you live, where you're at.
They've got access to the databases to track you.
They're in the NSA database.
They have put hundreds of thousands of their own people, like Reality Winner, a member
of ISIS, a person that said all whites should be genocided, a crazy white woman, was let
in to run super high-level security clearances, some of the highest clearances you can get.
She was hired because she was a fruitcake lunatic, evil person, because she would start
a war with the American people and burn down prosperity and create racial division, because
she was a bad person.
Now, I'm going to go over all the background on this and show you the articles, the documents,
Rex 84, everything that ties together to this, and I didn't sit there and say those terrible
things are planned to do with the president, which they've said they'll do, just to hype
things up.
This is their move, and the globalists are planning a complete overthrow of America.
It's their only shot now, and the same thing in Europe, and hundreds of millions from the
third world.
This is happening.
The UN is announcing is taking control of the euro.
It's announcing is taking control of the military.
It's Reuters, the Nancy Pelosi and Loretta Lynch said they were going to bring in UN officials
to run local police departments, remember when Hillary got in office, but it didn't happen.
But they're still moving forward.
Now, I'm going to go over all of it, but now people are finally listening because top professors
are going, we're not going to see a civil war, we're in one.
So let's be honest, and then let's talk about later in the next hour, what do we do as solutions
to counter this?
Well, you understand that they're going to try to cause a civil unrest, race-based, Democrat
versus Republican civil war that will be used to make Trump stand down, and then the UN
will come in for reconciliation and will arbitrate and will oversee the refugee centers, which
are the port of entry for the takedown of the country.
This is global government.
This is capitulation of America.
This is war.
This is their stated plan.
Reuters today, okay, UN to present plan for Mediterranean migrant centers for the EU.
EU announces a EU army to not let nations leave and to make nations let the, quote,
migrants in.
It's all here, but you've got patriots getting elected everywhere, the tides turning against
them.
The blue states are all collapsing.
People are fleeing.
Merkel's in deep trouble.
They don't know what to do, so they're going to move their timetable up.
They're activating the colleges, they're activating the antifa, they're activating the violent
groups.
Antifa's saying they've got targets picked out in every city of who they're going to
kill.
They're just the cover for more serious hit teams.
And then during all the unrest, if they can get rid of Trump or remove him or kill him
or have a 25th amendment, which again, Clapper and Brenner are on TV saying, the cabinet must
remove him now.
We must take him out now.
If that doesn't happen by October, because they know they're about to lose in a red wave,
then they are going to try to kill the president.
And I'm telling you, they know they're going to lose.
They know everybody's turning against them.
They know that the poll numbers are even way better than what they're saying.
And they are in Hitler's bunker, basically, but we could let them manipulate us into going
along with their narrative and their hoax.
And so this country and the world, this is a global system we're fighting is on the razor's
edge right now.
Now, dovetailing into this is Roger Stone with exclusive information about the latest
dragnet of Mr. Mueller and Rosenstein committing violations of the government regulations that
are very, very serious that he's discovered and some other huge developments on the dragnet
targeting Joel Gilbert, myself, and other filmmakers.
So they're looking at a campaign finance now, but they put Dineshda Susan in prison for
nine months saying he did something wrong on campaign finance.
They've already tried to arrest Gilbert a few years ago saying that films he mailed
out to people during a campaign was campaign finance.
And you're like, well, that's crazy.
But if they've got a civil war and martial law and Trump goes down, that'll be their
excuse not to even kill us but to arrest us.
Then it'll all be nice and neat and tidy.
So they've got a couple tracks going here.
And so after Roger breaks this down, I'm going to ask him, what does the president do?
Because it's a clear and present danger.
They're doxing everybody.
They're saying civil war.
They're saying harass and intimidate people.
Folks are getting attacked everywhere.
And at a certain point, we can't just sit here.
It becomes a dereliction of duty.
We have to move against these people.
So Roger, thank you for joining us with the exclusive info.
We got two minutes to break.
Give us a synopsis and we'll come back and get it all out there.
Well, let's do it this way, Alex.
Yesterday, the former CIA official, Mr. Mudd, I think gave away the game when he said, we're
going to kill this guy, referring to Trump.
We, meaning the CIA, the intelligence community, have been around for since the 1900s.
And we're just going to kill this guy.
I take that very seriously.
I wrote a book on the Kennedy assassination.
I know the role of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pentagon and the FBI and the
Secret Service in that coup d'état.
So I think Mr. Mudd has given away the game.
That's exactly what they have in mind.
Now we're going to be called alarmists.
We're going to be called extremists.
We're going to be called conspiracy theorists because we point this out now.
So right here on Infowars, I predicted the 25th Amendment play by the establishment and
here we have it.
Once again, Infowars, tomorrow's news today.
And it gets more insane.
Mudd, I looked into his genealogy, it appears, is related to Dr. Mudd, the only other person
convicted of shooting Lincoln, of helping John Wilkes Booth.
And so here is another guy calling for another death of a Republican president by assassination
and it appears he's the same family from Virginia.
I couldn't trace it back because the records didn't go back, but it goes back to the same
town and he's definitely related, but I don't know if it's directly to them.
That's where his name is Mudd, comes from the traitor Mudd.
Can you believe that, Roger?
It's amazing, Alex, and not a coincidence.
Absolutely.
I mean, this family has Republican bloodlust.
They hate America, folks, and it's unbelievable.
And here's the deal.
I am honored to stand with Roger and the president and you.
We're not bully.
We're not backing down.
It's a game of chicken.
And I am just pressing the accelerator down and I'm going right down the center lane and
let's go.
We're going to do it.
Let's do it.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Learn Flora Life Everyday Maintenance and Carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and Carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new Platinum
Standard of Advanced Multivitamin Formulation.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
During a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with
Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated,
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the U.S.A. Get your AlphaPower today at InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, you just heard Roger Stone, who has predicted everything that they would try to do to Trump,
including the 25th Amendment move.
He said that a year ago here.
The whole Alzheimer's thing, all of it.
And they are now openly saying we're going to have civil war, we're going to harass Republicans
and their families, we're going to harass any Trump voters, we're going to physically
hurt them.
Antifa is doxing federal law enforcement home addresses.
They're saying target their families, that Hollywood stars, Hollywood turds are out there
saying burn down their houses, attack them, kidnap their children.
Donnie Deutch is saying they're all Nazis.
The Democrats are circulating video online of the great escape with Steve McQueen with
their machine-gunning Nazis at a cafe and saying, this is what we're going to do to
you in the cafes now.
It's just unbelievable.
And then I saw the comments last night when I showed that they were tweeting that and
people were like, yeah, we're going to kill you.
Well, here's the deal.
It's like James Woods said.
He's going to get armed, who isn't already armed, gets more training, watch our six.
And if anything happens like this, we're going to fight back.
So I appreciate Democrats being honest about what your intentions are.
So if I have to defend myself, it's very, very clear who was the aggressor.
So I mean, I understand that the Democratic situation tends to be followers or mentally
ill or have a lot of problems or be on the government mammary gland.
But I don't think they understand like threatening us isn't making us go away.
It was kind of like Hitler bombing London.
He thought it would make them give up and it made them go from being against the war
for the war.
Roger, you've got a lot of big breaking news here, but I need people to understand that
you just concurred with me and sometimes you disagree, but you just agreed that they are
going to go to the mattresses.
They know they're losing.
You're saying you agree with my analysis.
You can see the preparation everywhere.
I mean, they say they're planning this and I just don't know how the president doesn't
move on them.
And I think that I think that he should probably fire the attorney general.
He should fire them all.
He should put new people in.
He should declare a civil emergency.
Definitely the country's in one.
George Washington did that during his first term and point out who the traders are because
these, these aren't organic Americans that are doing this.
These are people trying to overthrow the country quarterback by the UN, trying to break our
borders, trying to capture the country.
This is our nation under attack.
And I think the president has been very judicious and very restrained so far and he's been turning
the economy around trying to get people to wake up and just be decent, but they've proven
how evil they are and they're just howling for his blood, my blood, your blood.
And so this, we now move into survival mode against these people.
Well, and their hysteria is only increased by a growing economy and by the disappearance
of the polling edge that they seem to have in the upcoming elections.
There will be no blue title wave.
There may be a red title wave.
Every day that goes by, the economy improves.
They know that the president's personal and corporate income tax rates have not yet even
had a chance to have their full positive effects.
So things are only going to get bigger, better.
And I think that strengthens the president's hand.
And that's why the Democrats now admit they want to bankrupt the economy to stop us.
I mean, they are the enemy.
There's a piece up on Bloomberg today that says Robert Mueller is now going to focus on
Russian collusion.
Wait a minute.
I thought that's what he was focusing on from the beginning.
This nothing burger story ties to every non-crime, every allegation, every false or muted fact
about the fact that there is no Russian collusion.
It mentions the contact through Michael Caputo to me by Henry Greenberg, but it never mentions
that Mr. Greenberg is an indisputable FBI informant.
Really Chris Strom and Shannon Pettypiece need to be ashamed of themselves.
This is not journalism.
This is an attempt to fraud.
It really is.
It is fraudulent.
In my own case, as you know, Reuters, AP, others have reported that the FBI has interrogated
and in some cases subpoenaed, in other cases are attempting subpoena, a number of my current
and former associates and employees.
Now I know how this works.
I've seen enough mob movies.
You find the underlings, you find something they've done wrong.
Let's say they didn't pay their federal income taxes.
Now you give them a walk on that charge in return for testifying against the big fish
that would be made.
So we don't know what will happen, but we do know that the lead prosecutor investigating
Roger Stone comes from the Baltimore U.S. Attorney's Office of Rod Rosenstein.
That's interesting because Mr. Rosenstein, by regulation, is not supposed to be involved
in the operations or staffing of the special counsel's office.
So how this lawyer got his job, we don't know.
But we do know that they will find no evidence of rushing collusion and Roger Stone, no evidence
of WikiLeaks, hijinks, and Roger Stone, no evidence that I had for knowledge of John
Podesta's email.
I want to go back to this because I was just reading the Bloomberg article they put out
it, and they think we have no memory.
It's like we're goldfish.
It says Mueller now for the first time focusing on Russia, and he's accelerating things.
Yeah, because he knows they're about to lose the midterms.
They thought they'd win the midterms, then have their impeachment, but instead they're
going to totally politically, right before, I'd say, September, October, start releasing
all the latest hoaxes, like Tom Arnold saying that Trump's lawyer told him he had all the
dirt, which he admits was a total hoax.
So I expect a bunch of those hoaxes going at the same time with them trying to start
a race war at the end of the summer as some way to drive the president out and get his
cabinet to go 25th Amendment.
But if that doesn't work, you agree they are planning to kill him.
Well, and they're now examining the independent political operations of my independent efforts
to elect Donald Trump, specifically the Committee for American Sovereignty, which produced the
documentary Banished the Danny Williams story, seen by 35 million Americans, which by the
way debuted right here on Info Wars, also produced the Danny Williams rap video by the
Trinauts, seen by 28 million people.
And you played it and aired it and promoted ads in black urban areas, and many experts
credited for Trump winning 100% legal.
But Joel Gilbert is now under the microscope, the the incredible director of these videos.
This is this is legal harassment by a vengeful federal prosecutor with a partisan objective.
I'm being targeted because I'm a friend of Donald Trump.
I am being targeted because I have been effective in the election of Donald Trump.
Is this Hillary's payback?
I suspect it is.
And Alex, I don't need to tell you the cost is enormous.
I want to thank the thousands of people who have sent contributions to my legal defense
fund.
Absolutely.
Don't defend.com.
I'm going to be bankrupt by this process, but I will not throw in the towel and I will
not quit and I will not roll over and I will not testify against the president.
And there's nothing to testify about, as you've said.
Well, but see, they try to induce you to compose testimony.
It's an age old trick.
Well, sure.
But last time you run, you pointed out you've done nothing wrong and so you never testify
against him.
And then they said, stone admits he did something wrong, but he won't flip on the president.
They are such incredible liars.
And speaking of that, I didn't even plug one time yesterday because I'm so upset about
what's happening and all the calls for violence and the fact that we know they're going to
make their civil unrest, martial law move.
And it's just a terrible situation, but I didn't even plug yesterday one time.
We have super blue fluoride free toothpaste fortified with colloidal silver and iodine.
It's amazing.
50% off the adults, the children's, the super blue of a immune gargle and three different
sizes.
The mouthwash.
It's an amazing product, folks, but it does for the gums, the teeth, everything in full
wars life.com.
You can buy it all individually or you can get it in combo packs.
Everything is 50% off in the super blue family.
We have 33% off our amazing knockout, sleep aid, natural formula, 25% off the water filtration
and air filtration, which are already the best deals out there.
We cannot go any lower than that read the thousands and thousands of five star reviews.
It takes a lot of money to fund this operation in full wars life.com in full war store.com
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And yes, when you go to the site, we'll have a link to donate to us.
Those donations really, really help.
I want to thank you all for those and they know we're beginning to win.
That's why they're so scared, Roger.
People can buy your latest bookstones rules at info or store.com as well.
But more importantly, tell folks the best website where they can go and make a donation.
So you can stay in the fight.
It is stone defense fund.com, stone defense fund.com.
You can send a contribution there.
Look, the survival of input wars is crucial for my own survival because they're the only
ones who are going to tell you the truth.
If the government decides to move again, stay right there.
Let's do five more minutes.
We have a special guest in the studio, the amazing Lucas, think about this folks.
You always get the news a year before here.
They know that the enemy knows that.
And we're going to talk about what should Trump do next to counter this?
What should we all do to stop their civil war plan?
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Support us at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139 or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Support us at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139 or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Make it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us.
It is a choice.
Just like what I said, slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing as expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying, I hate you, I hate you, you f**k you, you f**k you, how are we going
to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love?
Why don't we just try love?
We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy mother f**kers to change something.
Steve Jobs is crazy, now we all know Steve Jobs phones.
They say Trump's crazy, they say I'm crazy,
but I'm here to show love.
It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe
told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.
It's Alex Jones.
And now the left's favorite director,
Mr. Lynch has come out and supported Trump.
Every other left icon, Morris C,
the list goes on and on, anybody that is really
about prosperity in the future knows that Trump's a good guy.
But the globalist, Brennan, others who special,
these overthrowing countries, admit they're trying
to overthrow the president and the electoral process.
And so it's all public now.
And we kept warning of this and warning now they're public.
Roger, what does the president need to do?
I mean, if we don't talk about how we respond to this,
we don't want to get tricked into doing something too much,
but at a certain point that becomes a mind game
of its own, because when they're already going hot on you,
I think the big thing is people need to know how serious
this is so they don't get the jump on us,
and that they are planning at the end of the summer,
end of the fall to basically trigger civil unrest
and the assassination of the president
and a total political shutdown.
They're also pre-programming, I've noticed,
in Bloomberg and McClatchy and everywhere now,
that the Russians are claiming that people want
to overthrow Trump and that the Russians are claiming
that the little girl really wasn't hurt.
And the Russians are claiming that the left
wants to sow civil war,
when the Russians have nothing to do with it,
they're the ones doing it,
so that when we're saying, hey, this is bad, don't do it,
they're gonna say that's Russia propaganda too.
I mean, hell, if I didn't cook my kid's eggs
right this morning, it was the Russians' fault.
So in the three minutes we have left,
what does Trump need to do?
Well, the single most important thing he could do today,
right now in the next hour,
is to terminate the employment of Rod Rosenstein.
Mr. Rosenstein certainly has grounds for termination.
He has not turned over to the Congress
what the Congress asked for.
He has turned over substantially less
than what the Congress asked for.
He is the one who signed the surveillance authorization
under a FISA warrant based on fraudulent information.
Those two acts of treachery alone
should merit his termination.
We won the election, but the deep state
continues to control the Justice Department.
The president cannot possibly combat
the coming counter-revolution,
the coming revolt to overturn the country in a coup
without a Justice Department committed to the rule of law
and the prosecution of those who plan
to execute the violence.
And Roger, you were completely right.
That's why Mueller admits he's accelerating
his fake Russia probe is because he understands
the wheels are coming off.
Rosenstein is absconding with evidence.
He's violating federal rules.
He's got his own picked lawyer
after you that violates federal rules.
He's got to go or Trump is in dereliction of duty.
Trump is totally completely innocent of all this.
It's been proven.
Rosenstein is a criminal coup plotter
with Hillary, with McCabe, with Strock,
with all of these people.
And Trump must move against the clear and present danger
before they crash the economy, assassinate him,
and start a race war.
So it's got to be done.
Rosenstein's got to go.
And I think the attorney general does as well.
Got to fire both of them.
Amen, from your mouth to God's ear.
It's got to be done.
He can't wait till Mueller comes up
with all his fake garbage down the road
and then just lets them continue to engage
in criminal activity.
At the proof, from the beginning, it was a frame up.
That means investigations are over.
I cannot believe that Mueller has not had
his arrogant ass thrown in prison yet.
You know, it's amazing.
I did an interview with the Hill, Alex, last week.
And although I never used the word indict in my interview,
their headline, Roger Stone expects to be indicted.
Not what I said.
Roger Stone expects to be framed.
That's a real possibility.
I bless you.
We'll be back.
Infowarslife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited
to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3
nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil
from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price,
this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit
of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today
or call 888-253-3139.
Good evening, everybody.
Here's not even the same universe.
I mean, he is an abject psychopathic,
demon from hell.
People around him are saying she's so dark now
and so evil and so possessed
that they are having nightmares.
They're freaking out.
Hopefully, they say, listen,
Obama and Hillary both smell like sulfur.
Oh!
Whiskey bottles and brand-new cars.
Oh, you're in my way.
There's too much coke and too much smoke.
Look what's going on inside you.
That's different.
At this point, y'all just wait.
Ooh, that smell.
I have two words for you.
Can't you smell that smell?
That's a good quote.
Ooh, that smell.
The smell of gas around you.
Hey, you saw?
Died.
There's a guy on the radio.
He said he and Hillary are demons.
Said we smell like sulfur.
Hey, man, son.
I thought just the entire key.
A Tony Margaret named Samoa.
I had never seen or smelled anyone like her.
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
Defending the Republic from enemies born and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
Can't you smell that smell?
So, man, there it is.
There's a lot of flies in here, and the center is going to do
something about these flies.
We're going to kill them.
I'm picking up a bad oar.
That's the thing I can't hold.
I think it's all in the jeweler's car.
Onscreen.
But here's the good news, chumps.
You think you're gonna assassinate Trump?
I can't believe a bunch of us are going along with you.
How do I preserve top?
It's not for me.
I'm willing to fight to one point at this point.
And only the dumbest morons buying to your SJW Globalist, George Soros, dropping.
Stabilize it.
Emergency reserve.
Hillary Clinton and the New World Order and Michael Moore.
Go back to babies where you came from.
We're awake and you're not putting us back in the coma.
You got that, Jack?
You're done.
It's over.
You don't want it.
Get him back.
Get him back.
Do you think there was more than one?
For sure.
I'm picking cheater.
It sounds like it's confirmed there are at least two shooters with fully automatic weapons.
Clear.
Or what do you think?
All right.
He is riding shotgun with us for the rest of the broadcast.
He's the amazing Lucas.
Everyone of his videos is really good.
Really informative.
And he's a champion bodybuilder and a whole bunch of other stuff.
And he's the amazing Lucas on Instagram.
I'm the amazing Lucas.
You too, the amazing Lucas.
And he just got involved in the last year or so because of all the stuff that he has seen.
So it's great to have you here with us.
Thank you for having me.
Man, I tell you, what would you call the state of the nation right now?
What would you call that?
A hysterical.
And it's manufactured hysteria.
That's exactly what it is.
Because everything from Maxine Waters, like that's real.
When it comes to the mom.
And the thing is, many people were focusing on what she was saying.
But if you really go back in time, they've always been saying some off the wall things.
The only difference is now people are cheering.
And once you have Tommy Loring and water thrown in her face, it's only a matter of time that water becomes acid.
Well said.
I mean, I've experienced hot coffee dumped on my face.
I've experienced people knocking my food over at the restaurant.
And they call you a Russian agent or a Nazi.
It's like calling me a space alien.
So a lot of times I laugh at them and they get mad.
But a lot of people, it's not funny to them, but they'll do it in front of your kids too.
Yeah, because that's what they actually believe.
They've been brainwashed into believing that you're Nazis.
So if you actually believe that someone is a Nazi, well, I'd be right there with them.
I'd be like, yeah, we need to get these Nazis out of here.
These bigots, these homophobes, these xenophobes, all these words to censor people.
And it's a process of dehumanization.
You know, it's funny you bring that up.
Guys, can you pull up the Great Escape clip?
And then also he removed it off his Twitter.
But it had been retweeted thousands of times.
The Democrats were sharing this last night.
But first, we can't want to actually show the tweet.
We saved it.
The Democrats were tweeting this all over the place.
And I learned about it from some of the crew here who had it tweeted at them.
They had it tweeted at them.
And this is MS Bellows Jr.
I got asked to leave is nothing.
Here's how Trump administration officials will be treated at restaurants if we don't stop them now.
And it's Steve McQueen, who by the way was good buddies with Chuck Norris and would be a patriot today if he was alive.
A lot of people that knew him, he was like Americana, you know, red, white and blue, would love Trump.
And of course, we're the Americans that beat the Nazis, remember?
But in the new leftist program when they're funded by George Soros, a literal former Nazi collaborator in his own words on 60 Minutes,
they have this guy tweeting this out, other people tweeting it, thousands of tweets celebrating that, yeah, we're going to start killing you.
And now they're doxing the Border Patrol agents.
Now they're putting dead animals on their doorsteps.
Now they're chasing people around out of movie theaters.
And it's happened to me.
And again, these mobs telling Milo that he's a Nazi when he's Jewish.
It's crazy.
So here's the clip from the Great Escape that they're passing around the Internet saying this is what needs to happen to Republicans when they're in restaurants.
Here it is.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Our couple's up the outside canof함.
And they kill the Nazis.
And they talk about, oh are we in the French Resistance?
Oh, yeah, we are.
a drink together. So the other left, it's anti-gun, doesn't even know which end of
it shoots, fantasizing about all this and saying kill the president's family,
kidnap his son. The amazing Lucas, again, is here with us in studio. When do they
stop her? How far does this go? They won't stop. They absolutely won't stop
because what they won't allow to happen is a repeat of what happened in 2016. And
I don't think a lot of people understand that. What we're seeing is just, it's the
tipping point. And while they're figuring out and re-strategizing right now, this
is the time that we need to consolidate and plan for 2019, 2020, because what
they're planning for is 2030, 2044. So we have to, we have to join our forces
together and really figure it out because... And we've got to reach out across
racial and cultural lines because they are sowing classical race-based
garbage and then to play a demographic number to steal the American dream. It's
so cold-blooded. It absolutely is. The thing is they, what the left touches, they
destroy. And for people who don't believe that, you can look at the black
community, everything from separating fathers with the welfare, to put in
Planned Parenthoods in the communities, to presently right now saying voter
IDs, it's racist, it's racist. It's like we all know that's not the case. You want
the votes from the Legals. But what the frightening part is, what should be alarming
to people right now, is that they have their eyes on America. That should
be the frightening part because guess what? That affects you, that affects me,
that affects everyone. And that's why you need to pick up and fight. And I'm not
saying it incites violence, but you need to fight. And you know, no pun intended,
but it is an information war. When I look at how they are just cold-bloodedly
pushing lies and they get worse and worse and worse, I don't see how they
succeed. But at the same time, I see a lot of Republicans becoming intimidated by
it. I don't think, I mean, if they don't start standing up to this, these people
could win. Absolutely. I told you sometimes, I mean, if you don't stand up,
they will consume you. If you cower, they will consume you. Amazing Lucas, we're
gonna cover the waterfront. We come back, a bunch of breaking news, Trump's
statement on the Supreme Court ruling in his favor, all of it. But it's really
true. If you look at every blue state, every blue city, everyone is in
Exodus. The elites that are in charge always are tax-exempted, don't even really
live there. And it's true. I mean, what you said is everything they touch turns
to crap. Why in the world will we want these people running things? The
Amazing Lucas, at I am the Amazing Lucas on Twitter, be sure and follow him. We
are going to be breaking it all down, taking your phone calls and a lot more.
Stay with us.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the US.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month, you could fight against heart
disease naturally at Heart and Body Extract. We've been helping thousands of
people get back to a healthier heart. Don't just take my word for it. Check out
all of the success stories at hbextract.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305. Hbextract.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable
insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions,
navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge. Control your own
healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is
not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded
people to share the cost of each other's medical needs. Neighbor helping
neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You
need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And
does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original, most trusted name in
gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off
ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or
BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature. Expand your
horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling
bows on the market at slingbow.com. Slingbow products are compact and models
start from just 1798. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your
vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of
slingbow. A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool. Feel the thrill, only at slingbow.com.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for
holding. Hey, I've been following you since I was 14. I'm 32 now. I remember
back when Info Wars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white
screen and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it
was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all
your guests and I've been using your products since the first iteration of
survival shield and since then I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality Decay Man,
the Real Red Pill, micro ZX body. It's all amazing. Thank you brother. Yeah and I wanted to
say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're
detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know
God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side-by-side with you, the crew and the listeners out there
1770s, this worldwide.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic
fiber by Info Wars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of
clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber. Prebiotic fiber is
soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps
you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system. Info Wars
Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the
beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested
by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Trashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
Alright, the amazing Lucas is in studio with us. I tend to open the phones up
coming up later in the next hour and I should have told you this. I should have
told you this. Mike Cernovich is coming on and Mike Cernovich, if you notice, they've
really been demonizing and attacking. The left is really afraid of Mike and
that's because the left likes him. He's a likable guy. I wouldn't even call him a
conservative. He's more of a libertarian and now Bill Maher bizarrely had a meltdown
saying I'm a liar about him saying he wants the economy to crash even though
he's shed it and I'm a liar that he's made a hundred million dollars on his
contract when that's on record. I mean that's on record from HBO and he goes
further and he says, so this is coming up next segment, that he hopes that Mike
Cernovich dies and then he says, oh, I really just want to cook your head in an
oven for children to eat and it's not even funny and then he goes, no, actually I
want you to get help. So Maher is having, what do you think that is? We're gonna play
the clip coming up. I don't know. I guess this is Trump derangement syndrome
because I heard him say when he was talking about, you know, it's time for
the economy to crash if it means getting the president out. I was like, that's
that's insanity. That's to have millions of people to be out of work. That
impacts everyone and that shows the vitro that they have for this president.
Has nothing to do with his policies. Has nothing to do with his administration.
It is personal. I don't think I don't think we've ever seen anything like this
before. It's unprecedented. And that's what Mike Cernovich said. He said he had a
link to Reuters pointing out that you basically have a doubling of suicides
during just a recession. And he made a joke about that. I mean, this is sickness.
Yeah, I mean, it's absolutely is. But the thing is what they do, because I saw how
you responded, but he responded, you know, tongue in cheek. You know, that's
that's the way they do it. They encapsulate it in like this little
comical humorous, you know, ha ha ha ha ha. While in the meantime, they mean
exactly, they mean everything that they say. Well, that's the thing is that they
take this little girl who was never separated from mother, put her on the
cover of Time magazine. She's at a family center, totally safe. The mother has
smuggled people here before. She's been deported in 2013. And then they get caught
lying. Tom Arnold lies and says that, oh, Cohen's going public against the president.
None of that was true. I mean, now they're just reduced to hoaxing. They have no
credibility left. And then they say, we're these heartless, horrible people, but
they want to abort as many kids as they can the amazing Lucas. And on top of it,
they don't care if we have 10,000 extra suicides during a recession.
Absolutely. And then not only that, that lady, she left three other kids there. So
I'm like, you left three other kids there along with your husband to what? To come
here illegally? And then be surprised when we enforce our laws? That's what
blows my mind. I've never heard of such a thing. I'm like, if you do, if you
commit a crime here, guess what? You suffer the punishment. But I guess I guess not,
you know, in New York, we have the Blasio, who's lessen the penalty for drunk
driving and in grand larceny for illegals. Who else has they done that for?
Well, that's the thing is they're setting it up to incentivize people coming to
Europe, coming here. They give them everything free and then say, you
actually are above the law to incentivize. Exactly. And it's like you're sending
two different message where Trump is trying to enforce our laws that we
already have to the fullest extent and treat us equal. Exactly. So but at the
same time, how are you gonna say don't come here? But if you come here, it's okay
because we have sanctuary states that blows my mind. That's like selling
someone. Hey, I'm an officer. If you run that red light, that's legal. But if you
do it, I'm not gonna give you a ticket. What? Well, let me tell you, if my wife
tried to smuggle our four-year-old daughter over a hundred miles of deadly
desert, probably most dangerous area in the world, I mean, she would deserve to
be arrested. I would deserve. How is this mother not having any responsibility for
what she did? And then Trump is this bully hurting her. It's just it's crazy
because the logic is so simple that it's a fraud. Completely. You would think that
they would be looking at her like that's child endangerment. That's what you just
did. That you're unfit to be a parent right now. But they completely reverse it.
Instead of looking at the criminal, they look at the law. Well, the law needs to be
abolished. The same thing they did with the Electoral College. When the Electoral
College said we're giving it to Trump. Well, it's not that they voted. It's, you
know what? We need to remove the Electoral College. And it's, I think
people are waking up because due to just this incessant attack, attack, attack.
It's just a myriad of attacks. Let me ask you this question. Because you're a smart
guy. I had a gut level. So I've watched a lot of your videos and my son likes them
as well. You get a lot of nuances at a gut level. How do you see this ending?
Because I know they're crazy. They're out of control. People are waking up, but
that makes them only more desperate. And they're just they're like crazy zombies
or something. Maxine Waters, Mueller, all these Hillary looks like a jack-o'-lantern
demon. It lies constantly and they never go away. Pelosi can't even hardly talk,
but they're in charge and they're telling us we're going to remove the president
extra judicially. I mean, they're on TV saying we're going to kill him. Phil
Mudd used to run assassination squads overseas. He never did the killing
himself, but that's what he did was, was, was run assassinations. Counterterrorism.
So a guy whose job it is to assassinate people who runs operations to do that, he's
saying we're going to kill the president. And at a certain point, I think Trump's
got a problem if he doesn't go in there and do something to Mudd. And I know
they're coming after me because I've been saying something needs to be done, but
I'm sorry, man. People start saying we're coming to kill you in Texas. Folks that
I grew up around said, well, we're coming for you. Wow. Does that make sense? It
absolutely makes sense. They're coming for everyone, even remotely who, who don't
even have an opinion on the issue. It's like, well, if you don't have an opinion,
that's has an approval of Trump. We can't allow that. And there comes a point in
time where it's no longer, well, okay, I'm just gonna, you know, comes a point in
time where someone's attacking you. You need to defend yourself. I agree. What
should happen to a pedo? I mean, Peter Fonda, who said kidnap Trump, sign, throw
him in a thing with pedophiles. The same thing that happened to anyone else who
would say like, say something like that. Imagine if any conservative said something
even remotely like that about Obama's daughter. Imagine they would get arrested
for sure. Imagine they may even get killed because of the mom and talent they
had. Well, who brings people's kids into it? And I get his point. Well, he looks
like a pervert. I'm not saying Peter Fonda is a child molester. But man, if I
was going to cast a child molester for a movie that kidnaps and kills kid, it'd
be Peter Fonda. I mean, put that picture back up. Man, is he one ugly looking
day shoe and just like, God, you got the road. Look at that. Man, imagine me a
little kid and that guy walks in the room. Think of nightmares are made of man.
That guy is a sick freak. Reportedly, people that know that Hollywood say he is
a like we're talking even stupider than Maxine Waters. They say he is so dumb.
Wow. Oh yeah. I didn't think that was possible. Maxine, you know, she's now
saying that no one's criticizing her. She says, my own party's not criticizing me
even though we have on video Schumer. Yeah, Schumer just came out to not only
that, but also Pelosi. But what she said is when they confront her is the president
is lying. I never said that. I'm like, we have it on tape. Like, what are you
talking about? What are you? How are you going to just boldface lie to my face,
going to spit in my face and then tell me it's raining? Well, I just think it's
sick that Peter Fonda is dreaming about little kids getting raped by pedophiles.
I mean, I'm not saying he's a pedophile. I'm just saying that, you know, that he
and Hayden could start a new movie about two pedophiles that go on a cross
country trip together. I'm serious. These people are sick. We'll be right back with
amazing Lucas and Mike Cernovich straight ahead. M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the
U. S. What if I told you for just $54.95 a month, you could fight against heart
disease naturally at heart and body extract. We've been helping thousands of
people get back to a healthier heart. Don't just take my word for it. Check out
all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305. HBXTrack.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the
lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products. That's why we're
bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the
Real Red Pill Plus. Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse
pregnant on product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart,
brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful pregnant on base, the Real Red Pill, will become one of our fellow
InfoWars favorite products. Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside,
including green tea extract, your remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that
extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. It's got
all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost at it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread
the videos, you are changing the world? It's you that has defeated Hillary and the
globalist. It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the
bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world. And that's why you've been on the team supporting
us, praying for us, and spreading the word. You are the InfoWard. And now because
of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so
there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles,
breaking news, intel, you name it. And so now I ask you more than ever to share
the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local
stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the
free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the renaissance
and we are winning. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of
prepping. Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial. With InfoWars life select
storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any
emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a
full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible
meals. Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup, and a
variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. InfoWars life select
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even
work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to
cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip. Don't be caught
surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food
you need for an affordable price with InfoWars life select storable foods.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Well, we've got Mike Cernovich via the Skype and we've got the amazing
Lucas & Studio with us, but I wanted to just play a short clip of Bill Maher and
I'll play the longer clip because it appears he's having some type of weird
mental breakdown because everything he says in these in these little periods
with little scripted images beside him are a teleprompter. No folks have been
there at the production. So what he does is monologue it's a teleprompter and so
the stuff they wrote doesn't make any sense. A stick Mike Cernovich has had
none of them have children eat his dead head. He hopes Mike Cernovich commit
suicide and I think it's because he's so destroyed by Mike Cernovich pointing out
that suicides you have 10,000 extra suicides for every recession that they
basically double and that he was calling for an economic crash and that I pointed
this out that he's makes 10 million dollars a year on his contract. He's had
10 seasons they say he's been paid a hundred million of a variety reports that
he says I'm a liar. So why are they every week now singling myself and Mike
Cernovich out on these TV programs? What is it that triggers them about Mike
Cernovich and Alex Jones? But I got to say I'm getting a little jealous when
they're saying they want to kill you. Now that happens sometimes but I haven't had
that yet from from old old Bill Maher. He looks like he is about to kill
himself when he talks about me. So this is very interesting psychology and Mike
Cernovich gets into the psychology from a kind of archetypal union way. I think
that's what scares him. So let's play the clip get Mike Cernovich's take here it is.
Mike Cernovich said suicides increased during recessions. Bill Maher wants people
to die. Yes specifically Mike Cernovich.
I guess it's about laughing about people die. I want him to put his head in the
oven so starving kids confuse it for food. Why? No I don't why. I don't know who
the f*** are Mike Cernovich but I want you to live a long healthy life and get
the help you so desperately need. So he talks about convoluted craziness and
before that he says I'm lying about him being rich and a
depression not hurting him which is total truth. So amazing looks before we go to
Mike Cernovich what do you make of that it just doesn't even make sense. That's
the first time me hearing him saying put the head in the oven I was just but it's
once again it's a crowd going laughing it up. I think that's the goal get him to
laugh about killing us. It's just an incitement to kill us. That's what Cernovich said a
year ago I said why are they doing this he goes they just want to start
killing us they're gearing up for killing us. It's this process of dehumanization
saying you know what they're saying is absolutely it's all conspiracy theories
and everything so that way people don't go in and search what you're actually
saying it's true. Absolutely well Mike what do you make of this latest meltdown
I mean it just adds the whole harass conservatives harass Trump people kill
Trump dump hot coffee on Alex Jones Sue Alex Jones bank rep libertarian media
docks the ICE agents I mean they're gearing up it appears at the end of
summer here to really try to launch a violent overthrow. Yeah I mean there's a
number of things one is that Bill Meyer was triggered by the truth because we
now troll with the truth. The number one thing that I've learned over the years
is that the left the way to really trigger the left is with facts and logic
and reason and they didn't have any he didn't have any issue to what I said
because if you do want a recession you are saying you want people to kill
themselves and then of course you know when Anthony Bourdain Bourdain kill
themselves all of the worst people in the world are like oh we're so sad call
the hotline love oh my god your life matters and then like the next day they're
like yeah kill conservatives hunt them down rape their children throw them in
cages have pedophiles rape children in front of their moms yeah that's what
we're gonna do so we're exposing their hypocrisy and they don't have an
answer for it. And they seem to be going crazier by the minute I asked you this
question about two years ago I said you're during the campaign what is peak
insane libtard behavior but now they're not so much libtards they're like like
crazy Tasmanian devils that lie and attack logic and are just I mean they
are really it seems degenerating. Well they know that they're not going to
win in November that's what is amusing me is they're not playing like winners
if so people have noticed that I used to be a very I don't know I used to be a
little bit of a wild man and I've calmed down and they go oh is having a
daughter calm you down and the answer is no we were winning you know we are the
voice of reason now and the left they keep claiming they're going to November
but they have no solutions they have no answer so here's what the left stands
for this is now truth by the way this is all confirmed the left now stands for a
branding women as the nexium sex cult did and if you look into the donors and
the connections to some of the Clinton Foundation donors you're gonna find
connections there Eric Schneider men or whatever the former attorney general to
New York endorses calling brown women his slaves remember he made one girlfriend
where a slave caller so they endorse branding women they endorse slavery and
they endorse kidnapping and raping children in front of their mothers that
is the platform of the modern left and quite frankly that is terrifying and
you're not just saying that because I remember growing up and I mean nobody
was racist in my family that's what shameful losers were into that finally
get around Democrats and I travel around the country and I'm not saying the east
is bad but I hear people say racist stuff and I was like what I was like are
you trying to see if I'm racist because I don't agree with this and it was it
was Democrats and I'm and I'm I could tell all the stories it would take all
day but that's when I began to discover that Democrats at the top and at the
middle level are just sick criminals I mean I'm sorry it's just true yeah and
you're absolutely right and they're the main ones who are racist but what they've
done is they've managed to now go so far as to change our history books so now
children are growing up learning what they want them to believe and I'm like
that's that's that's demonic it's Machiavellian and you know what they
have this whole idea of the party switch the party switch I'm like there is
that's the most historical just just absolute drivel it's a prattle but they
keep repeating it and says gaslighting of repetition once you repeat something
everyone around you is repeating it well now slowly becomes truth and the
people who are actually telling the truth well now they're seeing as the
crazies I agree Mike speaking of racist Democrats there's a video terrible video
shows a a white woman purportedly harassing a Mexican-American citizen
and everything and I'm just wondering why that woman nobody seems to know who
she is they keep calling her an unidentified woman which I find
interesting because the media is always able to find you know anonymous
gift-makers anonymous people they have no problem with that but when they're
saying is the left is famous for staging false flags the police say
something like 98% of poop swastikas and you know stuff that the Air Force
Academy it's the left doing it to themselves is what you're saying well
I'm saying I'm just wondering why we don't know who the woman's name yet I
grew up in a small town the running Springs California the town where the
video was filmed 5,000 people in a town of 5,000 people if someone in that town
makes national news international news talk of the town right they're gonna be
in the paper that day yeah so I've been on every public Facebook group for
running Springs California nobody's saying oh my god I can't believe this
woman in Paris says nobody's identified her in this very very small town yeah we
haven't played that video yet I saw that we should queue that up and if you go
to CNN's website it's all like watch this man tell Mexicans to get out of the
restaurant and you watch it and it's bad acting who actually walks in and goes
Mexicans get out of here I mean it's so fake it is but the thing is desperate
times call for desperate measures and as we get closer and closer it's just
gonna get more desperate and desperate I agree yeah I've got a thousand questions
for both of you but Mike Sermos we come back what else is on your radar screen
you want to head well I think that video is very important for maybe all of us to
watch and discuss because it raises a lot of issues all I know is remember the
attacks on the synagogues the attacks on the Jewish cemeteries and then Trump
said I think that might be staged they go oh my god they're anti-Semitic and it
turned out it was a leftist Jewish guy did it I mean I'm just I'm sorry I've
dealt with this myself folks that's all these people do is lie choose to take
control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true
selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100%
organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential
mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential
mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you
may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super
combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at
infowarslife.com living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
the real drama can be found here in Leilani estates but a lot of us on the
big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid
rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower
the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of
tests for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in
fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we
tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the
heavy metal levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored to optimal
levels as it turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a
rainwater supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will
purify it feeling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info
wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine fluorolife
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and
take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to
power your body fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the
most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our
incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day
these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight
against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try fluorolife
and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today you know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60
plus products we have an info wars life it take hours Michael's DX plus and now
it's a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks
out the yeast the mold the Candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's
been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the
natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with
the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue
silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a
supplement with iodine super high-quality silver and a lot more without
you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and
remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that
aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much
for being part of the second American Revolution
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
we now take you live to the retaking of America from the globalist but they're
striking back we now take you live to the central Texas Command Center in the
heart of the resistance you're listening to Alex Jones I don't want to give these
people attention but at this point we've got to cover it I'm used to death
threats but these are very specific now they're targeting libertarians
patriots Christians families I was talking to Mike he was showing me some
stuff I'm not going to give attention to but he was showing me stuff off record
what they're doing to him and his family and it's massive it's coordinated it's
doxing and it's incredible and we've got the amazing Lucas writing shotgun I
hear whether Cernovich.com Twitter at Cernovich Mike Cernovich is here he
wanted to get into and I'm glad he raises this see it Trump supporter
threatens landscapers because their Mexican calls them rapists and animals
now you watch something like this and this is the most ridiculous thing on
earth and the the guy being yelled at looks real like I don't think he knows
that this is going on but this is the type of false flag leftist have been
caught doing over and over and over again and and frankly if white supremacists
have been caught doing it too there's been a lot of famous cases where a
white woman will carve stuff on her and say that black guys raped her I don't
know why I'm a news guy I read the news I've seen that probably ten times and
there's also the other way around where you know black ladies will carve
swastikas on themselves and say white guys did it hell it happened in Austin a
few years ago happened in college station I know two cases in Texas so
there's this thing about being a victim and wanting the attention I'm not saying
this is fake we're gonna play the video though but I think Mike Cernovich is
right just the fact that you go to CNN every day there's some weird video and
I won't even say it because they edit what I say when I do stuff out of
context and then say that I'm saying like Megan Kelly did I said Hillary's
responsible for killing tens of thousands of children in the Middle East
they edit together about some pizza place so I get sued and now she's gonna get
well I'm not gonna say it I'm gonna say it make to the surprise comes the point
is is that Mike Cernovich this is next level yeah yeah exactly I'm not saying
it's fake in fact what I found interesting about this video is most
Trump supporters 99% will go I've never seen a Trump supporter act like that
that's why yeah find out who is this woman did she estate from a mental
institution yeah does she need help maybe she's psychiatric care she oh I
get your angle cuz she does come off as a little bit wacky you're saying it may
not be completely staged but people know who she is in the town know she's a
local in and are protecting that yes I'm worried about this woman's that's an
unstable thing I mean just going up to complete strangers and putting your
hands in someone's face is a very violent that sounds like the Democrats so
it's very weird so it could be she you know it's just the town you know has
really problems or whatever but for me what I find compelling is that if you
make a gif or whatever they can find you even if you're anonymous but nobody's
identified it every video says unidentified white woman nobody on the
the private or the public Facebook no one's looking because normally it'd be
the search for who she is who is this idiot bigot like permit Patty for
example so there was that woman in San Francisco who by the way was a liberal
she was actually a liberal a weedhead and she wanted to call the police in an
eight-year-old African-American girl who was selling bottled water they dubbed
her permit Patty they found out who she was in 30 minutes right permit Patty
was a recent case of a San Francisco liberal going after an African-American
entrepreneur they found her 30 seconds right like no problem but with this
woman here in running Springs it's actually easier to find out who someone
is in a small town because if you grew up in a small town and you see a local
person on seeing I agree so what do you think they know she's the local crank
and they're covering that up and she's probably a Democrat my my best guess
would be that she is a local a senile person that they actually feel sorry for
me and that they're just yeah yeah and somebody sent her over well I mean but
once I went and watched the video the guy looks like he's legitimately being
bitched at she just looks either like she's it's a setup or she's nuts I don't
mean that meanly she does look like what you'd see on the street corner you know
somebody that schizophrenic yeah that that's exactly what I'm saying is I
think maybe like a local person goes oh let's send this crazy and again I don't
my mother has been in institutions for bipolar I take mental illness very
seriously so I'm not being we're not making fun of her yeah she just yeah
well let me say this I've never seen the racist stuff people talk about until I
was getting divorced and my money was locked up and I couldn't get a house so
I got a you know three-room condo and I was around the so-called leftist elitist
and I heard you know some race stuff from them but they hated everybody
everybody when somebody else would walk over we were grilling hamburgers out of
the pool they talk crap about them they talk crap about the next person they
look at that dumb redneck this person but they had these cool guys that
happen to be black that would detail your cars for a really good price in that
in the garage so I started finding how much they were I started getting them
to clean my car once every two weeks and I twice saw ladies and then Mercedes or
whatever go over to the black guy that's like in somebody's car cleaning it
obviously they're going what are you doing in here black guy so I get that goes
on it was very upsetting to me that but but and again I found out who these
women were guess what Mike they weren't conservatives well that was what permit
Patty proved permit Patty was the the face of modern mainstream liberalism
lives in San Francisco selling marijuana because if you're white woman in
San Francisco you can sell marijuana and not go to jail but if you're a young
african-american girl trying to sell bottled water they want to rush you so
permit Patty is that she is the face of modern white liberalism they love to
call the police well that was my thing it wasn't even some I was embarrassed by
how these women were actually the two times I saw it and the way these guys
were so nice you tell that must happen all the time okay man here's my car
would you like me to do your car I'm blah blah blah the guys were cool
like I saw that once is why I got them to start doing my cars and they said yeah
I know what happens every day but the fact was they were you guys I don't care
make it a hundred grand a year doing this put these people whatever but the
point was those guys weren't victims they were entrepreneurs doing a good job
stand and getting pushed around but but they didn't take it on like oh I got a
bunch of weird old white people messing with me I'm gonna freak out listen I
gotta live in a gay community because of threats I don't like living in even a
fancy neighborhood and then all those old weirdos hate my ass man because I'm
not in the country club I don't play all that do I turn into this big victim
because every one of these old blue blood mummies doesn't like me no I could
care less yeah is this is this ideology of this victim hood mentality which they
have been instilled in the black community and these white liberals are
the most racist people that you will ever come across and the beautiful thing
about that story is well guess what they've set the system in place that if
you were to see that what's the first thing most people think oh that must be
a Republican because Republicans are the racists the Nazis they hate they hate
Hispanics and the second thing is they don't even have to mention who she's
with because they already have that set in place so they can just show just show
there you go there it is same thing they do with Trump when they run out of
stories what do they do they make they come up with stuff well is he being
impeached is he colluding with so-and-so is this happening
Tom Arnold says he's a he's going down well yeah the issue with the white
liberals too is I don't even know if it's fair to call them racist they just they
hate everybody for a difference that's what I was saying I noticed that liberals
living down at the Ashen for three years I learned it they talk crap about
they hate everybody hmm I mean a conservative Republic of the successful
would know who people are cleaning cars nothing is left is so stupid they're
always afraid of everything too sorry go ahead Mike well speaking of liberals
let's talk about your friend Ron Perlman who challenged you to a fight and
then back down and he goes oh I urinated in my hand before I shook Harvey
Weinstein's hand and I don't know if you saw that tweet no I didn't even know he
back down oh I saw it yeah yeah so he Ron Perlman admitted that he knew about
Harvey Weinstein what Weinstein was doing and he's such a why was Perlman even mad at
me I saw the news when he said he wanted to fill me in cuz I can't keep track all
this stuff what how do you back down what happened well no no well Ron Perlman
had challenged you to a fight and then we were on your show and we accepted and
then he back down and hid and went you know yeah but so what he did was he
tweeted out yesterday the day before he said I was at a charity gala and Harvey
Weinstein told me I'd better shake his hand so I went into the bathroom and I
took a urination on my hand and then I shook Harvey Weinstein's hand sounds
like mental illness that's what I'm saying who does that but it's also
showing this this pure cowardice just pure cowardice he's thinking he's
standing up to the man I'm like what you did was like some passive aggressive
little cowardice thing and that's what they are their cowards at their core see
I would shake Weinstein's hand and then not let go of it and turn my camera on
I've done that before and and short-ass and serious questions yeah but so the
Ron Perlman thing really just typifies everything that the thing is they never
challenged you never challenge anybody in their own peer group right they've
never asked Bill Clinton if he's a rapist they never asked Harvey Weinstein
about anything none of these media matters left-wing washout groups ever do
it so Ron Perlman oh big tough guy peed in my hand and shook Harvey Weinstein's
hand yeah way to go buddy wait show everybody how tough show plus Perlman
didn't know the secret even if he was in shape he might start winning at first
but once he starts hurting me that's when he gets hurt because I'm not looking
for trouble but he's just a total punk when we kind of we're gonna come right
back with Mike Cernovich and more right on the other side the amazing Lucas I'm
gonna ask him what he predicts coming up we've taken thousands of years of known
research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to
find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify
the body that's why I'm introducing the Z shield toxic metal and chemical
defense support it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds from
nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it
supports the info or it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that I
personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as
close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you
want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this
country in the world that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused
as you can be because we need you the remnant of America to reignite those
brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be
thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now
it's time to change our bodies with z-shield info wars life com years ago
info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat
internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the
environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to
help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for
that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your
body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in
the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list
of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal d'arco bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of
time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new
and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life com that's info wars life
com you're listening to the alex jones show from the front lines of the
information war it's alex jones
amazing lucas is here we also have mike sternovich which i'm jealous of at
this point because he really does get under the left of skin see it from
support of a rates landscaper because they're mexican calls them rapist and
animals well you know i don't show people the old videos of his spanish
gang members beating up white people are you know racial racial attacks of
black folks target white people that that goes on but imagine i ran it hundreds
of times and said black people don't you feel bad for the knockout game no we've
played it we've talked about it once or twice we don't but they're gonna run
this forever the point is they're bad people in every group so let's go ahead
and roll some of this bizarre video that took place in california and like
mike sort of it said why is there not a search for who this lady is in this town
of 5,000 people because you can tell she's in people's faces all day is she
bipolar is she schizophrenic i'm not trying to defame her i'm just saying she
looks like a crazy person here it is
i don't know why you hate us why do you hate us because we're mexicans we're honest people right here
rapist? how many people have i raped? how many people how many drugs have i dealt?
well oh yeah you believe everything you see on the news? do you see how we're working hard right here?
hey well that idiot lady doesn't even know that guy's probably been her 5,000
racists. no, look here. I don't know any rational person who behaved like that.
wow, seeing someone look at her face when she turns the camera she should be
that has that crazy person look can we can we get her when she turns the
camera and blow her face up? i mean she's a lun bag what are you gonna say? i just i
don't see how any rational person or insane of mind would behave that way
knowing that they're being recorded. look at her. i mean
that woman is guaranteed probably has Alzheimer's i think like certain of it
said that's the look of dementia and i somebody might have wound her up too
like hey betty we'll give you $100 you go out and mess with those mexicans out
there well what do you think Mike you're a smart guy got level yeah and it got
level i think some local teenagers or something just because we had people like
that ride grew up where don't step on the grass and then you step on the grass
and the old you know she would come out you know exactly they come like the
wicked west so growing a small town we actually had two women like that older
women and as a kid this was mean but and you do stuff to them and then blame it
on somebody else i didn't do about new kids that did it exactly so i bet
somebody broke in her house and then said hey betty it's the mexicans mm yeah
they wound her up they knocked on her door oh those are the people i saw they
were looking in that's why you don't see anything before the video or after she's
that little clip right it's like a 29 31 second clip even though there's still
like a conversation on going like she hasn't stopped no that's the look of
the brain shutting down like look at how the nerves are even attached to her
mouth you know it's sad she has that look yeah i mean it's definitely a
tragedy so i that's why i'm trying to figure out you know did some local
teenagers harass this poor woman and you know just wind her up and lighter or
whatever that's why i just want to know why the media is not trying to find out
who that is and that's why i want to get a bunch of extra reporters hired and i
didn't plug last hour and fund ourselves which is my problem i don't plug
enough when i plug we get the money to fund things expand is that i'd love to
have a crew that like because mike always has great ideas my terms is always
like hey hillary's coming to or or or um booklet is coming to town and he just
always just hey why don't you do cnn's terrorist why don't you always great
ideas and then he's like hey he'd call up and say hey why don't you send a crew
here in fact i can even have you starting to miss just i have a crew that you
direct or something it can be the jones sternovich crew i i all can pay for it
god just because everything you every that's why they don't like you
everything you've done is turned to gold that's what it is well that that's the
idea is we could get somebody there to interview the townspeople and
hold that picture and say do you know who this woman is but the key is it's
got to be done right when it breaks yeah you know rapid response force you have
to yeah because then it just spreads like a wildfire
amazing lucas is in studio and of course the amazing mike sternovich i'm alex
jones info wars dot com living in volcano
may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in
leilania states but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles
and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels
to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals
alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels
of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater
next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure
but the ph was also restored to optimal levels
as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a
rainwater supply but more importantly a good
water filtration system will purify it
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide
it's alex jones
the amazing lucas riding shotgun with myself and mike sternovitz just made a
great point do we forget that even when ran
paul was running for the senate they caught
democrats and i remember seeing the photos on air and saying
folks got to go search who this is who is this in this town in kentucky and they
found he was worked for the campaign of the democrats
that uh he was running against and and they're out there in hay seat outfits
with a with a farmer hat and and and coveralls or
overalls with signs going i love the kkk and i love ran paul
and i hate the mexicans and the media show deceptive they'll take that and
play it and say see there's jones like once i said i don't hate gay people i
love gay people i love everybody i don't hate gay people
they edited it show a little bit of screen on cobear
where you can't even see the edit goes i hate gay people i mean
i'm telling you man and so he was making the point that
they have caught people thousands of times they've been caught staging
things yeah i mean it's not that far it's not that big of a stretch and then
that's that's really the scary thing because during the election what they
were doing they were planting people in the trump rallies
to cause the problem to cause a stir and it came out wiki looks we were right
exactly so i mean like i said desperate times calls for desperate measures
it would make sense why they would do the you know put out a piece like that
just reinforce it the same thing where you have with the police
and the video camera comes out and what they said is turns out to be just a
member of the NAACP head yeah said that the guy called me all these racial
names and did all these horrible things the cop lets him off like three things
the car's not registered right all this stuff's missing the cops totally polite
and it's the whole and i never but here's the thing i didn't air that
we had an article but i couldn't even air it because i felt like it would
create more division and that's my point i'm making about taking
something embarrassing like this and running it over and over again yeah
now did i do the right thing mic not ever airing the NAACP head
in a major city being a race baiting horrible liar i just
i could hardly watch it once and because i felt sorry
for humanity that they've programmed people
to have the cop kiss his ass and then have him
lie about the cop and try to get the cop fired not knowing
cops all got cameras on him now what do you think mic what do you think amazing
Lucas well yeah there was also that case where
Sean King falsely accused the police officer of raping a woman
millions of people saw these allegations and everything so
i i'm like you where i don't like race baiting and what i found is you don't
when you when you report on too many of these stories
you do attract that small percentage of people the left and the right
who are just toxic and looking for some of the blame so yeah i understand you
don't want to attract that crowd it's a it's a bad crowd there aren't a lot of
them but but they're a bad crowd but on the other hand
you you do you know as journalists we do want to tell the truth and when there
are hoaxes we do want to call out those hoaxes there's an example we used to
run our own comments till about five six years ago and when somebody threatened
the president secret serves would show up as i said hey
let's go to the third party thing like discus show i don't have control to see
it anymore but back then we would go in and see the commenters going
you know and again i can't even the media showed us up now i can't even say i
can't quote stuff down as they edit it they cover my mouth they would say
stuff like kill the inwards do all this other stuff and then they'd have
people said they were black folks they would kill the horrible whites were
going to kill you and then my it people we did
were videos on this we ought to find them and it was the same groups of people
and we tracked it back to pr firms who weren't even hiding their identities
who had what they called sock puppets back then now they call them bots
and they had hundreds of bots on the sites that would go into a story about
fluoride bad for your children and it would just be
inward inward inward white crackerhead you know just huge fight and all it was
was some pr firm creating division i mean that is
that is crazy and that's all you need all you need is that one person that one
story and then you can guilt through association
that's how they do it and spreads like wildfire and they repeat and repeat and
show it show it again and again it's even the news twitter box
put out racial slurs and i remember talking to it and they're like we should
just get rid of comments and i said no people like it but
mike what do we do i mean because because i don't want to be too confident
humanity's waking up the globalists are in trouble the u n says we're going to
take over the e u now the military is going to stop nations that don't bring
in the islamics i mean it's now a world government war against nation states
people are waking up but at the same time i just at a gut level
i feel like we're not doing enough and you know i talked to my level folks this
week i'd heard from a while but they literally asked me what do you think we
should do and i was like are you pat me on the head they're like no
go with your gut tell us what we should do and it was actually
very stressful to be told this now that i'm being asked what to do and it wasn't
condescension so what do you think we should do
they're asking us they're listening to the show the white house is
what do we do yeah we have to spread more
radical love a lot of people have noticed that
when you insult me now i say i love you god loves you i wish blessings on you
i used to be known for just body slamming people you know you'd come at me and i
would call you you know any kind of despicable name i could
but then i realized that the the energy right now the demonic energy of the
left is so strong that it's up to the good people
always be polite super polite and that's why marz said he wants you to die it's
the love that's their scare to kanya yeah it's the love
absolutely and you need to give it to them give them the truth but do it do it
you know do it's love so what do i do if i'm sitting
with my family at brunch and people walk over and go
you're a racist you're a terrorist you're going down jones and won't stop
what do i do i guess i get up like kanya did when he was at tmz and just go i
love you i love you whatever i did i'm sorry i'm
i'm sorry how have you took it wrong i'm sorry i said that's what i've been
thinking because even though i didn't really do what they're saying i'm gonna
say i'm sorry yeah because if you act if you
do anything remotely that they would find aggressive that's
it's done it's game over because that's what they're aiming for it that's what
they want you to do no sure they get they get happy when i go f you
you know and and i buttoned some big guy doing it because then you know that
really triggers me some big guys you know saying i'm like oh really you know
then then they like laugh and you know get off on it so so what do i do
sarnovich yeah no that's what i've been doing i
tell people i love you you're amazing god loves you i want blessings on you i
say like i hope the universe blesses you i wish
abundance on you and your life and your family and then they're like wait wait
wait yeah but then what do you do if it's a mob
forming it like again because i've had it in in seattle
or zimmerman's like but we gotta stop and then a guy tried to run me over and
they were forming mobs and we had to stay in the hotel the last day
well yeah um we always want to film um because i was attacked by a guy actually
at austin a year ago and i i punched him you know he
he went to punch me missed i swung punched him right from the police
the cop goes you're all right he i saw everything that happened and we just
escorted out so yeah the the cameras are your best friends because they will lie
and they will false flag you so definitely oh that happened three times in
hawaii all three women came over and said you're a racist you're a russian
you're a sandy hook and iron you are the children and then i would say hey let's
be nice i tried that i said let's shake hands they go
security get away from me security wow i'm sitting in a restaurant with like
the bartender looking like laughing at her yeah yeah that's why i just tell
us so you know what god loves you i wish nothing but the best for you and your
family and you know always have cameras you know you always have cameras like
some yeah the the potbelly goblin or whatever it is in your face
yeah it's hard not to do it but the way Bernie Sanders guy kept bumping me
saying stop bumping me that's another thing they do i'm sorry go ahead
well we're winning the moral high road so our job
is to be impeccable i've even cleaned up my image you know me
used to see me in just gym clothes all the time and never really cared about my
hair never really got but but we have to just present up an
impeccable leadership position we're in like yesterday i went on air i had a
really bad headache allergies or whatever i just wore a t-shirt and i
changed the middle of the show and put a sports jacket on because i knew the
white house and the campaign everybody were actually
let me ask you this though we'll do one more second with both of you but i don't
want to get into inside baseball stuff but what do you make of high level
folks asking info wars what do you think we should do what comes
next and then it's not it's not a thing to pat us on the head
they're literally asking me what they think we should do because they know our
track record is so accurate predicting things
yeah well and they also know that you know the audience is massive you know
five to ten million people listen in every day so there that shows that they're
they're waking up and they're learning who their friends are and who their
friends aren't because a lot of people that know this but
paul ryan is actually trying to get an amnesty bill passed as a way to
suppress trump voter turnout that way he can help lead the
impeachment against trump tragaudy um they finally realized what i've said
many times on your show you said it first you said he was a mole
yeah so that's it that's what they said is that man
it was like we were right about the how the i mean we know what they're planning
because we read what they say and it's like they're up in that bubble up there
and they just can't believe how accurate we've been and i'm not trying to do our
horn sorrows to them want to shut us down and you down because they know how
accurate we are yeah and it's it's a war and
information that's what it is and you guys are getting out the truth
and that that affects them that impacts them and they can they can't allow it
they just can't one more segment with mike sarna which you're right to
shotgun the amazing lucas it's historic time to be alive folks
find out all about mike sarnavitch's books and his great supplements for more
at sarnavitch.com i'm alex jones info wars dot com news wars dot com if you
don't fund us we will fail stocks and options trading in both financial
risk and it's not suitable for all investors fire your stockbroker and
hire yourself i'm scott bowyer and i've been a
professional trader for over 25 years i've traded for goldman sacks and was
the first amazon market maker at the chicago board options exchange
i'm also the ceo here at prosper trading academy the leading
educational firm teaching people how to trade the markets
for a limited time i'm giving away one of my favorite secret trading techniques
used by thousands of our students every day to help build their financial
future to learn this technique right now call my 24 seven voicemail
and just leave your email address i'll email you my free trading technique
right away just call 1-800-228-2155 this is the very
information my students use every day to invest in their financial future
again call 1-800-228-2155 in the next 30 minutes
and leave your email address on my voicemail that's 1-800-228-2155 call
1-800-228-2155 if you like alkaline water or know
someone that does you're going to love the dylan living water bottle it creates
alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money
made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the ph up to
nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even
boost energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and
affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration
get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's dyln.co
want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally
come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries
required so much fun you'll forget you have a
wife and kids 39 95 and free economy shipping use
discount code GCN and get an extra 10 off your purchase at bugassault.com
fire your fly swatter get your bug assault today
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world
it's you that has defeated hillary and the globalist
it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more
important than ever that everyone go to info wars.com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can
get between us with critical videos articles
breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you
can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com
forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning info wars life is launching its newest product we're
really really proud of it it's a best source
prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known
to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more
and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live
active culture for a life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast
the mold and the funguses in the gut so this is the time
to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products you get them separately or together and make
really really big savings and get high quality products at the same time
and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies
sold out in a month uh strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can
come up with it's sold out for another month and a half
we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way
with this fiber get yours today in FullWarsLife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
i'm alex jones broadcasting worldwide mike sternovich is right
shotgun with us got the amazing lucas with us
uh here's the deal when you've got david lynch on your side the icon of the left
and he was never even leftist they just they they can't figure out his work so
they think it must be the best and a lot of it is great
uh you know lost highway all of it dune you name it but and and and he's been on
the show and and i've you know hung out with him some but that's all off
record uh lynches there's a lynch in public and there's
the lynch you know behind the scenes i'm gonna leave it at that
i'm like gorva doll he was very interesting behind the scenes
versus what he was on the scenes uh but all that will go to my grave
i can tell you anything with you know david lynch or anything with with
gorva doll or anything with you know the stanley cubrick stuff i'm just saying
hollywood is a tyranny and the people under it don't want to be part of it
and there's a revolt and i'm just going to tell you this
kurt russell uh bruce willis um plentys would all those people and some big
producers are really trying to crack hollywood right now
and bring it back but bring it back just from an american of you show
when you see kanye and all this that's what's going on beneath the surface
and you know kanye west uh has been looking to go on other big liberty
base shows and i know from folks that talk to him
uh that they threatened to baker act him again so
that's the point we all need to show courage in the face of this amazing
lucas mic cernovich i wanted to ask you in a minute too you were saying some
solution ideas what trump needs to do not some stunts but some things that
really illustrate what's happening but amazing lucas what would you call this
period we're in right now uh i would say a revolution honestly
um because that's what's happening we're taking back america
because when it comes to the media everywhere they're at the media
hollywood uh magazines print tv we need to be right there behind them
instead of putting out the truth and people see that contrast
they'll they're waking up and they know when they call us right wing noxies
anybody that's watched knows that i'm not even a conservative i'm like a
common sense prosperity pro america guy how would you decide to find yourself
it's not about talking about ourselves but they're always trying to define us
so i think part of part of victory is defining who we are yeah i'm i've been
called a nazi
jesus what did you say to the moron when they said it i i was i was dumbfounded
i was just like what
that's all you can say because they're so gone that they truly believe it
mike how would you define yourself i i get i get that all the time i'm like dude i'm
you know i'm in a my daughter you know they're like oh you hate
minorities i'm like well my daughter is you know you know not that it matters
or whatever but it's just so weird that that's the thing that i that i learned
about there are some lessons you know maybe we're digressing but
you know alex mentioned covering his mouth earlier there are some lessons
that i wish that i had known early on so anybody listening i once read a
dramatic reading of charles manson's book and not realizing because i was naive
at the time how they'll edit stuff and pretend that you actually really said
that and the defining myself i go oh they call
me this you're right on that sarcastically
so what they do is they'll edit anything you say
to try to define you is what you're not because me i'm not
so we're your friends though and so is everybody else who knows who you are
so when they get those edited tanks on you notice i didn't turn against you
and it wasn't it wasn't in it was because i know you're real
and i know what they do but exactly when i repeat what they say now i have to
cover my mouth because they'll edit it
yeah i do big hand gestures now whenever i do that whenever i do
that messes up their jump cuts yeah and again the tricks they use though when
you're ever watching a show they'll have a little screen
like cobert will turn to it and i'll say i can't even say you know i hate the
gay people i hate the black people and it's just edited stuff and then they
just put it up there propaganda but that's what i mean like
you want to get honest i mean i'm not a violent guy but the writers of cobert
and people i'd like to you know sometimes i get let's just say this
they're frauds they're con men and they get and they're bullies and they piss me
off as only natural you that's why i worry about yeah
well i'm saying that's why i'm worrying about your friend you know that riding
shotgun and stuff you're gonna become a target now you're
you're gonna media matters it's gonna you know smear you and everything you have
no other choice though yeah talk about why you got off the
me you didn't get off the fence but you had your own career and why you went
public doing 3d animation i've you know i've always had a conservative
had a conservative upbringing um and you know i was
didn't really care anything about the eight years of obama because obama could
have done anything and they would have just like oh it's greatest thing ever
but what i realized is when trump came into office
during the administration during his inauguration they were talking about well
that his speech was reminding me of a dictator a dictator i heard the
speech i was like okay that's interesting america's coming together we
love each other yeah and then then it got to the
point of being petty with the the crowd size oh that he's lying about the
crowd size what else could he be lying about in the
administration i'm like the man hasn't even stepped foot in the
oval office and you're just already attacking him
and then it got to the well the mok bus you he removed it you see he's a racist
i was like then we find out that didn't happen and it's just been an attack after
attacking a myriad of attacks i'm like hold up if they can attack the president
of the united states like this and no one wants to mention
that if hillary clinton had won mom would have been the word we wouldn't have
found out about any of this and that's where they miscalculated i agree
exactly you're gonna keep riding shotgun we've got a
liberal journalist slash lawyer coming on uh who is pointing out this whole thing
at the border is a hoax as well so that's coming up but but let me just ask
you in closing mike as you pull me some inside baseball during the break won't
get into who you met with but you were advising them on
what you thought would be good things for the president to do so how does the
president get ahead of them trying to cause a race war a culture war they're
going to disguise as left versus right it's really a race war led by a bunch of
weird white people i'm at the sense of virtue signal it's a bunch of damn white
people liberal white people are the problem
what how do we stop that what does trump need to do because we because you know
we're in some serious situations here right so while i don't want to be you
know taken out of context by the fake news media
i will say that when ordinary trump supporters
now face the kind of attacks that you and i and lucas and so many other people
do that maybe now they're realizing oh the left isn't going to stop with the
so-called french figures they're going to go after everybody and
they're going to go after your children so so what they need to do what trump
needs to do is i've always been critical so when people call me an
apologies for trump i go wow you've never watched my videos i've always said
that trump has never tweeted about how if you wear red hat public and you get a
brick down in your face doesn't care but alex balvin makes fun of him or and
that's trump's biggest failing and i forgot to tell him that
that the fact that he doesn't make a big deal how he always goes we're tough
we're great we're winning he doesn't want to act like
his people are under attack but the people want him to come out and say
god bless people that have stood up against this crap
and this intimidation he could open the discussion with giving the names of
ice putting dead animals on their property saying
attack their children and expand that out to america and say
god bless you i appreciate your courage he always just says you're smart
you're smart you know what i'm doing yeah and then he tweets about jimmy
fallen you know get your head in the game bro
act like a leader if your followers don't agree jimmy fallen and all those guys
don't exist you need to you need to talk about
how these people are criminals and how they're liars and how they've been
caught i agree and hate crime prosecutions against
in tifa the far left we need jeff sessions to
begin prosecuting these domestic terrorists before they go like william
mayers who is brock obama's mentor there'll be weather underground
bombings mike sarnovich i got other guests coming up but i'm gonna do two
more minutes with you you've got to hold you've always got some big inside
baseball or sources on the next thing uh just like info wars does tomorrow's
news today i want to hear other little tidbits because you'll let me
leave the show but i want you to just tell us what else is on your radar the
amazing lucas is here and we've got more coming up stay with us
if you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love
the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade
stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it
alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the
dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve
optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co
that's dyln.co now there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory
that absorbs 40 times better yes nanocurcumin plus from one planet
nutrition contains smaller particle size that allows absorption over 40
times better into your bloodstream nanocurcumin plus may also help reduce
pain and inflammation detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes
nanocurcumin plus is now on sale at oneplanetnutrition.com
use promo code GCN for your special discount at oneplanetnutrition.com
the next generation of nutritional supplementation
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping
between debt crisis natural disasters or even simple power outages
having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info wars life select
storable food you can make sure you and your family are
ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in
amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year
there's no better place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals
including meals such as traveler stew home style potato soup and a variety of
other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life select
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need
they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have
easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip
don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up
today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life
select storable foods i want to plow into all of this
that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to
understand that when you buy t-shirts or water
filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding
the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential
that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com and i want to thank
everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot
beat that for children and adults we've got the best
mouthwash designed by dr. jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as
well info wars life dot com or triple a 253 3139
and your personal products stands with us stands with america stands with
trump stands against the globalists and their satanic
pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get
you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the
world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid
speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day
info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and
beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout
head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
relentlessly attacking the power structure you're listening to alex jones
all right mike sternovich is always pissing the global stuff phil marvitt
just joined us said he hopes that his head is cut off putting it out of him
the children eat his his face and then he commits suicide
because bill mar called for a depression he's an economic collapse
that's not a recession and tens of thousands commit suicide during that
society was tweeted it and then he said i hope you die
we're going to go to susan pie who is a lawyer
who's nonpartisan and who's even been criticized coming on the show there
she was coming on the thought police thought about what's really happening
with kids with the border and what's having trump will talk to him
or talk to her just a moment uh she's at strong visa dot com
but finishing up with uh mike sternovich mike a lot of stuff on the radar you
got your big film hoax coming out i've talked to people that are involved in
film they say it's amazing the crew that the other people so i look forward to
that being a vehicle just a free speech when you and i go on tour together
so we can kind of announce that's coming up here and freak out the media
uh but looking at this just other little tidbits of what you see
of i see this summer and them trying to cause civil unrest
i see going in with with with mewler saying he's accelerating his
investigation because now they know the blue wave is a red wave
i mean i see real panic setting in his david lynch at khanye west and
everybody comes out and says trump to be the greatest president in history
with all the peace deals everything else the economy coming back
but let's not be too confident as the wolf says in poll fiction
you know let's not start celebrating yet uh what else is going on and and
what are the little nuggets you've got from inside the administration do you
know what malania trump's shirt meant or jacket
oh well what i tell people is it is going to get worse and by that mean by
that i mean if you're a conservative or libertarian
and you don't realize that it's gonna get way worse
they're gonna start going through vote what they're gonna do next the left
i've they're they're going to go through voter uh donations and start doxing
people going after every regular person
it's all right my friend it's like i got somebody here gotta go
so that's the next thing that's coming is just a total harassment of
individuals exactly all right mike we'll talk to
you soon when is uh when is the film hoax coming out
we're gonna do uh fall premiere hoaxmovie.com for more details all right
that's great thank you so much dot com thank you uh uh you want to comment on
just just the the moment of history we're in amazing
Lucas the moment of history we're in here
where where most people i know that just want the economy back and like america
aren't even conservatives i mean yeah i was arrested by George Bush twice for
asking questions i mean i i was against those wars
but the left of today is like crazed rabid robots yeah and i think that's
that's the beauty of it because you honestly at this point in time you
don't have to have any you know knowledge of history or the
political affiliation it just boils down to common sense
like when it comes to immigration like common sense
when it boils down to there being two genders
common sense and i think that's where they're losing a lot of their base
because they're just like yo you guys have gone so far left
that i can't even i can't even coastline on that and there's a total war on
reality like it's your reality it's one thing to say
there's 50 genders fine say there's a thousand but then don't try to ban
mother and father off government forms because they're hurtful
yeah it's it's this idea of your truth it's moral relativism
which is absolutely cancer i mean it is and then when you look at it and when
you confront them on these ideas these well
because they can't they can't defend them they're indefensible that's why
absolutely keep riding shotgun with us we're gonna go to uh our guest here in
a moment just first i was i didn't even plug last hour
despite the fact that summer is always the doldrum for funding
even though the audience is record large even for the summer people are
awake and involved while it's happening we're not selling a lot of products in
inforworksstore.com that makes gord soros the global is very very happy
and a lot of it's because i'm not cutting ads i'm not plugging i'm so obsessed
with the news and info but we're not funded by soros we're not funded by
taxpayer money like msnbc was with a banker bellot money in stimulus
package we're funded by you and i came out my dad's a
dentist and old surgeon from the top place in the country that wants to say
their name is they get threatened in a rash the top
organic fluoride free toothpaste maker makes our stuff but they put 50 cents in
each tube we put three dollars a product in it
okay yes that's what i'm talking about and it's got the colloidal silver it's got
the iodide it's got all the real concentrated oils the peppermint you name
it that's why it's so concentrated even an adult might want to water down the
super blue for adults the children's doesn't have uh you know the really strong
tea tree and stuff in it peppermint because it will burn their mouths and
we've got all of it 50 off one of the record sales on that
we've got immune gargle is my dad's name for it because that's a term
but what you do is you brush your teeth you gargle with it you spit it out and
then yes it's a supplement under the fda and all of it you can even
swallow some of it people the way gargle you spit out it's my dad's name
he named it super blue too because the toothpaste turns blue first it's white
that turns blue because it's got real iodide in it that actually turns blue not
red okay so the point is it's amazing and even though
immune gargle the combo doesn't have reviews it's brand new
even though immune gargle is one of our best sellers a lot of folks who are on
the fence that don't try it so whether it's 16 ounces or the 10 ounce the one
ounce or the all of it it's all 50 off or get it all together
at info warslife.com or info wars store.com or triple a 253
3139 now joining us is susan pie and uh this is the first
generation u.s citizen daughter of north korean refugee
she worked in dc with former u.s ambassador to the un former head of the
gsa former assistant director of operations cia
former commissioner of the u.s customs attorney pie is admitted to the
washington bar and practices only federal law so she's a hot shot lawyer
and from her office in florida and she's also a good-looking lady there i
guess it's politically correct i can't say it she's i just did it she also
submitted testimony to the house history committee on humanitarian immigration
in senate judiciary committee members on business immigration fraud and abuse
as an immigration and and a nationality attorney miss pie may appear in all that
he says the u.s and it's strong visa.com and and she's not a liberal she's not
a conservative let her define herself but i've told she's been told don't come
even come on here and and she's just trying to say for as a
lawyer and an expert what's really going on and what's really
happening we know it's a hoax with the little girl
wasn't taken from her parents we now know this is a pr stunt but
she's somebody that's just willing to come in and just state the facts and so
telling the truth in a world of universal deceit is a revolutionary act
so thin and the amazing lucas is riding shotgun thanks for coming on with us
hi thank you alex wow that's a whole cool interesting story about your parents
fleeing north korea i mean we've got to have you on about that separately but
just we've got a few minutes to break we'll come back and get into the details
but in a nutshell you're out there on twitter saying
what we're hearing about trump is it true just as an immigration lawyer
who's non-partisan who's worked i know with both parties what is going on
crystallizing what is really happening
well i think that the democrats or liberals are
they're they're very apt to just sort of dismiss
trump and miller and kelly and neilson and that's a really grave error because
he has been methodically executing his immigration plan
with regards to legal and illegal immigration
i mean basically since seven days into his administration
and i think that the supreme court opinion this morning
on the travel ban reinstituting it indicates a real tectonic level shift
in everything and people would do well to not so easily dismiss him or for
example for people like me to tell me you know i don't even know what they're
thinking to tell me that i'm not allowed to come on your show
or any show for that matter so well that's really it and
if anything trump's trying to make the borders more open for people that aren't
criminals or bad which has got some right wingers mad at him and some of the
actual racist groups that we've been watching and so you're saying
as a you know the senior top immigration lawyers is that's
accurate or can you expand on that because
trumps all about process and it being transparent and working right i mean
as an immigration lawyer what are you seeing him do when you say he's
methodically implementing it's it's all right there
yeah it's it's it's just a law and and rulemaking
setting up cases setting up you know a lots of litigation which you know as
you know it's kind of trumps or k but i think people really underestimate
especially steven miller and his role in you know not only having trumps
here but also in articulating these sort of long range
plans on immigration and it and i i really don't understand what is going
on with democrats or people like maxine waters
they're not spending any time it seems like you know reading what is going on
and steven miller by the way he's not an immigration lawyer but
by no means should he be underestimated i've worked with him
uh what let's hear about that let's hear about steven miller when we come back
they're now harassing him in his house they'll be right back
alex jones here with an extremely
exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info
war to fight the globalist and live in a free society
several years ago i set out with top formulators in the u.s to create
the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the
last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this
new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at info wars life dot com because it works so well
this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting
the info war so it's a total absolute sure win
no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available
info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo
it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the
us day get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com
everybody needs to try alpha power today
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced
the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your
gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you
receive there's no better way to power your body
flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay
fueled all day these incredible formulas can help
keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress age and
outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life
and carnivore to see how well they can support your body
don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula
for inflammatory support and joint support discover the power of ancient
medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the most potent
forms of tumeric available tumeric has been used for thousands of years and is
one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional
medicine for its soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus
peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and
support your flexibility mobility joint function
immune system and so much more regular tumeric root from the store only
contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our tumeric root extract contains over 95 percent
of the active ingredients bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full
body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139 staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough
that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue
line super blue silver immune gargle
available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles
immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go
the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean
as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by
toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients
immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable
help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune
gargle only available at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
oh
susan pie is a leading immigration lawyer and she's talking about mr miller
who's one of the architects of trumps plan and i've looked at trumps plan
i've looked at what he's introduced to congress uh it actually opens america
up for people that aren't criminals and people that go through the system the
democrats and republicans have made a very long arduous system
he's trying to make it more streamlined but no more hidden groups of people no
more 20 million illegals that are you know off the radar the
democrats use them to launder money and you know i mean to me it looks like
trump is really pragmatically uh trying to fix it having a pro
immigrant stance but that's me reading what he's pushing what he said
uh susan what are you saying he's doing versus what we see in the news
i mean honestly i wouldn't call it a pro immigrant
but i will say that uh you know steven miller is a young man he's got the
ear of the president you know his his young age really
belies the the vast depth of knowledge even
including legacy knowledge about immigration uh that he has you know he
did all of uh senator sessions heavy it was a chief advisor well let me stop
you there then i mean you're sounding like you're saying that's a different
plan than what they're saying and that you somewhat agree with it or you don't
for me i'm when i say pro immigrant i mean legal immigrant
streamlining it for good people i mean it's better for good people
or or or give me your view of what trumps proposing then
and then get back into miller yeah i mean you know i i'm not going to
hazard a guess about like what is in trumps mind or anybody else in his
administration i i can tell you you know that that they
are method methodically closing a lot of loopholes that have existed now
just because people on the left uh don't want to
admit that there's you know asylum fraud or
or that united but the fact is is that the united states is the number one
destination for asylum seekers as of right now overtaking
germany 330 thousand asylum seekers in 2017 alone
and you know everybody who goes to immigration court we know
that there are many you know a fraudulent asylum claim said
some unwitting some some malicious you know a lot of people on the left are
saying well you know people are just coming here to get a better life yeah
that's true okay but that's not within the definition of a valid asylum claim
and asylum was never meant to be a blank check
so i think in in that way yes i i'm acutely aware that steven miller knows
where all the loopholes and you know where the fraud and the uses
not just in illegal immigration but also in legal immigration programs like
i mean what the democrats do i mean they just say
get rid of everything and have no border i mean when like
mexico's a war zone exactly what they try to do with
with the wind sign the bill they're trying to get passed
so let me ask you this is a as an immigration lawyer
who i know is draw the ire of the left and i don't even hear what you're
saying that would upset them what is not accurate about what the media is
saying of that that trumps doing okay so there there's like a big story that
just blew up about a guatemalan mother who lost custody of her her child to
american born adoptive parents who are white okay but and that's how it was
presented in in the media but you know that's not really
all there is to that story so just taking that as like an example
you know that woman came here when she was pregnant in 2006
she left two children behind in Guatemala and she's been apart from them
now for 12 years she gave birth to a child in the united states she would
she was busted during the bush obama bush administration working
uh as an undocumented worker in a chicken processing plant
and then a few months later she she pled guilty to
aggravated identity theft and she caught a two-year felony sentence
so and so but the evil white people are taking care of her baby now so they're
bad well i mean the adoptive parents uh from what i read
hired a lawyer for her and then she had no contact with the child
for either one or two years and even though she had
has sisters here in the united states so you know she's been here for 12 years
fighting this case and the department of homeland security has allowed her to
stay here in the united states uh to fight that but meanwhile back in
Guatemala you know she's got two children who have grown up without a
mother so you know it's it's not it's not usually black and white you know
there's there's a lot of stuff that's going on and like this morning you know
the supreme court has just reinstituted the travel ban
not under national security but but under much much
broader statutes and that but i mean you're a lawyer but isn't trump just
following the law the president has the power to do that any country he wants
right i mean he's exercising his presidential
discretion is is what the supreme court says but then the supreme court
went beyond that and said that not only does he have the discretion to exclude
all you know aliens from entry entering the united states
but they even went further to talk about uh 1182 section
i think it's a yeah so if you come to the united thing that that's the thing
the press secretary said she said listen we can't just do whatever we want we
follow the law we can't just do like obama and it's true isn't
from from what i watch trump is very neurotic about following law
that's why he's always saying change it change it
i don't in my opinion i i don't think trump is i think
steven miller is i think secretary neilson you know any female who's in
law enforcement will tell you that you know no woman gets to that kind of a
position in the federal government you know without
being pretty tough as nails and knowing what they're doing
you know so uh and then there's general kelly
you know so i mean they i will say that i i am acutely aware that they know
where all of the weaknesses are in the current immigration
i think it's worth saying they're just looking out for the country like we're
a country i mean because the un wants europe is just
completely open to north africa and in the middle east i mean it's
insane we have to stabilize those countries they are
doubling their population they are collapsing how does
how does bringing in hundreds of millions of people who then the liberals
put on welfare to not be self-sufficient help things it will sink us
why do they want to sink us okay so like i said you know asylum was
never meant to be a blank check i mean certainly
that the underlying core issue that like nobody is talking about that i don't
understand is a global migration crisis that has
displaced so i think it's 68 million people and after
world war two there were 15 million people
displaced so this is an issue that can't be
it's not unique to the united states it's it's an international crisis that
requires much more than just you know short-term
policy making or short-term reactions on the part of this just the united states
but as far as like loopholes within the system
you know i i think people like my my colleagues think that if we don't talk
about what the loopholes are that people won't know well
it's i mean that ship has sailed you know and after this morning with the
supreme court decision reinstituting muslim ban and then even going
further than that uh and saying that you know people have to prove
like affirmatively prove over 60 bases of potential inadmissibility to even be
legally entered to the united states with a legal visa
i mean people have to understand my colleagues have to understand that
there's no hiding anything anymore whether it's
policy deficiencies in policy deficiencies in the law
fraud and abuse or you know anything like that i mean those are
those are all on their radar and they have all been addressed going all the
way back to the first week that trump took
office so when people say to me you know you can't talk on alice jones i mean
i don't i don't understand what they're saying they're saying i people have a
very visceral reaction to you well i tell you
it is all i know is tom arnold said that
he met with trump's lawyer and he was going to spill the beans and in a minute
it was a total hoax he just lied to everybody
hello i'm an entertainer it's funny but they know he's a liar and then all this
little girl was separated from her parents and
we learned that cnn and others knew day one that they went to a family center
and so i know what goes on in mexico in some areas
some areas are nice some areas are bad it's it's road warrior death in northern
mexico on the texas border and then and then i get to
hear about how i'm a nazi because i want to control the border
and it's just none of these leftists would understand that we'd have no
civilization if we allowed latin america collapse into the
us so i'm concerned you've got third world
populations that have doubled they're set to get even bigger
these countries are mismanaged or falling apart run by communists and
socialists and you know you were able to flee from
north korea boy i think your asylum was a hundred percent clear for your parents
god any north koreans can get out come on over
uh but because they're fleeing it they're not like fleeing
socialism or communism trying to come here and set it up it's like californians
are fleeing and they get to austin and they say your trucks are too big give us
your guns we want to raise taxes and i'm like moron you just left that so
that's what i'm getting at here uh miss pie
yeah i mean on on asylum i think that we would
we would do well to correctly educate people and tell them that yes
you know you may be seeking a life for your children which is the natural
inclination of all parents but that doesn't necessarily mean that you know
you qualify for asylum even under the current law
and you say don't use your children as a pawn
yeah absolutely not i mean i you know i have a lot of questions of
look yeah i know lawyers who take 50 a hundred asylum cases a month i i take
two a year so i have to know that the law and the
facts are on well i want to hear about that process back in
in two minutes i want to finish up on how do you take cases and paul wasas
coming up guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial
part of prepping between debt crisis natural disasters
or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial
with info wars life selects storable food you can make sure you and your
family are ready for any emergency with drinks snacks and meals in amounts
ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better place to look for
healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as
travelers stew home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for
breakfast lunch and dinner info wars life selects
storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need
they even work great for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have
easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip
don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up
today with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life
selects storable foods
as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's
nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural
ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients
amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula
the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation
vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects
and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality
ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing
at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34
different essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more
starts supporting your body's needs in a great tasting
natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today
available at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
this message is transmitted at the request with the president of the united
states of america and the office of homeland security
in compliance with the united nations the president of the united
all right ladies and gentlemen uh susan
pie is our guest he's in uh leading well-known immigration lawyers was
getting into what's really happening what trump's doing versus what we're
hearing and you were talking about how do these immigration lawyers take
hundreds of cases versus you saying you only take two i mean
what makes you take one i mean i would imagine somebody fleeing iran who's got
proof they're political dissident somebody's trying to go north korea
obviously there's gonna be a question uh at least in my view or somebody trying
to get out of who's a christian and sudan whose parents were killed i mean
i mean isn't aren't there a lot of real people need to get get into america
yeah so i i have a case and my client's giving me permission to speak about it
to the public but um
you know she was tortured for two decades and when i say tortured i mean
teeth were knocked out of her mouth her eardrum was perforated
her bones were broken she has scars all over her body
her hand was put in an open flame and she was
she was tortured by an actual nazi member of her country's government
okay that's a real asylum thing she she has to grieve
for her son who she left behind and she has to
think of him as dead because she cannot turn
him away from you know her abuser who was her husband in her country but who is
ironically in charge of asylum cases in her country now
that's really different than um some of my colleagues who
who you know we're lawyers so all there is for us is the law and the facts
it's it's not like our our political opinion so whether or not we think
somebody deserves you know a chance in a better country
i mean i can see that of the vast majority of people you know who don't
are not fortunate enough to live in the united states but that doesn't mean that
i as a lawyer am allowed to file those cases just to get my client work
authorization six months after we file because i know that the case is going
to go on for three four five six eight years
i was about to say though and then a lot of cases don't you even get government
funding for the appeal
i mean all all federal public defenders can
sit on a panel and and get compensated by sure so so these people
take on all these cases and they're sitting there doing it and then if you
expand on that you start thinking about it
yeah i i have a problem like with you know
whether you're an extremist on the right or the left i mean it really doesn't
matter you know you're an extremist so you know there are extremists on the
left who are who are very i mean they just don't
recognize just because you don't recognize america's borders
doesn't mean that borders don't exist okay borders exist
and i mean genders don't exist i mean i think the amazing lucas is a man
i think the amazing susan pie is a woman and it doesn't hurt anybody else out
there that they identify as a potted plant the fact is mammals are males and
females and you know we have borders and we're a country and there's
six billion people that want to come here and you know uh it's like ellis they
go ellis silan take our poor ellis silan put your ass in solitary confinement for
six months they thought you were sick you know the quarantine
and and so i've been we're talking to the border patrol how they're bringing people
in with diseases you name it and now these diseases that weren't even in the
u.s like leprosy are back it's incredible
well you know i don't i i know for a fact because i've been following some of
the uh real extremist elements of open borders
movement for many many years and i know for a factor they've come right out and
said that we hey we use bodies uh to push our political
agenda and when they say we use bodies that means they're purposefully
using uh women children you know uh families and i don't know that the
people who are organizing things like the migrant caravan i don't know that
they are um if they're not misleading the people who
are a lot of useful idiots sign on because they want to go in virtue signal
you're absolutely right all right strong visas dot com
susan pie thank you for coming on the broadcast and we appreciate your
perspective
all right uh we're gonna do one more segment with paul watson with the
amazing lucas and get his take on that and we got the war room coming up after
that but there is just so much
that we've got to go over but man the supreme court i haven't even gotten into
that properly i've slapped down of them is just epic
because the law is crystal clear and so all these are little subjudges they
ignored it but why did the supreme court actually
follow the clear cut law bless that question straight ahead and we have
jw coming up nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with
prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and
support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber
that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied
ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is
slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect
head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex
john show
well there he is ladies and gentlemen
we've got the amazing lucas we've got the elusive
Watson there he is the waddle wart hey Watson you've got a lot coming up this
hour a lot of craziness going on but um i was asking some folks in the
government you know kind of high level the other day
what can i do and they said no no what do we do
and i was like is that a pat on the head and they said no your track record
everything you're doing what do you think and i said well
they're getting ready for the civil war this is like last wednesday
and uh they're getting ready to try to take down the whole country and they're
going to cause race riots calling it republican versus democrats they're
going to ratchet up violence and they're going to come out with all their
fake russia gate stuff and try to 25th amendment
and i i i just don't think we can sit here and just beat them with prosperity
and truth at a certain point when people are saying they're going to overthrow
the government i don't know what we do
and so i i did an analysis the first 30 minutes where i
kind of put my best thinking cap on of what we should do Watson but
you've got the un and Reuters announcing that they're basically with the EU
setting up an EU army to make people accept open borders they're going to
use the crisis of tens of millions of invaders
macron says 200 millions what he wants the next decade as you know
to take over and have the un so it's simple they orchestrate the collapse of
third world open up incentivize people coming into the
countries with welfare and everything else bring them in in mass and then use
them as a political detonator to control the populations this is
21st century warfare world war four is here
again cold war was world war three the cold war was world war three
that's where we are and the president gets it and miller gets it and you get it
we all get it and but at the same time now they're going into their full
intimidation mode doxing patriots doxing federal
agents they're moving and i'm not just going to sit here
flat-footed it doesn't mean i'm launching some operation
but we have been tasked with because we are recognized info wars as these
guys and so i will tell you that high level
folks want to know what everybody here thinks
so paul what do you think well i mean i get the same thing from over here in
the uk alex you'd be surprised some of the people who you think maybe
used to be in the elite or have you know one
tau in the elite you know dipped in the elite they're totally on our side now
you got another example of that today conrad black
this is a former steering committee member of the builder bird group
doesn't get much more elitist than that he's come out and said that trumps
basically engaged in a bloodless civil war
against the establishment against the deep state you see the clip there
and that he's basically winning this is someone who was in the upper echelons of
the elite for decades and decades and as you just said
you know i talked to people in this country who are coming from the same
direction who were kind of you know tiptoeing on on the globalist hierarchy
five ten fifteen years ago and now they're completely on board
because we're winning and that's why they're all freaking out and panicking
because they're still and i mean it's it's really getting boring alex
when i have to make the same video was about the same subjects because they've
gone back to the original rhetoric like with deniro a couple of weeks
ago he said the same thing you know f trump and that's going to achieve
anything in front of a sycophantic audience so let me ask you this and then
i'm going to get out of here great amazing lucas is here but
this is the point we've gotten to i'm not going to get into what's happened in
the uk behind the scenes of the e you but we have the same approach by top
people and they say we're ready for you and paul to
lead operations and and these are famous people we're
talking to we're like well wait we are leading operations
and and then it's the same thing so so i'm just saying we we have to step into
that and realize that all these beach heads we've
got are just those and just like we don't realize we're in the catbird seat
our listeners don't realize they are like captains or kernels in his fight
everything we do now people are listening they get it they know it there's a
sense of optimism but there's a vacuum in leadership
in that so many people don't want to then say what we need to do
or what needs to happen or what needs to unfold so paul what do you think
i think we're doing pretty well as it is i mean why do you think they're panicking
they weren't panicking before they had this blue wave rhetoric that was going
on for months you know democrats 16 points ahead in the race for the house
as recently as december that's completely vanished
so as soon as that vanished they started freaking out again what's new about it
this is what i've noticed over the past few weeks alex
is targeting children like literally calling to intimidate and target
children not only did you have peter fonder
you know calling for baron trump to be put up under break by pedophiles
and going out to protest border patrol agent schools at which their kids
attend you also had the daily beast out in
pamela gala's daughter she's got an islamic terrorist fatwar against her
family completely exposed them put them at risk of death
you have tom tom arnold he's this d-rate celebrity washed up celebrity
claims he's got all these secret trump tapes
he put out a tweet a few days ago he said next is protesting baron's private
school as well as james and lachlan murdoch's kids
this is what i can do to end the abuse of these children we're going to make you
uncomfortable so they're literally talking about going out and
intimidating people's children that's where it's reached a new level
this is the lowest of the low so they're trying to launch a violent civil war
many experts believe we're already in it and that they're going to try to totally
overthrow european here in the next year
and you know going back to what i was just saying this sarah hookabee sander
story he was out that this wasn't violent this is just
confronting her outside a restaurant whatever no
she went home she went home with her husband her family went on to a different
restaurant they follow them yeah they harassed them too
they're not just harassing the trump administration officials
they're targeting people's families they're the lowest of the low it's
absolutely despicable and that's not a vote winning strategy
it's desperation it's a sign that they're losing no i agree with you and
that's why schumer and people like want to have the cake in here too they're like
oh don't do that don't don't do it and then waters goes i didn't do that
and no one's criticizing me so i agree but mueller and brennan and all them
are still planning a violent coup they've said
they're planning it they want a 25th amendment as well so
i agree we're winning paul but i'm telling you that makes them go into
cornered rat mode and i'm telling you they're gonna make some major
moves what do you think get some you're absolutely right get some desperate
and when they see you know people are turning it gets
it's unknown what they're liable to do and they're known for going for the
lowest of the lowest tactics and when it comes to the children
well they see that you ask anyone well if you could have stopped hitler would
you have it's like yeah they would so if they see you the
parent as a nazi well guess what that's a little hitler right next to them
they've already dehumanized you and your whole family so paul
all these countries in europe even socialist countries other going bankrupt
they're turning back the sorrow stuff i mean it is falling apart but but how
again what's their next move because we're tomorrow's news today we can't
what does trump need to do
i don't know i'm not i'm not in the business of making predictions he needs
to do what he's doing already i mean he's just had another major victory today
and we're winning we're winning in italy we're winning the votes because people
are seeing that they're completely unhinged and that doesn't
resonate with calm reasonable rational people it's not a vote winning strategy
they've got no candidate for 2020 they've got no platform apart from the social
justice bs which if you look at the polls
everybody's turned off to they've got nothing so they're just going to lash
out they're going to try to incite violence inside
stuff that we've already why don't they run maxine waters then we draft her
then we draft maxine waters the other thing alex
you were talking about sternovich and bill ma want to him you know him to put
his head in an oven and commit suicide oh but he doesn't support suicide
we had an article in october 2012 where he openly said that he wanted people to
kill themselves to make way for room on the highway
because the planet was overpopulated he said i'm consistently pro-death
he said let's kill the right people he said i'm for assisted suicide i'm for
regular suicide i'm for whatever gets the freeway moving
so six years ago he said he was for suicide
again and then he's saying he denies it today with sternovich well then i think
he ought to shove a gun in his mouth and blow his little ugly brains all over
the wall that he hates well i mean seriously
i mean you want us all to die how about you die the court emperor palpatine
no no no you will die
paul can you do it by the name give me a palpatine
no you will die amazing lucas you're awesome
you're coming up in the war room god bless you paul's coming up this is
dianne billard you owe the irs money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you
i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years
i've helped thousands and i can help you too i wrote the book on irs settlement
and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case
call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt
with the irs's new programs there's never been a better time to solve your
problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no
tax or my website danpillard.com it's a no-brainer a big
burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that
removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine
disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more
right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted
name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five
percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm
call or click 1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters dot com
that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y hunters anglers campers and
survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest
quality most versatile unique slingshots and slingbows on the market
at slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798
they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself
and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow
a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival
tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com
bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon
no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year
shelf life and protects the leanest thickest
center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the
pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon.com
ready to eat bacon.com
living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
the real drama can be found here in leilani estates
but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned
about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy
metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to
unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater
next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels
as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the pH of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate
a rainwater supply but more importantly a good water
filtration system will purify it we've taken thousands of years of
known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through
mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield
toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with
known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win
this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier
as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and
you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots
stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need
you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your
support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to
change our bodies with z-field info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios
you're listening to the alex jones show and now
your host paul joseph watson
we're live but it's the fourth hour of the alex jones show in the next segment
we're going to play a clip from steven crowder's youtube channel
basically he went out to an event he had one of these um
you know changed my mind event one of the leftist there
doxxed them tweeted out their location and then encouraged other people to
fire bomb their van because they're so tolerant peaceful and loving
so then they found this woman at the uh the same event i think or she had a
a boo that the same event that crowd was at
confronted her confronted the mob that surrounded her to try and get one of
them one of them to disavow the violence
not only did they fail to get them to disavow it they basically
huddled around them in a in a huge mob tried to intimidate them called them
nazis of course and completely justified it
again this is just the start of this violent rhetoric you get these uh
these doxxing incidents you get that many people i rate incited
and it could end in bloodshed as it already did with uh james t hodgkinson
shooting just over a year ago of course a minor miracle that nobody died and
attempted massacre of republicans by a far left extremist
radicalized by mainstream media propaganda
talking of mainstream media propaganda there was a new york time
timespiece today that trended on twitter this morning entitled
we have a crisis of democracy not manners well no you have a crisis of
butthurt because he still refused to accept the results of democratic
election and you're getting more desperate because
you see that trump's likely to win in 2020 the republicans now have a great
chance of holding on to the house in 2018
you've blown your 16-point lead the blue wave has turned into a drizzle
and now you're freaking out about it so they had this article
new york times trending article and down below right near the bottom of it it
said this quote she's trying to justify the
whole maxine waters thing basically agreeing that people should be confronted
in an intimidating way she said this the writer
i know of no left-wing publication that has run quasi-pornographic fantasies
about murdering political enemies really
really there was literally one just yesterday and we wrote about it up on
info wars dot com headline left-wing writer suggests
anti-trump protesters should carry out domestic terror attacks
now they got a picture of this guy he looked like he was completely out to
lunch he was wearing a batman mask looked like some kind of ginger
isis jihadist because i'm sure he's tolerant and peaceful and loving
a far-left columnist now this this was a website called splinter news
owned by univision the division of gizmodo media group so they bought out
gizmodo media group this splinter news was one of those websites formerly owned
by gizmodo it's now owned by univision communications
so it's a massive corporation owning this fairly sizable left-wing media
website and in an article entitled this is just
the beginning the writer hamilton knowl and writes this is all
going to get more extreme and it should
let me say that again this is why you wrote this is all going to get more
extreme and it should that's an open call for
extremism he went on to say that trump administration
officials should not be able to quote live their lives in peace
and what did he mean by that well he went on to say read an effing history book
read a recent history book the u.s had thousands of domestic bombings per year
in the early 1970s of course he's talking about
the weathermen underground domestic terror attacks carried out
by far left terrorist organizations including black panther organizations as
well so he's talking about making the lives of
trump administration officials uncomfortable
he's saying that things are going to get more extreme and they should
and then he talks about domestic bombings in the united states
gee i wonder what the connection is there can we put two and two together
he went on to say this quote the day will come
sooner than you all think when trump administration officials will lock back
fondly on the time when all they had to worry about
was getting hollered out at a Mexican restaurant
he went on to say when you aggressively eff with people's lives you should not be
surprised when they decide to eff with yours
so he's clearly putting it in the context of justifying encouraging some
would say even inciting domestic terror attacks
against either trump supporters or trump administration officials
he justified it by claiming that trump administration was implementing fascism
again going back to this idea of de-legitimizing dehumanizing people
for attack for violent assault by calling them Nazis
he went on to say the people who are responsible for what is happening are
not going to get out of this with their happy wealthy respectable lives
unscathed and the ones who make the laws are not going to like what happens when
America starts to regard them as the criminals
openly inciting potential attacks against trump administration officials
or trump supporters the context of that article
cannot be taken any other way and he hasn't come out as far as i looked on
his twitter an hour ago and disavowed it or walked it back or said
he's not calling for violence the article stands it's up on a major left
wing website owned by Univision so when the New York Times says
oh there's no left wing publication that's ever endorsed violence
against political enemies literally it happened
last night yesterday and there are numerous other examples of it but the
article's still up there and this this is the tone this is the
rhetoric these are the times that we're living in
absolute insanity we have a professor
University of Tennessee law professor glenn hall and reynolds who wrote an
article in the usa today saying what alex jones said on
sunday that we're already in a civil war albeit
low level but he said in an op-ed for usa today that america
is headed towards a civil war he asked the question in the headline
and then he says it's already begun those are his words
well hollywood has basically turned its products and its award shows into
showcases for the resistance americans are already sorting
themselves into communities that predominantly red or blue
so he said that the uh sarah hookaby sanders incident which again
you've probably seen this by now she wasn't just harassed in the restaurant
after she was harassed initially she left with her husband they went home
and her family went to a different restaurant and they were harassed too
so they're directly targeting people's families
even if the target of their anger is no longer present
which goes back to what peter fonder said oh by the way peter fonder
what is it now nearly a week since he said this on twitter
advocating hacking a government database a crime
advocating targeting and intimidating the children
of border patrol agents at their schools advocating putting
baron trump in a cage and making him get raped by peter files
do you think any of those violate twitter's terms of service yes
all three do clearly is he banned on twitter
no he wasn't even suspended for 24 hours he deleted the tweets he was back on
you know my lo got banned for making fun of a ghost busters movie
lifetime ban oh well if you want to put a kid in a cage to be raped by peter
files intimidate people's children hack a government database
no problem you don't even get a 24 hour ban
but again going back to this article this professor says that the civil war has
already begun because he said that civil society
is being eroded the polarization can partly be blamed on the
disintegration of churches organizations and neighborhoods
which previously helped people build social ties that transcended politics
so again he's talking about the atomization of society the fact that
nobody talks to their neighbors anymore the fact that fewer and fewer people
participate in civil society or go to church so they don't meet people they
don't have conversations even if they disagree politically
to kind of resonate and bond as human beings as Americans who all live in the
same country and should want the best for everyone
this is the alex germ show live fourth hour we'll be back in four wars
dot com
i had great results i lost 70 pounds my weight 265 and went down to 195 my doctor
told me if it works for you then do it a lot of people say to me how did you lose
the weight i said i take andrew 400 every day i'm
going to take it forever that was wal talking about andrew 400
now listen to what bob has to say when you listen to your radio commercials you
say that's not possible but since i've experienced it your commercial
aren't strong enough i am 76 and i've had a belly for way too long
my whole body is shrinking my energy level has gone up and don't think
difference is andrew 400 it's great stuff i tried other products and nothing
happened guys if you'd like to lose stubborn belly fat gain
energy and feel years younger try andrew 400 the safe natural and
affordable way to boost your testosterone go to andrew 400 dot com or call
888 400 0 4 3 5 888 400 0 4 3 5 andrew 400 dot com
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world
it's you that has defeated hillary and the globlest
it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
war and now because of their intensifying
censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos
articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to
the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter
we are the renaissance and we are winning info wars life is launching
its newest product we're really really proud of it
it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated
fibers uh from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for
regularity and so much more and it synergistically
works with our 50 billion live active culture
floral life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold
and the funguses in the gut so this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products you
get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get
high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these
products to you bodies sold out in a month
uh strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with
it's sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off
till it's sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber
get yours today info wars life dot com fueling your body is hard work
that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help
you fuel it right combine floral life everyday maintenance
and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
floral life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay
fueled all day these incredible formulas can help
keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age
and outside toxins there's no better time to try
floral life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body
don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
you're listening to the alex jones show
broadcasting live from the un stronghold austin texas you're listening
to the alex jones show and now your host paul joseph
whatson we're going to get to that steven crowded
clip here in a couple of minutes where basically they confront one of the
would-be leftist jihadist and it ends up in a complete
fast we're going to go to that here in a couple of minutes first i want to tell
you about the great specials available at info wars store
com which include all super blue fluoride free
products at 50 percent off that is massive you're going to get these
products anyway everybody's toothpaste surely
and we at the info wars team want you to try a powerful line of super blue
fluoride free products we've got the toothpaste the mouthwash the oral
spray and even a complete option that comes with
all the products and free shipping there's no better time to try it 50
percent off 50 half off the super blue fluoride free
toothpaste which is the classic fan favorite
experienced nanosilver and iodine at 50 off and if you want something of it
sweeter we've got a super blue bubblegum bubblegum
flavor and it's the perfect pig also 50 off
featuring natural oils and ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical time
super blue mouthwash will help supercharge your oral
health and mincey fresh breath and round out your daily routine
so we've got all that we've also got the silver immune goggle
and we've got the complete combo so you can get all those products
fluoride free free shipping 50 off we've stocked up on this fan favorite but
it's not going to stick around for long at those prices again
you're going to buy toothpaste anyway you're going to buy mouthwash anyway
so why not get them from us fluoride free at a massive
50 discount free shipping available right now at infowallstore.com
there you see some of the excellent 5 star reviews 4.5 stars out of 5 on the
bubblegum toothpaste absolutely huge people are
pleased with the product they're getting it they're stocking up right now
and for good reason it's 50 off there's the immune goggle too
five star reviews again half off free shipping available right now at info
wallstore.com please support this network today we
need it more than ever let's go to this Steven Crowder clip now
he had one of his events which is you know the famous change my mind events
when he was doxxed and basically threatened by a leftist who encouraged
people to go and fire bomb his van with him in it
and then they found this woman this tolerant leftist
at another event later on down the line and they confronted her
let's see what happened here it is
we were at the texas state democrat convention taping a fourth of july
theme to change my mind to be released on july 2nd when
we noticed a familiar face it's firebomb lady
that's the girl who posted our location in austin precisely and called for
people to firebomb our car and then doubled down with a second
post for additional domestic terrorism context so i decided to confront her
take it
how are you today quick question for you why would you encourage people to fire
bomb my van why would you do that
do you think that's appropriate to encourage people to firebomb my van
and hurt my crew when we're just expressing a difference of opinion
sorry could you repeat that why would you threaten to firebomb my van or
encourage other people to do it at first she just denied denied
good thing we brought a bristol board as a matter of fact we have your pictures
right here of your tweets of your posting our location right now let's
hold that for me there not kj so is that the way you deal with civil
disagreements i've heard a lot of people talk
about calls to civility with president trump and conservatives but what about
this what about firebombing someone committing acts of violence i would
never encourage acts of violence against you i don't want anyone to ever hurt
you nothing huh this is the tolerant left
no my feelings aren't hurt i just don't want to be firebomb really literally
have a place in today's political discussion wouldn't you say
why the eye roll you think it does have a player role
as long as it's the right target really no opinion in this all what if a
conservative what if donald trump were to encourage anyone to firebomb somebody
else well when they go to war that's what they're doing
we were not in war we were just having a discussion as we just did with three or
four democrats at a van literally said we need to kill uh the innocent families
so did he say that when did he say that but i didn't say that about my family
but i've never said that what he said what he said what if trump said this
do you condemn that uh no i think it's great you think you think it's great
so you're cool with firebombing people who've never committed an act of
violence just throwing strikes on children
this silly falls out right so this doesn't bother you
you're okay with encouraging violence against people i just want to make sure
what you are human right you are all human right
you do realize we're filming that's fine go ahead and film we have the right
to have help there is a human right yeah what about a van is not a life
what are the people in the van know
how dare is that human right no one's gonna speak out against this
how dare is a human right how dare is a human right
How dare is a human right?
So violence can't rule.
How dare is a human right?
Come on, men.
Let's not get violent.
How dare is a human right?
I can do this.
How dare is a human right?
I can do it all day.
You're disrespecting my flag by wearing it on your body.
Really?
What bothers me is encouraging acts of violence and acting like an animal.
How dare is a human right?
How dare is a human right?
You're the one who started the chant.
You started the chant.
What's the solution?
What's the solution?
What's the solution?
What's the solution?
What's the solution?
What's the solution?
Nonviolent speech.
You animals.
I'm just looking for one condemnation.
Anyone to have an opinion on encouraging acts of violence,
I discourage them across the board.
You're creating acts of violence against her by posting her face everywhere
and trying to get people to hurt her.
I've never done that.
What?
You're...
This is her asking people to bomb my van.
No, she didn't.
You put it on Twitter.
Bomb, van, fire, take care of it.
This was clearly an exercise in futility.
So they brought out the heavy artillery.
Stand up, fight back.
Good, good.
You're a very violent, angry little fella.
Stand up, fight back.
Thank you.
I see you're strong with the mob,
but you should be ashamed of yourself.
Stand.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
Stand up, fight back.
You missed it.
You missed it too.
One.
Stand up, fight back.
You're on beat.
You're all false.
Of course not.
Do you believe that all people, regardless of their race,
should have equal opportunities in this country?
Absolutely.
Nothing to say.
Just an apology would be nice.
Stand up, fight back.
You are a coward, though.
She ain't no woman a coward.
No woman a coward.
You're a coward, too.
Oh, thank you.
You're a coward.
I hope I'm saying you're all cowards.
You're the coward.
You're the coward.
We can see how big of a man you are.
You want to go to the restroom?
No, no, no, no.
Come on, man.
Let's stop being cowardly.
And then, of course, they called the brutal,
fascist, racist police who agreed with us that they were dicks.
Well, look, see, this lady encouraged acts of violence against me,
and so I just was asking her why.
And she started me down.
Look, that seems pretty reprehensible, right?
To post my location in our van in a bomb saying,
take care of it.
That's pretty bad, isn't it?
Yeah.
See that?
Anyone who's not with you thinks that's bad.
Hey, officer, this is conferring a lady who encouraged firebombing
against my car and asked her why she did that.
Don't worry about it.
But they had to ask us to leave anyway, which we did.
Unfortunately, there still seem to be some miscommunications.
Nazi, go away!
Nazi, go away!
It seems they're less offended by the Nazism than by the fact
that we had a better booth than them.
I can just forgot to check the floor plan.
Oh, well, as you can see on this channel,
my first choice is civil discourse.
But when you call people to act of violence, know this,
I will find you.
I will confront you.
And I will shame you.
America first.
Love the flow.
So there you have it.
Steve and crowd are confronting somebody who threatened to firebomb
or at least encourage others to firebomb his van.
And again, the whole narrative in the leftist media today
is, oh, the Tea Party stood up and confronted Democrats during
the Obama era.
Yes, and they did.
And it was very confrontational.
It was aggressive.
But if you want to talk about legitimizing violence,
you want to talk about a situation where, you know,
the New York Times is openly siding with this.
We had the whole punch in Nazi narrative for the past year plus.
Who's a Nazi, anyone who disagrees with you?
See how the slippery slope goes here.
We've got people openly now calling Trump a Nazi, you know,
shock horror, get a new insult.
Again, the lack of originality is tiresome to say the least.
But again, if you dehumanize somebody, if you dehumanize
tens of millions of American voters as Nazis,
and then encourage in-site violence against them,
as left-wing websites are now doing, owned by giant corporations,
that legitimizes it.
That's different from a few toothless hicks spewing death threats
against Obama on Twitter, you know, back in 2010.
Little bit different when it's being codified and legitimized
by the mainstream media.
When this hysteria is being whipped up every single day
by people on television with huge audiences still.
That's the difference.
They've legitimized it.
They've moved the Overton window so far left.
They've become so hysterical that it's now directly leading
to attacks on Trump supporters as it has for the past year,
and events like James T. Hodgkinson attempting to massacre people.
This is the Alex Jones Show Live in 4Wars.com.
We'll be back.
What we've learned was that there was, in fact,
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure
raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain
can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Infowarslife selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook
and transport food for you and your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need
for an affordable price with InfoWarslife selects storable foods.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia.
You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex. Hey.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when InfoWars and Prison Planet,
it was just blue text on a white screen
and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet.
And I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books
and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality, the Caveman,
the Real Red Pill, MycoZX body. It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much,
it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body,
you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God,
but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you,
the crew, and the listeners out there.
Okay, 1776 World War.
It is the final segment of the fourth hour.
War Room is coming up at the top of the hour.
We're going to go to this Conrad Black video here in a second.
Headline up on info was Conrad Black.
Trump is winning a bloodless civil war against the establishment.
But first, I want to read just a small passage from John Nolte's article out of Breitbart today.
Again, talking about why we're seeing this heightened hysterical rhetoric from the left.
Because again, as I pointed out, every time a leftist promotes extremism and violence,
as Splinter News did yesterday, and then the New York Times lied about it and said,
no left-wing websites ever doing this.
Literally, they did it on the same day.
Again, when they do this, it puts another reasonable-minded person off voting for Democrats.
This is not a vote-winning strategy to act crazy to throw your toys out of the pram
every time something doesn't go your way.
Get an actual platform like Trump got.
That's how he won the election.
Again, this whole crisis of democracy mantra.
The only crisis is within you and within your mindset and your narrative.
Because again, your harmful, intolerant ideology is being rejected by everybody.
This is what John Nolte said about it.
That's the article out of Splinter News yesterday,
where literally they talk about Trump administration officials should be glad
that they're only getting hollered outside restaurants
and basically saying that it needs to get more extreme.
Then he goes on to talk about domestic bombings.
Gee, what kind of connection is he making there?
But again, this is what John Nolte said about the situation in his article today.
He said, what the left and the media are doing is testing us,
testing how far they can go, how much we will take, how ugly they can get.
They're also hoping to normalize this violent behavior in the eyes of the public.
They want us to get as used to it to see it as the status quo.
So they're trying to normalize this.
Again, if they can normalize it that calling for violence is a legitimate form of political discourse,
what's the next stage?
Gee, I wonder.
He goes on to say the left cannot win at the ballot box.
Their media no longer have the power to persuade.
Their elected officials are completely out of ideas other than socialism.
So now they turn to violence.
And again, that's exactly it.
You talk about violent rhetoric during the Obama era.
I mean, it was there in the background, but it was nowhere near the levels we see now.
And it certainly wasn't being legitimized by centrist, by the mainstream media on the right.
If you want to talk about Fox News or however, like it is being legitimized by the big media,
by the hysterical media on the left right now.
But Conrad Black came out today in an interview, and I talked about this with Alex earlier.
This is a guy who was a former Bilderberg steering committee member.
Again, he was part of the elite.
At least he had one foot in the elite.
Conrad Black, former newspaper magnate.
He earned a bunch of papers around the world.
Big former globalist now apparently changed course.
He said that Donald Trump has launched a bloodless civil war against the establishment
and basically makes the point that he's winning is the clip.
What was needed was a bloodless civil war to clean up the Washington sleaze factory.
The entire government of the United States had become a shambles.
Let me remind you, in the previous 20 years, you had the greatest economic crisis since the 1930s,
brought on by bad American policy in both parties, in both branches of government.
You had virtually the entire conventional land forces capability of the United States militarily,
mired in the Middle East for 15 years in order chiefly to hand over the main influence over Iraq to Iran,
which is the last thing they wanted.
It produced this humanitarian crisis where millions of desperate people were scrambling for their lives
and turning up in the shores of Italy and into central Europe and so forth,
all caused by utter incompetence in American policymaking.
You had the decline of GDP per capita growth in the United States from 4.5% under Reagan,
3.9% under Clinton, 2% under George W. Bush, 1% under Obama.
The country was a pressure cooker.
Poverty went up.
Violence rose.
Discontent rose.
But our great national media in the United States didn't notice it.
And Trump said it is all rotten.
We've got to clean it all up.
Wall Street, Hollywood, the national media, the lobbyists, campaign financing,
all factions of both parties.
They're all useless.
We've got to get rid of them.
And he's doing it.
And it's a war.
It's a war.
And it's a war that he's winning right now.
And that's why you see the desperation, the flailing hysteria from the left
and this alarming uptick and violent rhetoric.
That's Conrad Black, a former Bilderberg member,
a former Bilderberg steering committee member laying it down the line
and actually coming over to the right side and pointing out that Trump is at war
with the deep state, with the establishment, and that he's winning.
And so the resistance, as they call it, which is now openly inciting harassment,
intimidation, and violent attacks, they're on the side of the deep state.
They're on the side of the establishment.
Trump represents the opposing force.
So that's the narrative we've known to be true all along.
That's what they've tried to hide.
Now Conrad Black pointing out the truth.
Again, I talked about it with Alex.
A lot of the people who were globalists, to some extent 10 years ago,
have now come across to the right side because people have chosen their side
and many have chosen wisely.
Let's move on to some global news now with the migrant crisis.
This is out of RT.
Headline helicopters, 100s of Austrian soldiers and police officers take part
in migrant deterring drills.
Hundreds of Austrian soldiers and police were involved in a border protection exercise
that simulated containing migrants with fears that neighbouring Germany
might begin to turn away new arrivals trying to cross their frontier.
So again, we've seen this massive uptick in the migrant crisis.
It's at least turning away the boats.
They're now going to Spain.
They're now going to France,
or at least trying to get there after they've adopted in Spain.
But now Austria have deployed 600 police, 400 soldiers,
and two Black Hawk helicopters in an exercise which simulated arrival
of hundreds of migrants on the country's border with Slovenia, local media reported.
A state that in the worst case cannot protect its borders loses its credibility.
Interior Minister Herbert Kickel of the far right, it says,
freedom party told reporters.
So again, they're expecting a new wave of migrants.
Austria has made this pact with other central European countries
to defend their borders.
The German interior minister is also on board with that idea.
Angela Merkel isn't as an internal civil war basically within the German coalition government
now, which could lead to the end of Angela Merkel's political legacy.
And Austria is ready.
They're preparing for it.
They're preparing for an invasion.
We saw the Croatian border video a couple of days ago
where they were chanting Alarakba trying to break down the border to get in there.
So as soon as one route gets shut off, another opens,
because we still have these turncoat governments that are betraying their people.
They see the border situation in Croatia where they tried to break through
while chanting Alarakba.
But some countries are finally enforcing proper border security
given the huge problems that this has caused in virtually every European country
that's accepted migrants over the past few years.
Because we had the Aquarius boat dock in Spain last week.
Soon as the migrants were sent to their holding locations in a town called Alacante,
the local population of students who had paid for their accommodation were told
they had 12 hours to get the hell out of there.
Get out, you're being replaced by these migrants.
And that's that.
We saw that in other countries.
We saw the video out of Italy with the old bed and breakfast owner
literally being almost turfed out of his own home,
ordered by police to allow migrants to stay there against his will,
literally requisitioning his property to place migrants in there.
And what results do we see from that legacy over the past three years?
Well, here's another headline.
40-year-old migrant arrested for murdering his 16-year-old teen bride in Sweden.
This was an Afghan migrant who was arrested in Iran.
Again, he escaped.
We saw that in Germany with the headline you just flashed up before
about the 14-year-old girl being strangled, raped and murdered in Germany.
He was an Iraqi migrant who escaped.
They managed to get him back and charge him.
Now an Afghan migrant has been arrested in Iran for murdering his teen bride in Sweden.
It was an international arrest warrant against the man who was taken back to Sweden
and will face trial for the murder committed in 2016.
The 40-year-old man should have been married to the 16-year-old girl Swedish media say,
in March 2016, the teen was murdered and her husband has been wanted since June that year.
They found her remains buried in a wood.
So yet another murder of a young teenage girl blamed on migrants in a major European country.
Because we had the whole narrative last week about,
oh, Trump's lying when he says that crime's risen in Germany.
If you'd have put the word violent or if you'd have put the word migrant behind the word crime in that tweet,
you would have been completely right.
Because as Reuters admitted, as numerous of the big publications admitted,
BBC admitted as you see there, the rise in violent crime,
the rise in political crime in Germany as well,
talking about attacks on Jewish people mainly,
can largely, in some cases, 90% of it be attributed to migrants.
That's why when Trump talks about Europe having huge problems,
as a result of open borders, he's exactly right.
Meanwhile in Italy, Italian Euroskeptic Coalition polling at nearly 60%,
Italy's new Euroskeptic Anti-Mass Migration Coalition continues to enjoy large support.
Now they've got up to 60% of the vote.
This is the new coalition government.
Liga alone were at 17% back in March.
Now they're at 29%.
They've almost doubled their support specifically as a result of Salvini enforcing proper border security,
turning away these votes and making Italy great again.
And that's what Donald Trump wants to follow with his legacy when it comes to the border.
That's going to wrap it up for the fourth hour coming up.
War Room with Owen Shroyer, breaking news at Infowars.com. We'll be back.
Now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Redzville has, but it's also got the boost edit.
Get the Real RedzPill Plus at Infoars.com.
I'm gonna make that vid now.
it, get the real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
You've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the info war.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the renaissance and we are winning.
