You know what I'm talking about, just let me know that you want to go to that whole
mile down the range, I got a lot of nice girls.
Well the globalist takeover of America and the world isn't going quite like it was supposed
to go.
In fact, their operations are getting blown and destroyed all over the planet.
They are viciously counter-striking back as the big red-blooded wave of pro-human
nationalism, populism and renaissance, the red blood that unifies us surges back into
the collective veins and arteries of the population of the world.
Life is coming back into what appeared to be the dead corpse being fed on by the globalist
who were able to consolidate incredible power, consolidate trillions of dollars while humanity
was asleep.
But now that they have an opponent, they don't know what to do.
I'm Alex Jones, it's Thursday ladies and gentlemen.
One of the 28th of June 2018 will be live here for the next four hours.
Roger Stone is going to be joining us with exclusive information about Ray and Rosenstein
clearly perjuring themselves in the ongoing hearings.
They've been caught red-handed before lying, just like McCabe lied to Congress and said
he wasn't involved in the program spying on the president.
It is simply incredible when you've followed what's really gone on, I just saw 15 minutes
ago live and they're watching it, barely get ready for the broadcast, I was glued to it.
We've got some of these clips coming up, we're grabbing them still as we speak.
We've got these individuals running around Rosenstein and others saying, oh we can't
answer it, no we have no knowledge of prior to June 2016 Trump being spied on.
And they've all been caught, it's in the text messages, it's on record that they were all
in there doing.
And he also says that his staffers are lying, that he never threatened them, Rosenstein
says that.
It's just incredible, I mean there's just solid gold in there proving unbelievable ongoing
perjuring.
Remember back when Cummings was testifying last year, three times I told you he's perjuring,
he's perjuring there, and now it's all come out that they're lying under a.
So it'll take some while to go over all this, but just what I watched this morning was unbelievable
lies.
You couldn't write the lies down fast enough, and these guys playing dumb as well.
So it's pretty amazing and oh Rosenstein knew nothing about them sending a Russian operative
that was one of their operatives who didn't even have a Russian name trying to give them
dirt on Hillary, he knew nothing about that, well guess what, they've been shredding documents,
they've been refusing to give them to Congress, now he's giving them some of them that said
there's more, oh we don't know where they went, oh they got sent off to the shredder.
He's talking about floundering and acting guilty, but trying to put on a little tough
guy attitude.
This is a sickening group of people, it's like McCabe said oh I'm against the whole
Russiagate thing, I know they did this, I'm not political, and then it turned out he was
running the whole thing, it's sick, and now even the leftist hill and others are saying
well get ready to be disappointed, there's really nothing there, there's nothing there
on the Trump side, but there's plenty, there's plenty there on the Democrat side.
So here's the bottom line, we have the globalist in total connection fits over the justice
leaving, and of course it was Roger Stone telling you that he would be leaving when
they released these final group of rulings that they just did yesterday, he's retiring,
giving the leftists the biggest fits of fear they've had yet, we're going to be going through
some of that, but here's the deal, Roger's getting on an airplane right now, he's off
in three hours, but I talked to him right before he took off, and I remember what he
and others told me back when President was just President-elect, and then when the Vegansi
came up about who Trump's main pick was, but then they came to the President and they
said sir, but he promised to go with the most conservative judge, we've got a computer program
that's going to decide that, so he said okay in round one we'll go with what the computer
picks, then round two we're picking somebody else and I know who it is, so I know who the
current pick is right now, we'll come back with that.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is, the real drama can be found
here in Leilani estates, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water, and we
need to be concerned about ash and acid rain, volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles,
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels, to find out we employed
a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH, what we learned was that there was
in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rain water, next we tested
the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within
safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels, as it turns out the filter
on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash
and acid rain can contaminate a rain water supply, but more importantly a good water
filtration system will purify it.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War.
The whole globalist program to sabotage free markets, to bring in global tyranny run by
mega corporations, using socialism and communism to domesticate populations, is being sabotaged
by the people of the world waking up, so their attempt to sabotage us has now been reversed
to a great extent, it's getting more intense every day, and the red wave of red blood,
pro humanity, pro free market, pro destiny is rising, there's not just a red wave here
in America coming, it's already hit many areas of the world, we're in a global war against
corporate global government, and if you read what the Financial Times of London says or
what Conrad Black says, former steering member of the Bilderberg group, or if you read what
Atlantic Monthly says or you read CIA reports that are restricted but not classified, they
now know globalists are losing, they are irrevocably in deep deep trouble, now they've still got
the trillions of dollars they stole, they can still engage in incredible mischief with
that, but the Bezos and the rest of the folks, Bill Gates is out there, better watch it,
because if they want to fight, you better believe they've got one, so a lot of really
exciting things happening and unfolding right now, and globalism was sold as this wonderful
system of everybody living in equality and transferring wealth to the third world, but
really it was a way to keep the third world controlled, drive down wages in the west,
and then play the third world off against the west for total economic and cultural domination
out of the clashing of civilizations, the UN, the IMF, the World Bank, would then come
in as the policeman of the world to stabilize the planet that they themselves had destabilized.
Now I've been telling people that for 23 years, because I read what Senator Barry Goldwater
discovered when he was in the classified hearings, I also read what Tragedy and Hope author
who was on the enemy side wrote an 1100 page book, and I read dozens and dozens of other
books, hundreds of other magazine articles from foreign affairs and others who thought
you were so stupid, who thought I was so stupid that they would have their own admitted world
government plan going on in plain view, but then if we criticized it, have ABC, CBS, NBC,
and then later CNN, MSNBC, say we were crazy.
Oh, I don't want Obamacare, it's a rip-off, you're racist.
I don't like the fellow-deserve being private, being about the law, you're anti-Semitic.
These are the talking points that they used for decades on everybody, like Ron Paul myself,
but it didn't work, ladies and gentlemen, it didn't work.
I mean, I remember 12 years ago, Drudge started linking to foreign newspaper articles about
Bilderberg, and our media was so controlled in the U.S. they would say it was insane
and didn't exist.
Now they had articles this year saying that Bilderberg is saving the world, that Bilderberg
tells the truth, that Bilderberg are the guardians of freedom.
That was in CNBC just a few weeks ago, that a private consortium of megamanks and ultra-rich
men meeting in secret to establish a world government taxation power that they're exempt
from is a good thing.
So we have absolutely ultra-massive awakenings happening.
It doesn't mean, though, that there's some utopia on the other side.
We've just got a better chance of building a better world and having prosperity and freedom
now because we're identifying the current global corrupt, kleptocratic, authoritarian,
austerity-based system with a goal of absolute total tyranny.
This is the reality, and the victory over Hillary, the main minion of the globalist
here in North America, the keeper of the secrets, the keeper of the corruption, and
her big foundation with $4 billion in it being used to pay everybody off to be part of this,
you could say that beating her in the campaign was one step in the victory.
But just as you, in the mythical Greek story of her head being severed, that is only the
first feat.
You then have to defeat the globalist kraken with the head.
But as a symbol of the globalist's failure, as a symbol of their media line that she'd
be the winner, as the symbol of them saying, Hillary must win or the domino's falling
to bring down globalism will be complete.
Work typally, Trump is now holding up the Gorgon head and all the corruption and all
the secrets and the entire global network tied into her as one of the top managers.
He now has the Medusin head to take on the kraken of the global network, the chai comms,
the unelected EU, Hollywood, all of it.
That's why we have to continue to use her and bring her up and show how evil she is
and bad and how she's a fraud and the corruption she was involved in, all of it.
Go back into the enemy's nest and her head is a blueprint to defeat them and to expose
their corruption and to have all the other dominoes fall in Washington, which will then
fall into London and Brussels and Paris, right through into the Vatican, right through into
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, right through back into Berlin and Madrid, right through across Moscow,
all the way into China.
It's happening, ladies and gentlemen.
And so Trump now, like Perseus, with the head of Medusa is ready to vanquish the globalist.
The archetype is true.
There's one more thing, though, the horse.
If Trump doesn't have the air, if Trump can't get his ideas across, he can't get up in
the titans face kraken and fry it.
And that's why we're in information war.
We've got to get Trump on the horse in the sky with the head and we'll win.
So there is your analogy of Trump and the Gorgon and the Kraken because, believe me,
they are releasing the Kraken.
Soros used to spend maybe a billion a year trying to overthrow governments and evil stuff.
He just put tens of billions in it is 18 billion a year.
He's now spending trying to vaporize everybody or just flame throwing everything.
The Communist Chinese are just throwing everything they've got at us.
I mean, it is this is World War four between the globalists and all their corrupt allies
and all the parasitic crap they do.
I mean, almost any evil you investigate, you run into Soros and the UN and the IMF and the
World Bank.
Like most of it was in the new session was in Bloomberg that most of the workers comp
and an ambulance chaser exploding tire stuff in the country is financed by George Soros
and already knew that.
But think about that.
Think about the level of that behavior.
He spends millions in Perk County to get certain sheriff selected.
He spends tens of millions to get state reps selected.
He has still spent a hundred million to get a congressman or woman elected and he's doing
it all over the world.
Now, continuing ladies and gentlemen, they are all in because they are losing.
We are winning.
Now coming up at the bottom of the hour, I'm going to tell you currently exclusively hiding
in plain view who is currently the person about to be nominated to replace the outgoing
Justice Kennedy.
And I was told this back at the time.
I know about what went on.
I know the inside baseball.
I was told all of it and a lot of it came out later in the news, but I'm going to tell
you who currently it may change, but who currently they are looking to put on the U.S. Supreme
Court.
It couldn't be a better person.
So I am very, very, very, very, very excited to be able to bring you this information.
You might want to call your neighbors, your friends, your family, tell them to tune in
to infowars.com or it's last show or on the Twitter or Facebook or YouTube feeds or on
local TV stations or radio stations where you're listening.
That's how we reach more people.
That's how we get around the censors.
That's how we get into the air with the truth.
That's our weapon system that we've severed the head of the globalist that we've taken
back control of the beachhead.
But now we've got to go face the larger global enemy that has been turned loose against us.
This was only step one, but severing the head of the deep state here is a weapon we
must use against the larger enemy, the chai comms, the devil pope, the E.U. and Hollywood.
That is the consortium that is the Kraken that we now face, newswars.com.
The
Kraken
Cook bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs,
so you wanna be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended
on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems
in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency,
get to goberkey.com.
We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Go Berkey.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee
can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years
perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques
and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you
with our immune support and wake up America
Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired
with the natural fertility of the land
to generate the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals
used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor
with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier
with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend
to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
InfoWars Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber
and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best
for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live active culture for a life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast,
the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You can get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You've found it.
The front lines of the human awakening.
It's the info war.
And now, Alex Jones.
The front lines of the human awakening.
The front lines of the human awakening.
It's the info war.
And now, Alex Jones.
Okay, I've been on the phone.
The folks basically asking me not to say
who Trump has picked is the Supreme Court
replacement for Justice Kennedy.
And I was told by multiple sources at the time about this
and I was not told this in confidence.
And we've even talked about this on air before.
But I've already told you that I'm going to say who is,
let's just say this then, in the front running.
Even though this individual's been told you're next.
You're the next one.
So I'm gonna talk about that in the next segment.
But this is big breaking exclusive news
if you weren't listening to the broadcast
when the last guy got put in.
Gorsuch.
So this will be exclusive.
This information is directly from El Presidente.
But then I made some phone calls and they were like,
well, yeah, that's the case.
But that could change definitely in the hunt,
in the front of the running.
But then why can't info wars have the big exclusive, you see?
But the establishment cannot stand that.
But I know there's a lot of smart people too that just say,
who knows how that fits into the calculus or whatever.
It's just very, very exciting things are happening.
And I couldn't think of a better Supreme Court person to be put in there.
I'm sure most of you already know who we're talking about.
A lot of you listen every day.
I mean, you know that we break literally most of the big news.
It's crazy.
We listed all three FBI moles inside the Trump campaign.
First by name.
We knew a year before who they were,
but didn't want to get sued by them.
So people that listen every day,
you know you get tomorrow's news next year's news today.
That said, we've got some very exciting video right now.
We've got it queued up from C-SPAN.
It's amazing.
And it's Gowdy, say what you want about him.
He's now saying, your investigation is hurting America.
It's a fraud.
This whole thing's a scam.
Jim Jordan annihilates the FBI director and his corrupt boss,
who thinks he's the head of the Justice Department, Rosenstein.
And both men are caught lying, especially Rosenstein,
perjuring themselves.
It's incredible.
I mean, it's just as bad as Comey.
It's amazing.
Oh, they know nothing about an investigation prior to June of 2016
when it's on record.
They all knew about the investigation going on in 2015.
They knew nothing about money being paid to Fusion GPS to make up the dossier.
They know nothing.
They know nothing.
It's like an episode of Hogan's Heroes.
I know nothing missing.
It's ridiculous.
That's why suddenly AP Reuters, The Hill, New York Times, Russia Gates over.
You're going to get disappointed.
It's over. It's done.
What are we going to do?
But don't think Mueller and those corrupt loons are going to throw the towel in.
They're just going to make up more crap.
But this is quite a spectacle.
Democrats saying attack the family, kidnap Trump's son, murder everyone, kill me,
kill more members of Congress, firebomb top show host, firebomb Stephen Crowder.
I can't even keep track of the crazy stuff they're doing now.
And physically, like trying to lynch mob me on the street while I'm trying to leftist area.
They're lunatics until you stand up and they start crapping themselves.
Like, go ahead, big, tough guys.
This isn't a simulation.
What do you think I'm playing games?
You think the president's playing games?
We're taking the country back.
So in this segment and the next, I'm going to play powerful clips from the hearings going on today.
And then the last segment of this hour is I want to make some phone calls in the breaks to get the best statement I can make on this.
Because what I said is accurate.
I know who the president told you are my next nominee after the first one.
And then the issue is I was never told don't talk about that.
But then it becomes, well, don't steal the president's fire.
The president doesn't care.
The president and his folks have told me attack, press the attack.
I can't be sitting here politicking, trying to always calculate every angle.
We'll see.
We'll see what I get into.
Right now, let's go to this quick clip from Fox and then we'll go to the actual clip from C-SPAN, the full clip here it is.
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein going before the House Judiciary Committee about the Department of Justice and FBI's actions in the run-up to the 2016 election.
GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy slamming bias within the agencies and demanding more transparency for the American people in their ongoing investigations.
Russia attacked this country, they should be the target, but Russia isn't being hurt by this investigation right now.
We are.
This country is being hurt by it.
We are being divided.
If you have evidence of wrongdoing by any member of the Trump campaign, present it to the damn grand jury.
If you have evidence that this president acted inappropriately, present it to the American people.
I think the best thing we can do is finish it appropriately and reach a conclusion.
And I certainly agree with you, sir, that people should not jump to conclusions without seeing the evidence.
I've been the victim of fake news attacks myself.
He's been the victim of fake news attacks himself.
He just lied to the president over and over again and knew about this whole thing and put a bunch of papers in front of him to change the command structure of the Justice Department to put him in charge of everything.
Rosenstein at bare minimum is a cowardly traitor to this country who hedged his bets with Hillary and then tried to cover it up.
But evidence shows they've still been continuing their criminal operations against the president and this republic.
And that has a name we've got to overthrow the vote of the country when you've got a president and people executing the Constitution faithfully.
It's called treason, brother.
So we're going to go to break.
We're going to come back with the full clips from the highlights of what happened today.
Now, that said, ladies and gentlemen, info wars is the tip of the spear recognized as the shock troops of the rebirth of pro human populist Western Renaissance ideas globally.
So therefore we're under a mitigated demonization attack.
You name it.
And that's why when you share the links, the videos, the articles, it is an act of resistance and victory over the enemy.
Of course, you're going to be attacked.
Of course, they're going to come at you.
We're not trying to be popular with the enemy.
We're trying to win.
And we are winning.
We're in the thick of the battle and must press the attack right now.
We're winning.
They're scared.
They're throwing everything they got at us.
They could still win if we don't press the attack.
That means go full out.
That's what we're doing.
I'm trying to expand.
I'm trying to pull out here and they know it.
I need fuel and I make it easy.
Fuel, energy symbols in this world is money.
And when you buy fluoride free high quality toothpaste, you need or any of the 80 plus great supplements we have or books or T shirts or films or all sorts of great preparedness items, thousands of great items.
And in foreshore.com, you are fueling one of the main information warfare batteries, one of the main guns that is smashing enemy emplacements and burning them to the ground right now.
So if you want to crush the globalist, you want to continue to win, win, win, win, win and get tired of winning and see the whole culture turn around.
Your kids futures be secured.
Communism finally destroyed.
Life is into technologies released.
If you want it all, then you've got to fund those that are willing to hit the bar bar first.
Infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. We've got huge sales, 50% off the high quality toothpaste right now.
33% off the sleep aid knockout that's the best seller.
The Alexa Pure Breezes, all of them red wave worldwide.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line.
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles,
Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest,
most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
There are 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
President Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what he doesn't do that he's mean as a Wolverine.
It's 11.59 at Radio Free America and this is Uncle Sam with Music and the Truth Until Dawn.
John has a long mustache. John has a long mustache. It's 12 o'clock American, another day closer to victory.
And for all of you out there on or behind the lines, this is your song.
But they took a lot of people away. People that they thought were going to make trouble for them.
People that had guns and things they wanted. They just took them away.
Where?
We had education camps that they call it.
I have decided we really need camps for adults.
And we need a lot of camps that you all run. I mean really.
All persons of Japanese descent were required to register. Now they were taken to race tracks and fairgrounds where the Army almost overnight had built assembly centers.
I'm a sorry citizen. I refuse to recognize you guys.
What kind of a situation in the U.S. would you see that happening?
I mean we've got a lot of Constitution lists and a lot of people that it starts out with.
Plus you have a lot of people that are coming out of the military that have the ability and the knowledge to build IEDs and to defeat law enforcement techniques.
These people are radicalized and they don't support the United States and they're disloyal to the United States.
It's our right and our obligation to segregate them from the normal community.
This is what we're doing here and let's not kid about it. We're building a domestic Army because the government is afraid of its own citizens.
But you're gunned down really?
Rallying Patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty. It's Alex Jones.
Are you some kind of a Constitutionist?
Overage!
So these people who hold themselves out to be patriots are not. They're nothing more than domestic terrorists.
If you are receiving this transmission you are the Resistance.
A friend that Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what he doesn't do that he's mean as a Wolverine.
Wolverines!
No weapon formed against the shell prosper.
You know the left attacks me and they go, oh you're now for the military and for the police.
You always hated them and you were the big police state guy.
No, I was against the left and the globalist and the Ford Foundation and the Southern Poverty Law Center with the training manuals, with the video that police and military sent us.
Because they cared. Being trained that America was bad, that the Bill of Rights is bad, that George Washington is bad, that Free Market is bad and that gun owners are going to have to be put in FEMA camps.
Now you just heard Wesley Clark from CNN four years ago saying segregate Constitutionists.
Well guess what you did.
20 years ago a lot of the police and military were buying it. Not all of them, but 20, 30%.
But then when you turned up the heat with Obama and openly said the UN is going to run the police departments and we're going to take the guns, the police, the military.
A, weren't anti-American at their base and knew that was wrong.
But B, they also knew that's a suicide mission. What type of crazy crap is that?
Why do you got us training to take on people saying we're constitutionalist? Don't take my farm. Don't take my land.
Because that's what the training was for. And you idiot globalist took this broadcast and would tell the military and police, do not listen to this.
This is the enemy. He says he wants to kill you and they would tune in here the complete opposite.
And so now they try to spin that whole thing around.
They want control of the police and military to carry out tyranny like they do in Cuba or Venezuela or North Korea.
Or like the EU's doing. That's not what we're talking about. They get the police through a lot of bad stuff. Yeah.
Are the police perfect? Absolutely not. The point is there are police. It's our military.
We're taking it back from the globalist. They don't know what to do. They are scared.
And we're taking the FBI back and we're taking it all back.
Think about them saying he's as mean as a wolverine on Don Lemon's show, the old prune, Dan Rather.
Think about him. They're the ones saying kill Trump's family. Trump's turning the economy on, being nice, bringing folks together.
But what he is, is tough. He doesn't roll over when you attack him, you bullies.
Then you act like, oh, he's so uncivil. They're so mean. No, we've been putting up with your bullying and your lies forever.
And we are done. And we're proving that you had us under suppression.
We just took America back up to the surface. Our listeners, Trump, all of us, the patriot movement, worldwide.
We're the leaders. We proved we were right. We're already turning it around instantly.
We're like giving oxygen to somebody that's been trapped under water.
Or water to somebody that's been in this era desert for three days.
And people know they're like, oh, oh, it's just great air. I can breathe. Oh, water. Thank you. Wow.
And it's like, whoa, yeah. And then the globalist go, we're going to wreck America and burn it and have a depression on TV.
People go, wow, Alex Jones always said you wanted to make us poor. Yeah, yeah, they're scum.
We got a bunch of these clips. Let's get the trick out of you.
We got Jim Jordan and then Roger Stones joining us to walk us through who is the number one pick for Supreme Court Justice.
I mean, he's been told you're it second round.
But we're just going to say he's in the running at the front pole position.
But he hadn't crossed that line yet.
Because we don't want to box El Presidente in.
But he almost always does what he says he'll do, right?
So I think about a 95% chance of judge coming up next segment.
Let's go ahead and go to Frank out of here.
The chair recognizes the gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. Gowdy for five minutes.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Russian investigation has been going on for almost two years now.
Special counsel's investigation has been going on for over a year now.
For most Americans, it's important to know what Russia did to our country in 2016 and with whom, if anyone, they did it.
When a foreign state interferes with our democratic electoral process, it should be chance of a lifetime.
Or law enforcement agent to investigate that.
Except, apparently, the one that was actually picked to investigate it.
That was Peter Strzok.
FBI agent Peter Strzok was picked to lead the FBI's investigation into what Russia did in July of 2016.
It was a counterintelligence investigation begun in late July 2016.
And he was leading it.
And at about the exact same time he was picked to lead it.
This dispassionate and fair FBI agent was calling Trump a disaster destabilizing for the country.
I'll leave out all the F adjectives he used to describe that.
I'll just go with disaster and destabilizing.
At the same time, his FBI lawyer or girlfriend, Lisa Page, was telling him he was meant to protect the country.
This neutral, dispassionate FBI agent said, I can protect the country at many levels.
At the same time, Peter Strzok, who was picked to objectively, fairly, neutrally look into the Russian investigation,
was talking about an insurance policy with Andy McCabe and Lisa Page in the event Donald Trump became the president.
All of this was happening at the same time Peter Strzok said he could smell the Trump support in southern Virginia.
All of this was at the same time that this FBI agent said a Trump presidency would be effing terrifying.
And that it will never happen.
No, no, we'll stop it.
We'll be back.
So while investigating.
He's very powerful at the end.
And we got Jim Jordan.
But remember though, he doesn't even get into it.
Strzok covered up Hillary and Russia and uranium-1.
Strzok needs to be going to prison for life if he's lucky.
Seriously, this guy would overthrow the will of the people and stop our Republic coming back and screw our children's futures over.
Good God.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfoWarsLife created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at infowarsstore.com.
Real Redbill Plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse, pregnant-one product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful pregnant-one base, the Real Redbill, will quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Redbill has, but it's also got the boost in it. Get the Real Redbill Plus at infowarsstore.com.
It is well-known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Resistance to pirates is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
It is phenomenal how much Trump has been delivering on his promises and how the world is turning around.
The globalists are hell-bent on stopping the American and global recovery. They admit from Yonker at the EU to Bill Maher on HBO that they want to crash the U.S. economy to teach Trump supporters a lesson.
Talk about Hitlerian. This is unbelievable the period of history we're in.
Well, I remember back when the president got in and then there was a Supreme Court vacancy, I remember that it was in the news some that Andrew Napolitano was in the running.
But then later I learned from inside sources, not just Roger Stone, that Trump used a big computer program and worked with some big study groups to look at who had the most conservative federal voting record
because he promised to go with the most conservative judge and some of his experts argued, well, that's not Napolitano because he was a state judge.
Yes, he's very conservative on air. Yes, he's a very smart guy, but we're talking about federal judges up front right now.
Wouldn't it be best to go with a federal judge first and that you said, okay, I'll do that so I can technically say I've appointed the most conservative person on the bench currently
who has a bigger, longer record. But a good friend, Andrew Napolitano, he is going to be at the front of the running on the next round.
In fact, it was more specific than that. I asked Roger at the time if that was accurate. He's very close friends with Napolitano because they're their best friends.
And he told me some stuff. Now, to pay before I went on air, even though I thought Roger was on a plane, he was just getting on one,
I called Roger to see if I could say what I was told from the other sources, even though they didn't tell me this in confidence.
In fact, I talked to another individual that talked to Napolitano and I'm going to leave it at that. And he said, yes, indeed, I was told that.
But then there's the different angles of we don't want to box the president in saying that Napolitano is who he said will be his next nominee, but that's what he was told.
Now, does that mean he's in the pole position in first place? Because if you start off in first place, there's kind of this metaphoric, metaphysical thing where it's easy to fall back.
If you're seeing a starting in first place, let's just say he is at the very front of the pack here. And I think the very best person for a lot of reasons.
His cell phone's about to die. He's going to get home and join us via Skype in about an hour. But Roger Stone, flesh this out for folks as best we can.
Some people are world exclusive here. A lot of this is inside baseball. I was not told this in confidence, but I still called you and brought up my sources because you had told me similar things and said, do you think we should roll this out?
You know, Alex, everything you just said is absolutely accurate. We know that Judge Napolitano is a personal favorite of the president.
President describes him as the one judge who makes federal law understandable and the Constitution understandable. The argument against him in the previous round was that he was a state judge.
By the way, Felix Frankfurter was a state judge. That is really of no consequence.
The president did feel in the first round that he had to go with a list that had been recommended by the Federalist Society. Napolitano was not on that list, although he certainly could have been based on qualifications.
Having now fulfilled that commitment, I don't believe the president, or I don't know, but I'm not sure the president will feel that he must select from that list again, particularly as long as his nominee is a solid conservative.
I think Napolitano is very, very much in the hunt. I think he was the president's emotional choice for the previous nomination.
And it would be a great statement because the judge is a great conservative, but he's also a great libertarian, very much pro-freedom.
So I'm optimistic. I think that the left will drive him as a box talking head, but he is, by any measure, brilliant. And I know he has the high regard of the president.
I don't want to get into too much of the inside of tales, but just specifically, he's at the top of the list this round.
Judge Andrew Napolitano is currently at the top of the list. How do we make sure he stays at the top and gets in there despite the leftist, globalist bullying?
Anybody that's really good, that's who they're going to fight, just like they fought Trump getting into office.
Well, if you're a believer, as I am, that Andrew Napolitano would be a great Supreme Court justice, you should reach out for the president.
You can call the White House Switchboard where they're set up to take messages from the American people. 202-456-1414, 202-456-1414.
Flooding the White House Switchboard with supportive calls would be very helpful. Keep it short, keep it respectful, keep it real.
We're not talking about manufacturing calls. We're talking about individual info warriors calling in to let the president know how they feel.
That's right, getting a jump on the leftist, globalist media who is going to immediately go and dig back into the news and remember when we actually already settled this on air.
So that's why I'm not giving out any secret information that he is the front runner. Basically, oh, yeah, everything vets out. You're it next round.
And I can see how the first time go with the whole computer-generated, most conservative federal judge voting record, but he also has a very conservative record at the state level.
And as you said, there have been many top Supreme Court justices. You name it, that were state judges.
Yeah, that's no disqualification, to say the least. So it would make a strong statement, particularly in view of the president's recent position that he will support federal legislation to support state legalized medical marijuana position that Judge Napolitano also supports.
He is not a Bush conservative, although that's kind of an extra more.
Wouldn't you call him a nationalist, libertarian, pro-american, a populist?
A libertarian than that, but on law and order issues, certainly he's a hardliner, but he's also a supporter of civil liberties, a supporter of civil rights.
So he's really a constitutionalist?
Without any question. And he's a friend of the show. He is just a solid, solid guy. He's the best possible nominee for the president.
Well, Trump also knows that it was Napolitano and you and I and others that first exposed the illegal spying on the president and who'd been proven right over and over again.
He knows how smart Napolitano is, not just on the law, but wide-ranging. I've had dinner with him many times. I know you're best friends with him. He's super smart about everything.
Well, he called that exactly right. The fact that the British were conducting surveillance on Trump so as to keep the hands clean of John Brennan and Deep State.
He was widely derided for that at the time he said it. Of course, it's now been proven to be absolutely correct.
Well, get back to your studio and let's get you on Skype to cover the incredible hearings you got brought up a bunch.
I know right off the top of my head, four or five lies that Rosenstein told the Congress just in the testimony I've seen.
It's pretty incredible, but you've got Trump and all these candidates, he backed, winning, validating him.
You've got all these great things happening now with the Supreme Court. You've got the Supreme Court ruling on Trump's side this week.
I mean, this has got to be horrifying, the authoritarian left right now. They're just apoplectic.
Well, and it's time for the president to fire Rosenstein. He has caused it as never before.
Well, Gowdy even got off the fence and said, look, you're wrecking this country. This investigation is killing this country.
Trump's not against the country. There's no evidence. If you don't have evidence to indict his ass with a grand jury right now, then I say shut it down.
I mean, that's got to really get to him.
All right. Well, I look forward to joining you by Skype shortly.
There goes Roger Stone. Thank you very, very much, Roger.
So there you got the exclusive that was never in the news that it was in the news that he was in the running, but specifically Trump Tower.
You are going to be my next nominee.
So we'll see what happens with that, because things can change, but the president almost always does what he says he's going to do. I give him about a 95% accuracy rate.
Hillary about a 5%.
So there you go. Very exciting. Again, just because people are awake now, they're involved, they're focused.
Okay, we got a ton of news so much. I can't even get to it right now. We're going to just all coming up next hour.
Totally insane amounts of just unbelievably critical information. Hotep Jesus, really great smart guy is going to be popping in on the broadcast.
Lionel is going to be getting in. He's a former prosecutor. He'll have a lot too.
Please, whatever you do, spread the live video links. Tell folks about the local radio station you're listening to.
Spread the articles, the videos. That's how we're going to win, because they are really censoring the web ahead of 2018.
Like never before, they think that's going to have them win, but people power can overpower them.
We also need financial funding. We'll make it easy with great products.
Our super blue, super high quality, colloidal silver, iodine based, fluoride free toothpaste is available 50% off right now at infowarstore.com.
33% off knockout sleep aid, $200 off on the air purification systems. It's all there and it makes it all possible.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when info wars and prison planet.
It was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the page on my dial up into that.
And I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration of survival shield.
And since then I'm on the X2, the super male vitality, the caveman, the real red pill, micro ZX body. It's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there.
Yeah, 1776 World War.
You are the info war.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email.
So there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
So bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
So, Trump, exclusively we just broke down last segment, told Judge Aaron Napolitano that he saw him as the leader of the PAC or the person that he was intending to dominate in the second round of Supreme Court appointments.
And we've been sitting on that for a year and a half. Now you've just heard it here exclusively.
And you see the economy coming back and so many good things unfolding, so many great things that are going on.
And the globalists just don't know what to do.
So the deep states answer is removed from before they get even better because the public will learn that they'd been artificially suppressing things.
So I'm going to play a breakdown of this and then come back with the powerful clips I haven't gotten to yet of Rosenstein and the FBI director being grilled.
We'll be right back.
I was told that Trump would never win office. And I told you that was a lie. I told you it was fake polls.
And then I was told over and over again he'd be removed. He'd never be seated as president. They would take the delegates.
And then as soon as that failed, even though they'd been all over the news promoting it, they said, oh, actually, we never said we were going to keep Trump from having his delegates seated.
And the Nancy Pelosi's daughter went on TV and called for my arrest on Fox News and made up lies about me that I threatened her.
How do you threaten the dead dog, a rotting soulless corpse?
You don't.
We have the usual suspects, two different former CIA directors coming out over the weekend and saying, we're going to call for the 25th Amendment to be implemented to unseat the president for dereliction of duty and incompetence of mental illness.
The mentally ill person that never ran for office and beat you and that turned the economy around and did all this and got peace deals, right?
There's the article from The Hill, ex-CIA chief calls on White House cabinet to revolt against Trump and remove him from office.
Insurrection by GOP leadership inner circle necessary to stop president, he says. And who is he? He's the Wahhabist, Brennanite, who in college admitted he was part of the Communist Party.
The CIA said, well, my God, let's put you at the top. He's got clapper behind him calling for the same garbage and other former CIA directors as well.
And they want the 25th Amendment implemented to remove him from office and they want it done now, post-hace. They want it done as soon as possible.
But here's the thing, they've been pushing this.
So the FBI people, I'm going to tell you, are ticked and they're going to be saying, I guarantee it, you think you can push us off this because you can try to intimidate the director?
You better think again, Mr. President, you've been around for 13 months. We've been around since 1908. I know how this game is going to be played. We're going to win.
We're reading it in the Financial Times of London, New Yorker Magazine, New York Times, Atlantic Monthly. These are establishment publications. They're like, we're ending the family. We're going to savage the U.S.
China has 97% of the rare earth minerals. The U.S. will never come back. Lloyd Blank flying before he got kicked out of Goldman Sachs is like, I was just in China.
They've got 10 times infrastructure trump. You'll never bring America back. These are in tweets.
God, these people like breathlessly, we'll get you people. And it's like, what did we do to you?
But America is the big enchilada. It had half the wealth in 1955. So they parlayed it into global corporate power. So if you're going to screw America over, why not get in a culture of hating?
They're not like, wow, we're bleeding the country dry. It was a great, beautiful lady, but we're sacrificing her for our global power.
No, they're too big of cowards to admit they're doing it. So they decide to hate it.
And that's what I want you to understand. Trump doesn't hate America.
And so he's like, you see these speeches and these are real numbers. You see them. They don't even debate things.
He's like, Canada has a 270% dairy tax and we have zero. Trump goes, okay, I'll put 100% on them.
And they go, oh my God, you backward hateful person. He's like, wait, you got a 270.
270. You'll still have a hundred. I mean, if anything, Trump's being too soft, but he knows he could destabilize things.
So he's just like, hey, China, you got a $900 billion trade deficit. We'll do 50 billion. Just pay it and promise to start taking some of our cars and I'll leave you alone.
And China goes trade.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
In 2004, Al Gore said that by 2016, the entire Northern Iche sheet would be gone in winter and summer.
Well, we're in the summer right now. We're going to show you the sideline images and everything coming up.
Arctic Ocean, almost totally ice covered.
In fact, it's the highest level of ice ever recorded in the summertime and during the winter, the Northern Passage is completely open.
Just everything these liars put out is total horse manure. That's coming up in the next segment.
I remember back when Al Gore and Hillary and all them were saying that they were buying $20 million, $40 million houses, remember?
Right on the beach in Malibu and stuff.
And they were saying, they'll be, you know, water flooding inland. We're all going to die. Total horse manure.
That's coming up. But oh my gosh, Dan rather, they've had him crawl out of the grave.
And don't say crawl out of the grave because he's old. Trump's like alive and vibrant, like a golden toad baby or something.
But then you've got rather the old fake newsman climbing out of his hole saying that, well, in fact, let's queue it up.
The Trump is like a mean Wolverine.
No, you're the mean Wolverines trying to destroy the country, but he'll stand up to you and fight you mean as a Wolverine.
Here it is.
Question, Don. I think historically, looking at the whole sweep of American history, there was some very nasty periods of insubility in the 1880s, for example, in the 1920s.
But no, I don't think we've ever seen anything completely like this.
And part of the reason is that whether he is or is not in inside himself, that President Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what he doesn't do, that he's mean as a Wolverine.
And we've never had a president who had that reputation.
Reputation to presidents who are not very good, presidents who broke the law in the case of President Nixon.
We've never had something like, never had a crazed, evil, chai-com-owned media trying to destroy the country and the family.
And then somebody stands up to you and you can't stand it.
You go, quit being mean, quit being mean when you're all calling us all Nazis and saying attack our families.
And then you're on Soros the Nazis payroll.
You're a joke, rather.
You and Don Lemon on a crawl in the same grave together.
All right, politically, not physically, obviously.
The worms will think you tasted terrible.
Let's go ahead and go to Jim Jordan today, grilling a Rosenstein. Here it is.
I recognize the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Jordan.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Rosenstein, why are you keeping information from Congress?
Congressman, I am not keeping any information from Congress that it's appropriate.
In a few minutes, Mr. Rosenstein, I think the House of Representatives is going to say something different.
I don't agree with you, Congressman. I don't believe that's what they're going to say.
And if they do, they'll be mistaken.
I think in a few minutes, the House of Representatives is going to go on record saying you haven't complied with requests
from a separate and equal branch of government that you haven't complied with subpoenas,
and you got seven days to get your act together.
I think that's what's going to happen in a few...
That's not Jim Jordan. I think that's the majority of the House of Representatives.
In just a few minutes, I think that's going to happen.
And I want to know why you won't give us what we've asked for.
Sir, I certainly hope that your colleagues are not under that impression.
That is not accurate, sir.
It is accurate. We have caught you hiding...
Mr. Chairman, can we allow the witness to answer?
Mr. Chairman, point of order. We can go to Mr. Jordan's press conference and listen to him,
but we came here to hear from the witness.
The time belongs to the gentleman...
Mr. Rosenstein...
Can we allow him to answer?
We have caught you hiding information...
You're not allowed to answer.
He will be permitted to answer when Mr. Jordan...
Why do we have them here?
You're allowed to answer.
Why are they not allowed to answer?
The gentleman is out of order. The gentleman from Ohio is recognized.
Mr. Rosen, let me make this one, but then I'll let you answer.
Let me make this one point where we've caught you hiding information.
Then you can answer.
Why did you hide the fact that Peter Struck and Judge Contreras were friends?
Why did you redact that in the document you gave to us?
Peter, I mean, Judge Contreras is kind of important.
Finds a court judge.
More importantly, just as importantly, the judge that heard Mike Flynn's case.
Why did you try to hide that from us?
Mr. Jordan, I appreciate you giving me the opportunity to respond.
I've heard you make those sort of allegations publicly on TV.
I got the right answer.
Mr. Chairman, he should be given the opportunity to answer.
Hello, Mr. Jordan.
I am the Deputy Attorney General of the United States.
Okay?
I'm not the person doing the redacted.
Yeah, bull.
I'm responsible for responding.
You ran the whole stinking thing.
I'm a team with me, sir.
Wow, they put you in there.
It's a fraction of the team that's doing this work.
And whenever you brought issues to my attention,
I have taken appropriate steps to remedy.
Bull.
So your statement that I'm personally keeping information from you,
trying to conceal information.
You're the boss, Mr. Rosenstein.
That's true.
That's correct.
My job is to make sure that we.
Mr. Rosenstein is on record for months,
for six months, not releasing the documents.
And when he does, it's only part of it.
He goes, he doesn't know where the other stuff is.
He just said, why aren't you giving us the information under the law?
We're supposed to get it.
And he's saying, I haven't.
He's lying to us like he thinks he's a God and we're an animal.
Let's go back to this little piece of crap.
And my job is to make sure that we respond to your concerns.
We have, sir.
Now, I've appointed Mr. Loush, who is managing that production.
And my understanding is it's actually going very well, sir.
Oh, I appreciate your concerns.
And I think the House of Representatives is going to say otherwise.
But you're used to this to attack me personally.
Why did you?
I was on the wrong.
Point of order, Mr. Chairman.
May the witness be permitted.
It's not personal.
It's not personal.
Gentlemen will suspend.
The witness is going to have an opportunity to say whatever he wants at the end of
Mr. Jordan's five minutes until the.
It is not personal.
By the way, ABC News is reporting.
It's not personal.
Pause real quick.
ABC News is now reporting that they're moving for impeachment of Rosenstein.
Man, I tell everybody knows America is coming back and the cabals that have sold this country
out.
You are in trouble.
House Republicans just escalated their war with the Justice Department voting to point
out that Rosenstein has refused to release the documents, just as you heard Jordan saying
they would.
And now they're moving towards his impeachment.
That means that Congress is removing him, not the president.
If the president won't do it, Congress will.
More than one way to skin a cat, isn't there, Mr. Rosenstein?
Let's go back to it.
Information.
Why did you tell Peter Struck not to enter our questions yesterday?
When I asked, when I asked Peter Struck, if he'd ever communicated with Glenn Simpson,
he gave us the answer.
He gave us dozens of times on advice of FBI counsel.
I can't answer that question.
Why couldn't he answer that question?
Mr. Jordan, I appreciate your sincere concerns, but I didn't get Peter Struck any instructions.
If there was some problem with the instructions he had, I'll be happy to look into it.
I'm going to get you up there, Mr. Jordan.
When you find some problem with a production or with questions, it doesn't mean that I'm
personally trying to conceal something from you.
It means we're running an organization that's trying to follow the rules.
Oh, yeah.
It was interesting when I asked him if he'd ever talked to Bruce Orre, he said he had.
He said he had three times in 2016 and 2017.
Then I asked him, have you ever talked to Nellior?
And he said, no, I haven't.
I said, well, why can you answer that question?
Because Nellior worked for Glenn Simpson, worked for Fusion.
He could answer that question, but he couldn't answer because FBI counsel told him he couldn't.
He couldn't answer the question whether he'd ever communicated with Glenn Simpson, a journalist.
And of course, then it gets to the questions when we come back up and play more.
Who is it on the fake FISA warrants names you won't release?
Who is it that directed you to do the investigation?
Who is it you're covering for?
And we know the name Loretta Lynch.
Oh, yeah.
And then who gave Loretta Lynch the order?
Barack Hussein, long legged Mac Daddy, Obama.
For Hillary in a political campaign to stop Trump being elected and then to try to get him removed.
You talk about criminal racketeering treason against the voters, the people, the Providence of the U.S.
You guys are in deep doo-doo, as they say.
Going back to the subject when we return.
Infowars.com, news wars.com, tomorrow's news today. The destiny of freedom. If you take it in your hands and if you take the information and you move it forward, don't forget.
We have 50% off on our entire lineup, super blue, four-eyed three, colloidal silver, iodide quartered by toothpaste.
That supports the broadcast. Take advantage of the specials. They have to end soon.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon? Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-Berkey.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price. The Fox Carambit knife, finally available in the U.S. The Fox Carambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense, and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to TheUltimateKnife.com. Truly the best knife you will ever own, and only available at TheUltimateKnife.com. Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping. Get TheUltimateKnife at TheUltimatePrice at TheUltimateKnife.com.
This knife is made from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With adequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Over 70 cable stations and simulcast on the internet in every format we can find.
From message in a bottle to global satellite transmission, this is the info war. I am Alex Jones, commissioned by duty and justice, and then recommissioned by the president to take action against the globalist and to cover the topics others won't,
to tell the savage truths, to break the ice, to blast through the enemy's defenses, to make it safe for others to come out with the hard truths.
We're here, tip of the spear. The tip of the spear. Many claim to be it. This is the tip of the spear, recognized enemy of the globalist.
And that is not a happy time, happy making time, like George Soros talked about on 60 Minutes, rounding up Jews. It was happy making time, exhilarating, best time of my life.
Those are quotes. This is not happy making for us. This is duty. And I got to tell you, all we've been through to begin to see the worm turn, begin to see victory.
There's just, there's a God above, and it doesn't mean we're offering some utopia. Justin, what Lord Acton said, and what Thomas Jefferson said, and what many other famous historians said in different ways,
that all that evil men in tyrants need to flourish is that good men do nothing. And that's what this comes down to right now. It's another British historian that said it almost the same, but many of these truths have been quoted different ways.
We're here. So Jim Jordan is really on fire, tearing in to Rosenstein, catching him in all these lines, and catching him in coverups. And Rosenstein saying, I'm not blocking any documents. Well, the house just voted.
Right after Jim Jordan said they were, he knew the vote time, put it back on screen. So I guess Jordan couldn't leave for the grilling to even go vote. Let's put it on screen.
They voted that they are suppressing it, that they are going to compel him, that they're going to move with impeachment. Go ahead and scroll down. We've got the quote that I read during the break.
So now it's their final warning before they nail him to the wall. 226 votes, 183.
Now on Thursday, the battle escalated with a vote by the full House representatives on a resolution to insist DOJ comply with the House subpoenas and other document request by July 6 resolution passed on party lines.
Let's go ahead now, ladies and gentlemen and go back to Jim Jordan grilling Rosenstein and catching him in a bunch of whoppers.
He couldn't answer the question whether he'd ever communicated with Glenn Simpson, a journalist.
Why couldn't he answer that question?
Mr. Jordan, I appreciate your saying it isn't personal. Sometimes it feels that way. How do I know, sir? I mean, you interviewed Mr. Struck. I didn't.
It works for you. It doesn't work for us.
There are 115,000 people who worked for me, sir.
Mr. Rosenstein, did you threaten staffers on the House Intelligence Committee? Media reports indicate you did.
Media reports are mistaken.
Sometimes, but this is what they said, having the nation's number one law enforcement officer threatened to subpoena your calls and emails is downright chilling.
Did you threaten to subpoena their calls and emails?
No, sir, and there's no way to subpoena phone calls.
What?
Well, I mean, I'm just saying.
I'm reading what the...
That's total crap. You just play a little game there like, I'm the legal genius and you're not.
You're threatened to go and grab their records with the subpoena to make them appear in court with the information demanded.
Believe me, I've had enough lawsuits and divorce and custody battles.
You get subpoenaed to show up in court and you get ordered by the court to produce your records.
It's called discovery. But that little piece of crap, like Hillary, when they went, you transferred the weapons to Turkey to start the invasion.
You transferred the weapons to Turkey to be going to Syria.
It was Turkey. What's a Turkey, a bird?
Thinking viewers don't know there's a country called Turkey.
Continuum.
They do subpoena phone calls.
Well, I mean, I'm just saying.
I'm reading what the press said.
By the way, they do subpoena phone records.
I've had my phone records subpoenaed four times.
God Almighty.
Talk about, oh man, wow.
And all the scum they've got in there laughing.
Keep laughing, jerks.
You keep laughing.
Go back to it.
I'm reading what the press said.
I suggest that you not rely on what the press says, sir.
Well, I didn't ask if there's no way to do it.
I asked if you said it.
If I said what?
What I just read you.
No, I did not.
Well, now, who are we supposed to believe?
Staff members who we've worked with, who've never misled us, or you guys who we've caught hiding information from us,
who tell a witness not to answer our questions.
Who are we supposed to believe?
Thank you for making clear it's not personal, Mr. Jordan.
Oh, pause.
See, he's threatening their staff.
He's threatening other people.
It's on record.
These guys are a bunch of thug gangsters who have asked hundreds of people about me.
Like that intimidates me, little thug.
America's awake, Rosenstein.
Get it.
Let's go back to it.
I'm saying the Department of Justice.
I'm telling the truth and I'm under oath.
If you want to put somebody else under oath, then they have something different.
I know these staff members.
Here's my last question.
What's so important that you know, that you don't want us to know,
that you won't give us the documents we're asking for,
that the House of Representatives is about ready to go on record saying you should give us,
what's so darn important that you will threaten members,
at least according to me, important to the staff members, threaten members?
Elementary inquiry, Mr. Chairman.
What is so important, Mr. Rosenstein?
Elementary inquiry, Mr. Chairman.
This is not an appropriate time for a parliamentary inquiry.
And point of order.
The gentleman keeps representing that the House of Representatives.
Yes, it will be.
The Republicans who continue to...
That is not an appropriate point of order.
Well, he needs to be corrected.
The time of the gentleman...
He will be the members of the Republican Party.
The gentleman will suspend.
The time of the gentleman from Ohio will be restored for an additional 15 seconds,
and then the Deputy Attorney General will be allowed to respond.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Rosenstein, Mr. Ray, I do appreciate work,
but I'd also appreciate if the House of Representatives could get the information.
We have repeatedly...
Mr. Gowdy talked about how long this investigation is going on,
how long there's been a special counsel.
We started asking for information in July of last year,
and some of that is still not given...
Still has not been given to the Congress.
Still has not been given to this committee,
to the committee charged with defending the Judiciary Committee.
So I appreciate what you do.
I just want the information, and we're so frustrated
that there is now a resolution on the floor of the House
in just a few minutes that will be voted on.
Time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. Rosenstein will be allowed to respond.
I don't have any control over what resolutions you vote on, sir.
I know you don't.
The gentleman will suspend it.
The time now is the Attorney General's.
If you're interested in the truth, Mr. Jordan,
the truth is we have a team of folks,
there are Trump appointees and career folks,
and they're doing their best to produce these documents.
Director Ray explained to you the process he's got.
Hundreds of people working around the clock,
trying to satisfy the need for the justice department.
So you're saying, oh, we got Trump appointees.
They're the ones running all this.
Just more garbage.
It's more, oh, he runs the justice department.
Yeah, right.
Continue.
Team of folks, there are Trump appointees and career folks,
and they're doing their best to produce these documents.
Director Ray explained to you the process.
He's got hundreds of people working around the clock,
trying to satisfy the need for justice.
He's got hundreds of people working around the clock,
trying to satisfy these requests.
So whether you vote or not is not going to affect it.
You're going to get everything that's relevant
that we can find and produce to you.
I support this report, sir.
I'm not trying to hide anything from you.
Yeah, right.
Well, guess what?
Liar, you've already been caught lying a bunch.
You've been running the whole operation
to put McCabe under you
and to launch the whole special counsel.
You did all this.
You're the ringleader.
You're the chief dirty little Clinton dingleberry
that is getting ready to get flushed down the toilet
of history forever.
We'll be back with a special guest and more.
Stay with us.
I had great results.
I lost 70 pounds.
I weighed 265 and went down to 195.
My doctor told me if it works for you, then do it.
A lot of people say to me, how did you lose the weight?
I said, I take Andrew 400 every day.
I'm going to take it forever.
That was Walt talking about Andrew 400.
Now listen to what Bob has to say.
When you listen to your radio commercials,
you say that's not possible.
But since I've experienced it,
your commercials aren't strong enough.
I am 76 and I've had a belly for way too long.
My whole body is shrinking.
My energy level has gone up.
And the only thing difference is Andrew 400.
It's great stuff.
I tried other products and nothing happened.
Guys, if you'd like to lose stubborn belly fat,
gain energy and feel years younger,
try Andrew 400, the safe, natural,
and affordable way to boost your testosterone.
Go to andro400.com or call 888-400-0435.
888-400-0435, andro400.com.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful
MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped
into the environment, our team knew we had
to create a bigger and better formula
to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems
if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time as powerful
microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today
at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links
from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelist.
It is you, the InfoWarriors, across the planet
that stood against the bullying, that stood against
the peer pressure, that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team,
supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors
can get between us with critical videos, articles,
breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever
to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to,
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield,
Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking
for over a year and now we believe we have come as close
to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier
as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused
as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be
thanks to your support and your prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield
InfoWarsLife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center
and the heart of the Resistance.
Ho-Tep Jesus is coming up.
Remember this when you went into Starbucks?
How you doing?
Good, how are you?
All right, I heard y'all was racist so I came
to get my own free coffee.
I saw that.
Yeah, I heard you guys doing like black people
so I wanted to get my Starbucks reparations.
What's that?
Is that a real thing?
It's a real thing.
I saw that on my Twitter last night.
Yeah, I need a free coffee.
That's what I'm talking about.
This is justice.
This is justice.
This is what I'm talking about.
It's a great customer service.
Yeah, I was reading that and I was like,
there is no way.
Absolutely.
Could you imagine?
Ever here.
You should throw some milk in it.
Sure.
What kind of milk?
Uh, old.
Yeah, reparations, man.
Gotta get my reparations for being black in America.
Black lives matter.
Do you want me to play music?
We got caramel, hazelnut.
I'll take caramel.
Is that going to make it sweet?
Do you want to?
Yes.
What's your name?
I appreciate you.
Amanda, man, you are a grim.
This is the last day here until the phone.
Is it?
You're amazing.
Thank you.
I'm a student at Ryder and our final is starting next week.
Uh-huh.
That happened about a month and a half ago.
One of the top stories in the country.
He's been all over the news.
Hotep Jesus joins us.
And I didn't know until I already went on with Owen Schroer.
He was even a listener for a while,
but he's got a long, interesting bio.
Books by brian.com, hotepnation.com,
Twitter, Vibe, Hi.
But it's great to have him on with us.
I just want to get him on as a commentator routinely
to give his take on the world the things he's doing
because I've seen that clip wanted on my show.
And then I saw him with Owen.
I was like, well, I'm jealous.
Owen got him a couple of times.
I haven't.
I watched the interview and really like what he had to say.
So we'll cover the waterfront,
but I think his awakening is important.
That's one of the things he wanted to talk about
because it's part of other people's awakening.
And then where is this point in the world we are right now
where things have gotten so crazy and where does he think
things are going next?
So, Hotep, thanks for joining us.
Alex Jones, the man, what's up, baby?
Hey, you're the man, my friend.
That's a great, great thing you did in Starbucks.
And all of your other videos are awesome.
Tell us about yourself.
Tell us about your awakening.
You want me to get into being a fan of the, of the Info War
turning point influencer, Hotep and black conservatives.
Yeah, yeah.
So first I want to just talk about my red pill.
So of course I grew up Hotep,
but as far as the globalist is concerned
and the new world order in Bilderberg,
you were my red pill for that, you know,
understanding the Federal Reserve
and how all of that stuff happens and works.
That was you.
That was all you.
So I just wanted to say thank you for putting that information
out there and being my red pill at Azaya
as far as that respect is concerned.
Well, that's awesome.
You know, they really demonize me
and I'm willing to be demonized.
They lie about what I say and do to twist it
to try to not point out that we've been very successful
getting a lot of other great thinking minds
just to get outside the box.
Nothing you probably listen to what I had to say,
but it just triggered something was already in you.
But the thing I'm most proud of is how many great activists
from every walk of life I run into
that were triggered by this broadcast.
Not even so much by me,
but just by all the great things we do at InfoWars.
So God bless you and I'm very, very proud of that, my friend.
I think activism was hijacked.
I think what you started was a particular type of activism
that spoke about very real issues
and then activism was hijacked
when we talk about fluffy issues and bathrooms
and all that nonsense.
But I feel like you are a pioneer
as far as the mental activism is concerned.
But we got to do one thing for the internets today.
We got to do one thing for the internets today.
The internets need to see me and you
side by side screaming and raging at the globalist, man.
Can you do that for me, man?
Sure. I lose my voice as well.
So people, my voice needs to be scratching
but I scream so much.
My larynx is gone.
It's like,
ah! We're free.
It feels good, did it?
I know you were gonna do that.
It feels good now.
But it feels good as you're done with whatever you...
I'm not buying anything you say I'm free
you say I'm free and I'm not buying your crap anymore yeah yeah yeah that's how I
feel when I come off my periscope I got that Ali Jones ring yeah yeah we need
that the movement lacks passion and you bring passion and I love it man well
usually when I do it I kind of I mean I'm already passionate you know but I'm
usually something's already pissing me off and it's all coming to go but I
realize you know they're not going to suppress us then I decided to fight and
then that just happens but yeah they made some good memes with what's that
called Super Saiyan and some kind of Japanese TV thing where they go
ah yeah Super Saiyan yeah yeah yeah enough about me enough about me hotel my
voice now halfway gone so you're awakening where do you see us in the
world today where do I see us in the world today yes man I see us like right
it right at the edge of where Rome falls when Greece falls when Egypt falls you
know when you look at the similarities between a lot of the previous Empire it
seems like United States is at that fork in the road where if we don't make the
right turn we fall if we make the right turn we succeed as a nation and I think
that the conservatives have the right idea and I think that if we can get more
black people off of the Democratic plantation and over to the conservative
side we can avoid the bad side of the fork in the road I just got a chill
every time I hear the truth I get a chill a good chill there's a bad chill you
get a fear but that good chill and what you said is we are at the crossroads
aren't we yeah we are definitely at the crossroads this is the time where people
really have to buckle down look the facts remove emotions and really get on
the side of good you know right now we're facing it's really evil versus good
you know when you look at the actions of magazine waters and how that trickled
into reality attacking a member of Congress as we saw the other day this
stuff is actually starting to manifest as evil it's been evil since the black
lives matter movement has started and this is really a matter of good versus
evil so I tell people hey if you want to be on the side of good trust me they
ain't the Democrat there's the clip right there as you can see like this is it
manifesting this is this is just completely uncalled for here we have
two people that are of adult age who they're not supposed to be approached
like this in public right that like there's a professional way to handle
your gripes with public officials with government officials and this just isn't
it this is evil this is attacking this is communism this is also projecting
stuff Mitch McConnell's been an open-borders guy so they just project
Nazis and the ladies you know Asian she comes over gets their faces like it's
also that it'd be one thing of like these people's you know had their house
taken by them or something they were the bank or they were the person I did it
but they it's like just made up they just projected on them yes that's
exactly what this is this is projection you know when you look at the
Democratic Party in the history of Democratic Party we know they're the
ones that enslaved my people we are the note we know that they're the ones that
implemented Jim Crow they're the ones that are the reason why we call ourselves
black instead of African they've done so many demonic things to us and now here
they are trying to project that onto Republicans in the conservative side of
things and that's exactly you hit that you hit the nail on the head with that
this is merely projection this is evil projecting so that people don't look at
them as evil and look at us as they gotta flip the script and that's
absolutely true we're all Americans but we can all say we're people and be proud
of where we came from at the same time and that the Democrats have put out so
many names for everybody they just want to be the person that names it whatever
they want they're gonna change it all the time absolutely Malcolm X has a
quote I forget what it is but he talks about be careful the media what have you
hating the good guys and that's what we're coming through right now and it's
the big one we talked about the Democrats being really bad all the rest of
the guys crazy it'll be the Republicans are perfect either but Trump is taking
down those bad blue bloods and it's incredible we'll be right but with
hope to have Jesus he's on fire he better take over now I I never took
voiceless when I started screaming I blow my voice out so I'm gonna even more
raspy stay with us you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info
war's life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and
melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and
achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the
pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let
your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the
day info war's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and
beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you
deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars
life calm and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life calm feeling your
body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily
digestive pack to help you feel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take
advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power
your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most
potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our
incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day
these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight
against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life
and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really
is the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the
big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the
pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested
the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal
levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored to optimal levels as it
turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it you
know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in
fours life they take hours michael's the x plus and now is a lower price it's
stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the
mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for
months it's got the preglinone that's the precursor all the natural hormones
in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino
acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the
super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue
silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a
supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and
remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that
aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much
for being part of the second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop
tyranny well so does he live from the info wars.com studios it's alex jones
right now the globalists the big mega banks the satanists that's who they are
are panicking because humanity's waking up all of the planet exclusive report
upon info wars.com you put that back up thanks judge andrew depolitano is in the
front running he's the top front runner for Trump's supreme court pick the
politano was told he was top pick in 2017 by the president face-to-face let's
just add by the president they're great job get Daniels get that article up
there's a video with roger stone on last hour I had it from other sources that
some that were at the trump tower on this happen it was when president was
moving back and forth and he in Gorsuch was in because you had the obvious
assassination of Scalia and I said when our reporters were down there it's like
bohemian grove turned out it is a bohemian grove facility and it turns
out it was a secret society I mean this stuff just gets crazier and crazier by
the minute we're going back to hotep Jesus about 50 minutes the next hour and
then we've got roger stone joining us from his studio he was on phone earlier
getting off a plane at the airport but big things are happening and again it
isn't the Trump's perfect or I'm perfect or hotep Jesus is perfect or anybody
it's that we're not out to get you we want a pro-human future and we don't
want to abort babies whether they got brown skin or pink skin or you know
pot mark skin like mine we don't like crazy white people crazy black people
crazy anybody out there there's bad people everywhere the people that
organize themselves in bad groups whatever and all of us you know get
sucked into it at times but the point is that there's an evil plan that puts
fluoride in everybody's water that feeds everybody GMO that is trying to
destroy our future trying to keep us from getting advanced technologies that's
trying to destroy civilization what hotel got into for the general public
even though it comes from us the technology comes from us the average
people whether it was in Africa where a lot of technology came from or Asia or
wherever it builds up and then it and everything's gone he hit that and the
globalists want to be able to do that to everybody else but themselves we're
talking about that with hotel because I noticed he brought that up but before
we go any further I sell some products at such low prices that we don't make a
ton of money um so we got to sell it a lot of and I want to expand in the face
of George Soros and his lawsuits and all this and we're having a lot of victories
in court against them and we're going to continue to be here but we need the
regular listener that's on the fence you don't want to use fluoride toothpaste
then we have the very best organic with iodine and colloidal silver 4 to 5 super
blue and it's 50% off it's already our best seller for total volume sold but
it's got three dollars a product in it the average toothpaste is like five six
bucks it's got 50 cents in it count in the container ours is made with the
biggest organic manufacturer in the country with our iodine and colloidal
silver added there's no fillers my dad's a dentist a normal surgeon he quarterbacked
it and so it's got thousands of five star reviews it's got three dollars a
product in it now we normally sell for like 12 bucks or something we need to
make some money to fund all this at 50% off right now it's $7 it's it is the
best toothpaste out there now it's very strong you might want to water it down
with another organic toothpaste or something that's what my kids do where
they use the children's 50% off right now we've got the air purifiers the
electric pure breeze it's a four-stage ion you help a HEPA filter way lower
price and leading competitors they just add three four times markup it's a
hundred dollars off right now I can tell you a hundred dollars off between the
manufacturer myself we split $70 so you got to sell a lot of these but that's my
game plan is people go out and research we sell thousands of these they go wow
this really is a good deal so info or store.com in force live.com or
triple-a 2533139 discounted like this that is a that's not even a hundred
percent markup was a hundred and sixty bucks it'd be a hundred percent
it's like a 80% markup and on and that's on sale it's normally 250 so info or
store.com in force life.com or triple-a 2533139 and it's critical that's why
they don't want us to have an economy to support even if you're totally awake
about what's going on get hotep Jesus's books and after you read them give them
the library it are given to your neighbors it's all about supporting
independent thinking now hotep there's a lot to cover in the next couple of
segments and I just did a long plug but front and center where would you
talk about where we are in history is crossroads and what the global showing
today what other knowledge you want to lay on us. Well this weekend I spent
some time with Turning Point USA and they created a retreat for the black
conservatives and so I just want to take some time to kind of educate people on
that and educate people on hotels and how that relates to the black community
so I think I should start there first in a black community you're one of two
things you're either a black conservative or your hotel and often
those two things becomes anonymous a black conservative would be like Carlton
from the Fresh Prince of Belet that's what they would consider the token or
icon yeah yeah that's that's the look you would get now you have another
section of the black community which is more urban possibly spent some time in
jail definitely a little bit more street down the earth but has awakened
mentally is more conscious is off the Democratic plantation and they call those
hotep whether they are subscribed to the hotel ideology or not if you go just do
a quick search engine search on DuckDuckGo or whatever and just type in
hotep and you'll see a list of slandering articles when they slander
the systems afraid of hotep so explain what hotep is that hotep is is really I
would say after a century consciousness and of course by the way it's a good
thing if it's good roots and empowering they make the globalist don't want
anybody have their real roots they want this fake plastic thing for everybody
so everybody realize who their roots are and how it all comes together yeah I
mean look at black lives matter that was supposed to be for African people and it
turned out to be for everybody but African people they had a co-opted by
George Soros with his open society and all of his funding and then what they
did was they use all that funding to attack hotep because they don't want a
conscious message to get out because they know that hotep can bring empowerment
to conservatism because we have so much stain because we have so much respect
in the streets with real black people not the bourgeoisie that lives in NWCP in
the black caucus that tries to speak for us but it's completely detached from
reality which is where the turning point retreat comes in this week and I spent
a lot of time on people like James T. Harris who's an OG black conservative
amazing Lucas I know you're you're probably familiar with his words here
yeah yeah awesome guy spoke to him to like 3 30 in the morning shout out to
Brandon Tatum Brandon Tatum put it together spent some time with Candace
Owens we had dinner we had lunch we had good chats good talks and I know you know
Candace Owens so she has some things up her sleeve that's gonna propel the black
conservatism in this country and that's really that's really scaring the
Democratic Party and the globalist and then literal Nazi Soros oh yeah this is
the antidote to the cancer that the left is we call it the evil left and this is
the antidote to all of that this is the red pill for the mind of people who are
still sleeping or still plugged into the me let me just quantify this but from
your own perspective you know more about this from your perspective than I do the
true libertarian right-wing Christian pro-renaissance group whatever you want
to call it is simply saying we want to empower everybody and then and that would
actually create a system that would empower people to make them a nuts the
not dependent the left goes over going to protect you but then they destroy you
and make you dependent and so that's what's so attractive about real red
pill conservatism is that it's saying no we recognize your power we want you to
be powerful correct correct there's nothing wrong with that the thing is
Democrats want to disenfranchise they want to suck or siphon power power out
of the community you see it doesn't happen overnight you see when you come in
and you practice you know warfare you come in your bomb and it's just over with
no that's not what Democrats do they siphon and they like a power site they
slowly suck the life out of your communities they suck the life of our
people they are vampires exactly and that's what they've done to the black
community between the 1950s until now especially the 60s the 70s and 80s you
saw their politics accelerate the decline of the black community and and this is
what we're seeing now and that's what we're fighting beautiful we're gonna
break it a few minutes I want to come back and talk about from your unique
perspective what's happening but it's real and it's just crazy that it's like
Donald Trump was a flashpoint for it because the black community going back
30 40 years knew that Trump was actually just pro everybody likes everybody and
that and that and that and that and then they now try to demonize him from the
corporate level but deep down everybody that's known Trump knows that's not true
absolutely the black community knows it's not true for the most part the
issue is that the media has done such a great job of brainwashing people they've
done such a great job of making the MAGA hat a symbol of hate that people are
now deterred from goodness from righteousness from America like this is
the first time since I've been alive in 38 years I've seen people become
anti-American and it's sick and long and that's because the globalist
captured America they were siphoning it to for evil now that America's having a
crisis of soul and might become good again that's why they're scared and now
that's why they're saying it's bad the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen
our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our
products that's what we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest
fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great
formula that supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new
natural caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red
bill it will become one of our fellow info wars favorite products now with an
extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
monta leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting
your mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red
pill has it's also got the boost edit get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies
bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has
been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today it
is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties our pure
turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function
immune system and so much more regular turmeric root from the store only
contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our turmeric root
extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric
with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work
synergistically for full-body support try bodies today at info wars life.com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
hello this is Hank Hill and I'm telling you what you need to listen to Alex
Jones in infowarstore.com
live from Austin Texas broadcasting worldwide it's Alex Jones
see my family
word like Protestant Republicans and so anybody that was racist was like seen as
a loser that wanted to put somebody else down to make themselves feel big but I
was never really around Democrats and then when I got into media and I would
go out and protest at abortion clinics and stuff I'd have black people come
over and I've had like Reverend Children's song he says oh absolutely
happens me all the time he's against black genocide and and and they and they
start foaming at the mouth this is a virtue signal when I say this because
I'll tip Jesus is on here whether he's African or whatever they would go you
don't want to now you see it on the news project Veritas has caught it in
others you don't want those black babies you need to take some of you are under
blah blah blah and and it's like foaming at the mouth like Renfield black
people who've been hired by the liberal Dracula's and it's really true like Bob
Marley said the Babylon system is the vampire and it is true if you want to
talk about blacks or Africans being targeted that that was the beta test of
the vampirism and if you go into leftist communities I don't care if they're white
Appalachians or black poor areas the people are like hopeless so they walk
around like zombies and and and you talk about vampirism this is a short
segment longer segment coming up hotel but I'm telling you they the left knows
I go to these events we've had undercovers go in and their devil
worshippers and they say we want to kill people we want to enslave them we love
Satan and then I came to the realization the last five years that I knew they were
in into devil worship high up but I didn't realize it was like all the way
down into it and I don't know why on the list of people to hurt black folks
Africans are one of the favorite or derbs am I wrong there in the three minutes
we've got her could you explain that to me no you are not wrong they or derbs is
funny but yeah sometimes I feel like we're the main cause no no I agree but
I'm just saying that's the thing that they like the thing they start with that
it's like I think that's the start of the meal yeah no you hit that straight on
the head you know I have no pushback on that at all um we are fodder almost um
there's many different theories that no I agree it's one of the big targets of
the population with Oprah the head of it when I say it started with you right
right yeah exactly not totally getting um well let's look at Planned Parenthood
right you have this thing called Planned Parenthood started out with Margaret
Sanger Margaret Singers known to have ties with the KKK then you have people
like Jamila Lemieux who gets money and awards from Planned Parenthood to push
her feminism and then when when confronted about Margaret Sanger she goes
oh well she's dead and just because she started this doesn't mean that's what
this is anymore right but then if I align with the Republicans they try to take
everything Republicans or conservatives are that are allegedly associated with
and throw that in our faith but we can't use this meanwhile when you look at
Planned Parenthood the name is is inaccurate they don't plan parenthood
they plan death and if you look at what they provide for women period the only
thing they provide for women are prenatal vitamins the rents is abortion
they should just call it the abortion clinic they're not planning any
parenthood they're planning that and where do they stick them they take them
and they put them in Pepsi that's what they do with the baby they put them in
Pepsi they sell them they sell the body parts they sell the stem cells and then
they make money off of the black baby matter of fact Planned Parenthood makes
more money off black babies than black people do I'm sure bet um they make more
money off black people period when you have people like the feminists the
black feminist movement who actually worked for these globalist bat regime
that's exactly what they are as you know that was Margaret Singer's job we've
got her famous diaries and then the Kellogg's and Colgate Foundation she
said we've got a higher blacks get them trained to go out and then control the
other people to exterminate these Africans I'll be back with Hotel Jesus on
the other side we're gonna get him back a lot more because this is he's got he's
doing great work and then we've got Roger Stone with exclusives on the
hearings today and on the new Supreme Court nominee Andrew Napolitano stay
with us info wars.com news wars.com
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life
daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine fluorolife everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage
of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut
and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these
incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try fluorolife and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today
discover trends and global developments years before they happen right here on
the Alex Jones show
Donald Trump is breaking the will of the globalist we're all breaking the
will of it ourselves I can tell you Trump is pro-christian he's pro-god he's
pro-freedom but he's not a hypocrite he doesn't look like a Pharisee telling you
how great he is but Trump particularly in private conversations and now I told
people about this couple years ago but now he says it's about energy it's not
some new agey thing he doesn't like the energy of death he doesn't like the
energy of being a vampire now he's also type of guy if you want to make mistakes
and stuff that's up to you he's all about free will but it's not just Trump he
he's here at a critical time where all these other nationalists from the
continent of South America Africa Australia Russia Europe Eurasia
everywhere people this is happening and there's a force trying to control human
destiny and Hotep Jesus is a African activist who's exploded on the scene
tens of millions of views on his videos and he's just gone to the turning point
USA I was flying out of DC wherever our flights were changing back to Texas and I
flew with the number two guy turning point USA and he was talking about
some of the plans the things that were going on and they recommended you know
that Watson go do some major stuff in DC but of course Watson doesn't want to do
that I'm not bitching at Watson it's just that there's just so many
opportunities but there's only so many people Watson does a great job who
particularly want to get the streets and I think that it's engaging people that
does that and Hotep talk about well you've got the form of the rest of
segment whatever you want to get into but I know you're out there in the
streets what is the real pulse of of of the of the African community in this
country yes from the poll numbers we see versus the reality all right real quick
before we get into that I just want to touch on this one stat so check this
out right this is according to plant parenthood they have seven ten seventeen
thousand four hundred and nineteen instances of prenatal care services
versus three million three point five million std tests and three hundred and
twenty three thousand abortions right so prenatal care services only account for
about five percent of their services only five percent of their services are
for planned parenthood and black people are backing this this is an atrocity I
did a story about this is called plant parenthood wants to kill black people in
hotepnation.com this is one of the devils in our in our community where
we're trying to fight but I just wanted to cover that really fast no no hotel
you're absolutely right because I saw books by Brian.com tell us about the
website where's where's people go well books by Brian.com is a landing page I
created for my marketing book and it just basically tells you like how I got
on Starbucks how I use psychology to build a following just by being myself a
lot of people think you have to be something else to be something in the
world tell me about the your your your main site though the main site is
hotepnation.com hotepnation.com I want to plug that I've seen it before and I'm
glad you reminded me of it yeah here is there's a litmus test as I've said I
don't want to hear you claim your virtue signaling I don't want to hear how much
you hate cops I don't want to hear how much you care about how you want to help
African people or anybody else in this country the fact that the left is
targeting black people for abortion targeting them to be killed that's the
litmus test and the left though when you bring that up to one of these you know
so-called you know African leaders or whatever in the US they they just cut and
run because they're bought and paid for they'll pull up in their branding
cities in a neighborhood they don't live in they'll give some racist speech
because a bunch of end fighting and meanwhile you drive across town 99% of
the white people you talk to are not I hate Africans I want to abort their ass
so the natural ally of everybody is Christians and others that aren't into
death yes yes the black community or I'm sorry I should say the black bourgeoisie
the black so-called media which we know is not black owned is being paid to
attack men like me straight white men straight black men are under attack we
have become public enemy number one in the eyes of the because we're the
potential leaders because we are the potential leaders because we are the
ones that can actually protect people from the globalist so they have to get
us out the box out the pink ASAP and they're using feminists to do this some
guy named Michael Harry yacht some writer for the root the root is the
number one perpetrator that is that is doing this to us and they've put black
men in the line of sight for their firing squad it's disgusting and that's
what we're like you have this one thing now where they say that black men are
the white people of black people like how ridiculous is that so now here I am
aligned with conservatives and they're mad I'm like what you just said I was the
white people of black people how can you how can you be mad now when you
already put me in that boat so that's just one example they have weaponized
the black woman against the black man they've been doing that since the 50s
with the welfare where in welfare you had to have the man outside of the home
in order to reap the benefits they are now weaponizing the LGBT movement under
the guise of black lives matter they have weaponized trans people they have
weaponized women they are going to use the indoctrination center that we call
public schools to weaponize the children and the college students against us as
well to create an implosion of the black community and use democratic policies
to siphon power from the black community and this is what we're fighting I have
talked on major rock stars some of the biggest names out there we're told the
90s you better start doing gangster rap and a lot of them tried it or you're
gonna be off the air and some of the redstone and the globalist and the
corrupt elements of the CIA are on record funding gangster rap to brand
black men as murdering gangsters thugs so they could then make white people hate
black men put black men in prison and then break down society just like the
cocaine got shipped into with the real freeway rick Ross and that's a fact now
it doesn't mean once they wound up a bunch of black guys be racist drug dealers
and thugs just like MS-13 or the KKK doesn't mean they're not some of those
groups bad but the point is they were manufactured they were mind controlled
they were turned into that so just like I don't like a grip of those guys coming
after me and my family I grew up in Dallas I've dealt with it that doesn't
mean that I don't see the larger picture of the factory that created that yeah
they weaponized VH1 against us that's the new one with their oh you can see it
they have all these black people the MTV Awards and VH1 Awards talking about
whites are bad whites are scum we're gonna get you that's meant to make white
people become a racist and hate black people it's so damn evil and obvious it's
crazy oh yeah well well VH1 has created programming that's gonna force black
people to hate black people all you see is black on black crime so Hollywood has
very sophisticated how do we stop it how do we stop it it it starts with this
right here the conversation between hotel Jesus and Alex Jones that right
there was mind-breaking it also starts with people who have a large following
just tweeting the word hotep that is going to make the black liberal lose
their mind you see when the hoteps in the black community are empowered the
black community comes back to its power to its center and then the black
liberals lose power because hoteps have more connection with the black community
than the black liberals do black liberals have a fake attachment to the black
community in fact when I talk to people in the black community there is not much
hate for Trump as you would see online I can red pill somebody that lives in the
hood a lot faster than I could one of these bourgeoisie black these bourgeoisie
blacks are completely brainwashed because they've been through all levels of
the public school system also white liberals or anybody they think they're
part of the establishment they've been buying the lies they even know it's the
lies but they feel like they're in power let's do one more segment and Roger
Stone's coming up because this is critical to understand that the average person
turns on the Oscars or anything you see all this race and stuff they're slung
at white people that's Hollywood trying to cause a race war and so we had to be
sophisticated enough to get that and understand it hotep Jesus is our guest
we get more of the definition of hotep that scares the globalist and the
leftist and these globalist vampires so much on the other side news wars.com
info wars.com
and then Roger Stone with big bombshells is coming up
I was like, I'm on a pinion, I'm on a pinion while the hotep was talking and it sucked it down on my lungs
it feels real good right now
bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required
proprietary value-added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects
the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in America today ready to
eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale
price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon.com ready to eat
bacon.com this is Dan Pillard you owe the IRS money you can't pay our tax
debts crippling you I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years I've
helped thousands and I can help you too I wrote the book on IRS settlement and
I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to
finally get free of IRS debt with the IRS's new programs there's never been a
better time to solve your problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my
website danpillard.com heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood
pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the
symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor
circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you
that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America my blood pressure has normalized
my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much
healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel I
recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the North
American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep
their cardiovascular system healthy order your two months supply today by
calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
do you realize that when you spread the links from M4s.com when you spread the
videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary and the
lovelest it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the
bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more
important than ever that everyone go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with
critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you
more than ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos to
tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you
can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash
newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning info wars life is
launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source
prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries
and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for
your body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works
with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as my cozy x the
targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the gut so this is the
time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products you get them separately or together and make really really big
savings and get high-quality products at the same time and I'm doing this to
introduce these products to you bodies sold out of a month strongest
concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with it sold out for another
month and a half we sold it at 50% off till it sold out and I think it's gonna
be the same way with this fiber get yours today in 4slife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right we got big breaking news and a video clip I'm gonna play I remember
two years ago when president Trump was president-elect just about two years ago
and he had one of the heads of the whole Japanese system there and he was
gonna get them to invest 50 billion and that was the first of the dominoes that
have now been several trillion invested here and Trump pledged that if you just
invest here we'll have a market with you and he knew that Japan had already been
investing compared to China and China invests 23 billion with us on average we
invest 900 billion in them well Japan invests hundreds of billions with us so
soft banks said 50 billion it's now over 100 billion and it's good business for
Japan as well but that is hiring tens of thousands of people so I was just
watching Trump live we're gonna play a clip of it here backed up Trump at that
time his first job was getting the economy going would make 500 phone
calls a day and like you know he called my wife up to tell her what a great job
I was doing I get on the phone I said sir he's still called some since then I
said sir I like you calling but you don't have to call I'm on board you know
I know you're busy I go what call is this sir he goes well like 397 I said
I said sir you could go I mean but he gets the energy and what he's doing and
encouraging people that's how he did it and it's not like he's virtue signaling
the African community human community but is a time bomb the globalist tab that
they want to control we got to fix that and and and and you know it's not some
virtue signal we just can't target black babies and try to kill them that doesn't
mean if some brainwash you know black thugs or white thugs are trying to
attack you because what car you are you don't you know beat the hell out of them
but it doesn't mean we sink to the level of this and that's the big picture I'm
trying to get out here and there's a real awakening to this and I'm just
thinking about all things Trump's done the last two years and just everything
he's done to not be out to get America's when I scoped up in a minute
America's had its problems but why undoubtedly is it targeted by all these
evil forces because it has a potential destiny and they know it it's a
crossroads we're gonna talk to Ho-Tep in a minute getting back very soon when
every week will come on but it but here's the president right now
and Marsa son do you you want to talk about another successful guy he was in
my office he said a friend of mine said it up it said I want to invest 50
billion dollars in the United States I said you don't mean 50 billion mean 50
million and that would have been okay that would have been worth about a five
minute meeting 50 million he does those two yeah and so I thought he was saying
50 million I want to set up was 50 million and I wanted to make it quick
but I heard about him he along with her the best friends he came out and I said
so good what are you gonna invest in he said yes we're going to do I said you
can't do that for 50 million I said no no I'm going to invest 50 billion and he
misrepresented to me because he's represent I can tell you he did because
he spent much more than 50 billion dollars in the United States and that
was two years ago no hundred billion and now they're gonna do a lot more so I
want to thank Marsa son Marsa are you back there come come
it's incredible you dialed in to your only audience they're there you know they
got the touch everybody they've been told don't mess with America and then now
they're like oh you can invest there oh you like America boom it's all over now
the Japanese are 100% lined up in America and and they get that's one of the
richest guys in Japan so that's that's what's going on here is just a pro
human celebration Trump goes to all these countries as we love you you're
beautiful you're great let's all come together and it's real and it's not this
evil globalist thing we're gonna control everybody and play people off against
each other that's why the elites call Trump mentally ill she's not playing
Machiavelli games well he knows the real power is in not playing games in
straight shooting that's my view hotel I think Donald Trump is the shining light
of America he's what America has been waiting for since I've been alive I
don't know what America was like before me I can only speak from firsthand
account and firsthand account he's the realest president I would say the first
black president that we've seen if Donald Trump if we superimpose Donald
Trump's personality onto Barack Obama's body black people would be applauding
this man they'd say he's the realest man ever we love him but because it's
Donald Trump and the media is controlling minds he's this demon but to kind of go
back to what you asked me before like what can we do I think what we're doing
is it's exactly what you're what your show says this is info wars this is
media versus media so what we have to do is find media faces like myself uncle
hotel and support these guys support I agree exactly I'm trying to boost other
great people yeah support Alex Jones you know support whoever your favorite
media person is support them financially so we can grow our media outlets and we
can battle where the where the real war is in the war is for the mind right now
and and and that's a war that we're losing and we have to continue to fight
and we have to continue to win without being too confident though because the
wind can change at your gut level as a dialed in guy hotel what worries you at
night about this this turnaround we're starting to see that's far from you know
10% done but beginning well how could the enemy turn this around against us they
could try like Maxine Waters the violence thing you know scaring people
that's a great tactic the Jim Crow tactic of kicking people out of the red
head you know this is what we call love just it's just really violent I'm not
sure what the word is I'm looking for you this whole left thing of bullying
people and keeping them off the street yeah straight up KKK it's radicalization
and and I think that's what they're gonna try and do they're gonna try and
radicalize this movement and they're gonna try to make it seem like kind of
like anti for where violence is okay where being a violent revolution is
okay and it's like what do you guys are voting about you control everything so
how could you revolt against people who built this nation who the Constitution
was created for you're actually you're resisting the Constitution you're
resisting the thousand fathers you're resisting the African people to help
build this nation you're resisting the people you're right
Spanish already have the population everybody it's your country why would
you if people are part of it take on the birthright and Trump is saying take
your birthright take it he was the guy 45 years ago that bought golf courses that
blacks and Jews couldn't go to that's why black folks are well known for loving
someone exactly he's just saying it's your birthright take it and they're
saying no we don't want the birthright we don't want it we're not taking it you
see what I'm saying that's exactly what's happening here but it's just a
radicalization is what they're gonna do they're gonna scare people so then if
it's not that they're gonna try and run a smear campaign with the media they're
gonna try to blackball you they you know they write written scathing articles
about me salon she's tried me you know they're gonna do you know that shows
you're on the right track yeah they're just trying to fame your character when
it comes to the individual but for the the entire population it's gonna be a
radicalization and create like this join us join us every week we love the
work you're doing I'll be back a hotel is an Egyptian word translates as to be a
piece very rarely found the names of ancient Egyptian figures such as and it
goes on through that and so God bless you my friend we love the work you're
doing we want all empowerment for everybody we love it so thank you so
much my friend God bless God bless you man thank you for having absolutely back
again going to the stars it's gonna happen our grandkids are gonna look back
on this we win this is the greatest time in history seriously we'll be right back
with Roger Stone breaking news there goes how to tap them out of shots
now there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory that absorbs 40
times better yes man or percumin plus from one planet nutrition contains
smaller particle size that allows absorption over 40 times better into your
bloodstream nano-percumin plus may also help reduce pain and inflammation
detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes nano-percumin plus is now
on sale at oneplanetnutrition.com use promo code GCN for your special
discount at oneplanetnutrition.com the next generation of nutritional
supplementation this is Dan Billard you owe the IRS money you can't pay our tax
debts crippling you I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years I've
helped thousands and I can help you too I wrote the book on IRS settlement and
I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to
finally get free of IRS debt with the IRS's new programs there's never been a
better time to solve your problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my
website Danpilla.com
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a
gift to yourself and a gift to the info or to fight the globalist limit of free
society several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the
strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina libido workout brain formula that
is safe I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my
friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the
number one best-selling product info warslife.com because it works so well
this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the
info war so it's a total absolute sure-win no-lose equation try alpha
power exclusively available info warslife.com for yourself ladies and
gentlemen it's non GMO it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities
and it's made in the USA get your alpha power today at info warslife.com
everybody needs to try alpha power today I want to plow into all of this I'm
gonna spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution I mean I
cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best
fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic
iodide in it you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best
mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as
well info warslife.com or triple A 253 3139 and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the
globalist and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they
know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your
support
Patrick in the great nation of Australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for
calling. Hey I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now I remember
back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and
I had to load down the page on my dial-up into that and I thought it was
pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your
guests and I've been using your products since the first iteration of
survival shield and since then I'm on the X2 the super male vitality the
caveman the real red pill micro ZX body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah
and I wanted to say that by following you so much it's like you're just
detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it
just the more you know God the more you fear God but the more you chase God and
I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and
the listeners out here 1776 world war you're listening to the alex jones show
you are either with the republic or against it resistance to tyrants is
obedience to God it's alex jones no weapon formed against us so prosper they
give us our victorious names like that sell out it was covered up since the
first day the JFK assassination a guy that makes me ashamed that he claims
he's a Texan Dan rather saying the oh the presidents of this mean vicious
Wolverine well that's that's that's working out with a t-shirt with that
because that's a good thing to be like a Wolverine here it is question Donna
I think history historically looking at the whole sweep of American history
there was some very nasty periods of incivility in the 1880s for example in
the 1920s but no I don't think we've ever seen anything completely like this
and part of the reason is that whether he is or is not in inside himself that
President Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what
he doesn't do that he's mean as a Wolverine and we've never had a president
who had that reputation with a press reputations presidents who are not very
good presidents who broke the law in the case of president Nixon mean as a
Wolverine but Trump's pretty nice if you watch the speeches in here unless somebody
attacks him like he understands the metaphysical rule of don't attack first
and then he's done doing nothing but delivering on his record to a level that's
got my head spinning he's got numbers of African-Americans it double what they
were for Republicans previously we had Jesus Hotep who's you know well known a
leader in the black community and he understands that Trump is making a real
conscious effort to deploy hundreds of billions of dollars of factories and
infrastructure and jobs and hotels and ownership into places like Detroit
Ford and others are announcing huge new plants huge new buildings all of it
Chevrolet all of it now Trump says though you got to get the corrupt
Democrat unions out of there and you got to stop trying to you know run all this
communism garbage but you know if you want 60 bucks an hour get out of the way
I'll give it to you because you're gonna want to work you're gonna want to take
it in your own hands just like he said I'll give you good Supreme Court
justices and now he's about to get a second pick just like he said I'll give
you fixing the VA it's being to happen just like I'll give you securing the
borders just like I will get out of your way and give you tax cuts and I will
begin to abolish Obamacare and I will kill the IMF and the World Bank I'll
get us out of the unelected DPP I'll renegotiate NAFTA and get I will I will
for 30 years they've been suppressing all these incredible cures and treatments
which are for the criminally you know your globalists they don't want you to
have and he's doing everything he said he do people say well how could it be so
different because the globalists have a management strategy of suppressing of
feudalism of not letting the people get it so if you want your birthright of
Americana and its dream was never fully realized but everybody wanted to come
here because it was still the best place ever because that's what good things
are made of it's dreams believe it's driving if you want that spirit then
you've got to be part of it and every evil cockroach is scared now Roger Stone
joins us fresh off the plane with Exclusive already Andrew Napolitano
we should recap that was told you're the frontrunner by the president we're not
trying to box the president stills thunder that's a fact he'd be the great
guy you can recap that but also the hearings today Roger Stone being brought
up we've got Gowdy we've got Jordan we've got others get them right in the
crosshairs to the current FBI director and Rosenstein the president of the
country he thinks catching them in huge lies about their no investigation before
June 2016 and not knowing about the dossier and not threatening staffers
of Jordan who are ready to go under oath all of this and then well that's not
true what about this guy that came and visited Roger Stone without a Russian
name changed to a fake you know Western sounding name again them being caught so
it seems like the wheels are coming off at this magic moment and even the hill
and the New York Times are saying okay get ready to be disappointed it looks
like they're at least talking about shutting down the fake Russia gate
because Gowdy said you're killing America this is an attack on America or
are they feigning that is it a faint and they're gonna come back with her left
hand with a dagger again I just want to move past that to begin prosecuting them
and not that I've got a vendetta but Hillary and and and people like this
are not gonna go away in my view until they're given free helicopter rides out
of the ocean to whatever island they want to go to live happily ever after so
you know that's my view so Roger thanks for joining us
Alex that beard is looking really good I like the whole Abraham Lincoln thing
it's working I'm at the cut it though because I mean the ladies they do like
it I don't wonder men grow these things it's like I'm at you know women had
never shown any interest me in my life until I grew this beard and now it's
much worse so look there's so much news here it's it's hard to know where to
start the New York Times broke a story only hours ago that Andrew Miller a
former associate of mine essentially my wingman for a number of years you off
record for months have been telling me they were grilling him everything we
didn't want to say it yet and flush him out to do this but now we can talk about
well they have subpoenaed him be mr. Mueller has but the story is not the
subpoena the story is his motion to quash which I understand will be based
on the legal opinion of professor Stephen Calabresi of Northwestern
University this will question the entire constitutional authority of the entire
Mueller investigation this is the case that Paul Manafort in my opinion should
have filed but didn't so Miller has not worked for me for three years he's a
good man he was a traveling aide for Governor Gary Johnson in the 2012
campaign he is a registered libertarian supported the Johnson well ticket in
2016 he did come to the Republican National Convention to help us out you
met him there Alex he was there for a week what the special let me correct it
I was conflating it with the other aid sorry but the real question is and we
have known that they were seeking to question him the real question is why
would you want to speak first with someone who didn't work for me at all
except for the one-week period of the National Convention during 2016 during
the presidential campaign so it's very odd and I think it demonstrates what we
have said all along this is a witch hunt but they are examining me for any
extraneous offense that they were it's a dragnet of dragnet of dragnets we'll get
into that everybody knows you're innocent Roger okay being a man you're not
innocent of being a commie or working with the Russians yeah you're innocent so
am I everybody gets that so what do you make of these hearings I've been on
planes today but this was spectacular I mean Gowdy screaming at him saying
you're destroying America Jordan saying why are you hiding documents Rosenstein
saying I'm not yeah you're a damn liar I mean they were saying damn it stopped
lying I mean this was explosive yeah it was really quite extraordinary I was
able to look at it very quickly at least snatches of it look if the president
ever had the reason the grounds for firing Rosenstein it is right now he is
ignoring a demand of the a co-equal branch of government asked directly what
can you tell us about the FBI informant who was sent to see Roger Stone nothing
what can you tell us about the FBI informant who was sent to see Michael
Caputo nothing what bothers me Alex is their informant who has a history of
violent gun crime in the past has gone missing they can't find him is he coming
after my family I don't know I'm deeply concerned about that how is he even in
the country with that kind of clear he's a convicted guy of violent crimes a
Russian operative that uses fake Western names who they tried to breadcrumb you
with and then now he's he's missing yeah I would be he looks like quite a
ombre yeah look I have a legitimate concern that he's gonna come after my
family I know Michael Caputo feels the same well what did I advise you four weeks
ago in person is it moved to Austin Texas and go to a safe house oh wait a
minute and then I would raise you the money Roger you we need to get you
moving around but let me tell you something I already tried to kill you
okay and I believe me I've got sources they want you dead dependent all on you
knew this a year and a half ago and the fact that you're still at your house on
the rest of it is just you're asking for it and I get you gotta fly around and
stuff but man I would book flights last minute I would do everything because let
me tell you they are a hundred percent wanting to shoot you they want to kill
you dead in a hammer and I know your wife would like to hear that it's the
truth so try to be glad I'm telling you we'll be right back ladies and we've got
to raise money for Roger they're trying to bankrupt the amounts too I mean it's
incredible we'll be right back in four wars dot com news wars dot com tomorrow's
news today good as a new Supreme Court nominee heard here first and a lot more
straight ahead the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is
constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products
that's what we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan
favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great
formula that supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new
natural caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red
bill it could become one of our fellow info wars favorite products now with an
extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
monta leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting
your mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that right real
red pill has it's also got the boost edit get the real red pill plus at info
war store dot com nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with
prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support
overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a
mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good
bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your
immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the
highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic
fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life com or
call 1-888-253-3139 choose to take control of your chemistry with survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and
is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed our super high quality
nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth
iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with an
adequate thyroid hormones you may experience low metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work
together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry
today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio
true selenium at info wars life calm staying healthy on the go is just as
important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast
enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the
super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and
a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom
kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is
dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay
clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray
will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet
simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a
powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying
toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay
healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life
calm that's info wars life calm you're listening to the alex jones show
I'm gonna lay it out right now listeners I'm gonna shoot you straight on
corruption when I sit up here on air and I say info wars is the front line with
the tip of the spear it's the truth when I tell you that what we cover here more
than anywhere else because imagine the amount of truth that's here every day
compared to fox news and I'm not knocking fox it's at least pro-american
somewhat year a year ago was trying to go the other way but that failed
management changed and it's back on track info wars other than like drudge
report calm and and Hannity to some extent is the only place that the real
talking points are getting out so when roger stone talks about they're coming
after him and he's got cars t boning him he's getting shot in the back with
polonium darts I've seen the medical records when we're talking about they're
coming after us George Soros is suing us there's hundreds of articles this month
saying the war against alex jones the war to shut down the press they filed
amicus briefs saying we want to end the first amendment it's a bad idea and the
democrats point at trump say he's overthrowing the constitution when the
supreme court rule is he's dead on because he is so we are americana we want
prosperity for you and your family but if you don't recognize that we're not up
here going oh we're really important oh we're under attack without you we're
gonna go down it's like the alamo colonel travis when he knows 8000 mexican
troops are coming he's got a hundred ninety something men a couple women and
he says victory or death if you don't get here I think we'll be dead in a week
but that's okay we're gonna stand up and buy your time and get ready well I
think we'll kill a couple thousand they're gonna be on their way up to you
take care of my little boy that my family raised a gun solace but the whole
point is that it's not like he's a loser he's a winner he knows a tyrant that's
hated in his own country is coming who's taking all the tax money and trying to
take the guns trying to take the land people paid for he's coming and 30% of
the folks that were in the alamo we were mexicans that they don't understand
anna a dictator they wanted the land they had their guns you think santa anna
with the average Mexican have a gun no and if I was at that same spot today
no one this army estimated to be 8000 which was was coming to kill me but I
knew that I had to buy time be an example for people I would do it because
there's things big in this universe now I'm not saying we're going down that road
but Travis asked for the help Travis asked for the he wrote the letter and by
the time it got to him the alamo had already fallen the point is we're going
to see this through everybody knows it metaphysically the enemy Soros knows
Soros knows at a spiritual level it's not even some macho thing that I want to
die I don't want to die I want to win and if I have to die for humanity to win
to ensure the big victory I'm all about it I just want to judiciously use my
energy my blood my intellect to crush them and it's like we're a ship we've
got sales and we're gonna ram the enemy and when you support us financially or
spread our articles our videos our material and realize it's the forbidden
information the most suppressed up out there in congressional hearings is Alex
Jones Paul Watson that's what comes up in the hearings they want it in the
veritas videos what is it about it it's the spirit it's the reality it's the
truth it's the commitment it's they they know that that we've got their number
and they want Roger silence so they can destroy him they're suing him the
former president all of them and he gets them thrown out they file more and
you're like well then they'll keep what no they're gonna run out soon they're
already show I was telling you infowarstore.com go there get fluoride
free toothpaste you and your family needs get great water filtration air
filtration get the great products get extended wise great heart pills we've
got get the air filtration and and go to stonedefensefund.com and make a
hundred dollar donation if you're a wealthy person I love how wealthy folks
sit on the fence thinking they got ahead that way well maybe in past seasons not
in this cycle you don't get off the fence now you're asking for it so if
you're wealthy give a thousand dollar donation if you're not give a ten dollar
donation people like I'm not really doing too well I got a paycheck very small
all gave us five dollars your five dollars like the widows might is more
important than some millionaire you know that and I love these millionaires
millionaires they've called me over the years and some of them fighting at some
of the groups you see they're like well we where we want you to do this certain
agenda and it's always a test I'm like sorry I can't control myself I can't
shine on to your agenda if you like what we're doing give us money but it's
never big money it's always little people giving us money so you can donate
ladies and gentlemen infowarstore.com there's links there there's a lot of
places for you to donate but the bottom line is if you believe in what we're
doing and you want to see it continue you want to you know hear about next
year's news before anybody else here is it you want to stand against globalist
and you want to be part of history now is the time so infowarstore.com
infowarslife.com or triple-a 253-3139 or stonedefensefund.com because because
this is it I mean turn on the the hearings it's Roger Stone go to the
southern part of your law center it's get Alex Jones and people like well
you're a dumbass going up against them no if I was a man I mean I never went and
got my inheritance I'm gonna go back to Roger in a minute I never went and got
my inheritance and it was it's white substantial everybody else in the
family you know Texas had some land had some things had some you know this or
that had some businesses had some gas had some oil and I know I remember I
remember saying no I don't want my inheritance you don't have to sell that
land and give me money I don't want to go live in a fancy house and have a
trophy wife and then not work and go the Rotary Club and that powerful and you
know the golf course and be some candy-ass like some distant family
members people I know I want to build everything myself because then it's mine
and has value but that's the whole point of this thing is that is that it's you
making the right decision and there's all these wealthy people that are
shitting on the fence when Donald Trump's lost a billion dollars in this
whole fight for us because he realized he'd lose it all if he didn't Trump loved
America he loved prosperity it's not out of greed it's not a love that he
sacrificed all this and put it all on the line because he couldn't believe that
people hated it so much it wanted to screw it away for no reason as a
pissing contest well now you've got a chance when we're already winning winning
winning winning the tables are hot to jump in and tell your neighbors you
support Trump to tell your neighbors you support in force to tell your
neighbors you gave a thousand dollars Alex Jones or Roger Stone to filter your
damn kids water and fund us it's everything I do is a 360 win I don't
do anything that doesn't help people because let me tell you something right
now I gauge it all in my spirit if it isn't in line with God and with God
fearing and if it hurts somebody else I don't push it because I'm not gonna
dirty my spiritual future for any other person and I don't want to dirty the
future of my children and their children where the globalists will take
control and brainwash them and destroy them and then steal their souls that's
what this is these vampires these damned to hell pieces of crap if you don't
double down now forget the money if you don't go out and hold out a sign and
support free speech the Second Amendment or Trump if you don't put some flesh in
the game you are damned to Hades and you are a servant of evil so I'm telling
you right now decide which side you're on and and all you out there on the fence
get off the fence join Hillary and the globalist and Michael Moore and and
Rosenstein and in all the globalist or join us stop sitting there on the
sideline Roger Stone Alex you couldn't have said it any better I just came back
from New Orleans and I ran into a lot of info warriors on the streets but they
would all ask me are things really as dire as you and Alex keep saying they
are folks we're not exaggerating at all these multi-million dollar lawsuits are
designed to close info wars down and if you just get off the bench we crush them
all I want the victory they intend to try to jack me up on some frame try to
get me to testify against the president not happening they intend to get info
wars off of YouTube off of Facebook off of Twitter close us down shutter the
place that's what they want because we're the cutting-edge they can't stand the
truth that we're delivering that's why we need your help there's no
exaggeration here we're not hyping this to get your dollars we're calling on you
because we're giving you a decision you either spiritually psychically
financially support us or just consciously know the enemy's winning and
by the way I'm not even complaining whatever happens happens and we're
getting a lot of great support I just want folks to know that we tend to be
so confident we don't let people understand the level of the game we're
out here Roger well I don't know what others will choose to do Alex but I
know what you do and I know what I will do I will fight to the bitter end but I
can't do it alone we need the folks out there to get on board and help they
threaten to bankrupt me and destroy my family stonedefensefun.com they threaten
to close Alex Jones's entire operation and info wars down take us off of the net
nothing would make them happier that is they admit we are the beta test ban and
in the whole web so the time is now people need to choose sides if good
people don't step forward this fight will be lost but if people come together
behind our message of freedom if they will stand with us we will prevail
they're on the run right now they're in retreat and now with Trump having
another Supreme Court nomination Trump derangement syndrome is gonna reach an
even higher level and I want to explain that paradox we're having big victories
but we can't underestimate the undercurrent of the enemy and how they're
gonna lash out then at main attack guns I mean imagine like they see Roger and
myself others as main guns which we are because you're the audience you're the
real power and so they're gunning for everything right now so support your
local TV and radio stations as well and be proud you're under attack be proud
that you're actually on the winning side back in two minutes final status from
Roger Stone then Lionel former prosecutor and expert a lot of this is
coming up this is an incredible time Roger Stone stonedefensefun.com
stonedefensefun.com info wars.com and listen all of you that already donated
blood products God bless you've already come this far I'm just saying some of you get off the bench we've
taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our
own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing Z shield
toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the USA it's filled
with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the
formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we
believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier
as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and
you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as
healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the
remnant of America to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be
healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers
together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with Z
shield info wars life com as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep
up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural
ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients
amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily that's why info wars life
created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard
of advanced multivitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique
delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to
support your body using a proprietary process we've managed to make this
powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with
high-quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins minerals
amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting
natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available
at info wars store.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
history's repeating itself right at the 11th hour liberty's coming back
roger the big supreme court issue so much more that's going down but you
mentioned phil mud rent used to run counter-terrorism operations he was a
CIA infiltrator of the left it brought him by Mueller to try to spy on the FBI
he's a really bad dude he's always called the president's death I'm not a
macho guy you know I don't talk about stuff that I won't back up but Phil
mud talking about killing the president and how we need to be violent all this
crap at a certain point and the Justice Department doesn't have the will to
indict him this is a war he's an enemy combatant at this point and I don't know
why different defense intelligence Marine Corps intelligence the army why
they're sitting back while mud does this it's really quite extraordinary if you
said that you were going to kill Barack Obama I think you'd have a visit from the
Secret Service within hours if not minutes but there's a there's a double
standard here this guy openly threatened to kill the president United States in
a TV interview where's the outbreak and he's still doing it he's saying we're
gonna take him out so I like as a citizen I feel derelict I'm not gonna do
this but I feel like it in a car going to Virginia man that's my president that's
my country if everybody else gonna stand down but you better watch your ass
well now you sound a little bit like John Brennan but this is unbelievable that
he can get away with this but it just shows you the media double standard well
I'm not saying I'm doing the mud you got a guy on TV saying he's gonna overthrow
the government and kill the president I'm just saying I mean I mean I've had
people threaten my family and stuff I've sued them I mean you know a bully said
I'm gonna kick your ass I met him out in the playground I just don't understand
it it is a little hard to fathom I do think the big news though and we were
ahead of this curve here on info work is the retirement of Justice Kennedy now I
reported late last year Kennedy was next to go other than Ginsburg but
ironically with the appointment of Judge Gorsuch who had been a clerk for
Kennedy and for whom Kennedy had some affinity on a personal basis Kennedy
decided to stay around on the bench for a little longer because I think he enjoyed
that relationship now assistant with our addiction Judge Kennedy a Reagan
appointee will retire now I believe Judge Andrew Napolitano is a front-runner
we know he was the emotional first pick of the president for the Gorsuch seat
his name is not on the list that was prepared by the Federalist Society
largely because he asked that it be taken off some objections at pop snoops
under Roger Ailes at that time but I really think he is a contender the
president gave him some indication of this back during the Gorsuch selection
I mean I don't think the president could make a better choice than Andrew Napolitano
solid conservative but with a libertarian bed a pro-freedom bed very much in the
running of what I hear well to be specific President Trump said you're my
next pick if everything works out round two so would you say he's at the front
of the pack he's in a pole position sure now we know there are certain
establishmentarians who will seek to block him and the treachery inside the
Trump White House knows no bounds that's what's so ironic is that the
president has gotten so much of his agenda done despite the fact that he has
these whizzlings around him we're saying oh no you can't cash here the Iran
deal mr. president you've got a sign there are supports mr. president but
Trump sticks to his guns he's one of the most stubborn men I know and I mean that
in a positive sense when he makes up his mind to do something we'll do it and he
and not talk about it all right back in 60 seconds to put some bookends on this
I want to be clear about Phil Mudd I'm not somebody like them talks about
violence all day and you know my great-great-grandfather wasn't the guy
that you know helps you think on the back of the head so I get you know he's
really bad guy I'm just saying he wants to kill America's recovery he's running
around saying he's gonna kill me living in volcano may sound more dramatic than
it really is the real drama can be found here in Leilani estates but a lot of us
on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and
acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could
lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series
of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in
fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we
tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the
heavy metal levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored to optimal
levels as it turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a
rainwater supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will
purify it
I finished up with Roger Stone in an hour I'll be hosting the War Room with
Owen Schreuer just back from DC he was all over the hearings today so many
clubs are caving it into a pay Jordan and and gaudy kept saying well did you
ever send anybody to respond Roger Stone you ever send an informer which we know
they did and roses he was lying about everything we're at such an epic moment
here in history I always don't want to be too confident Roger but it does seem
like the worms turning not in some utopia but at least we get some decent
leadership is trying to fix things on your gut level radar screen what are you
worried about what are the curveballs how do you think the deep state's gonna
strike back I just can't see them Alex ever handing over this information on
the illegal unconstitutional surveillance of Americans and the
political use of the FISA you said on January 20th outside the inauguration
before when and after you said the illegal surveillance is the key to
bring it all down it's a hundred times bigger than Watergate you said this is
the key now that's all over the news you were the trailblazer it's just a fact
and so you're back to this the what is it rose the steam will not turn over
because he denied that he was even turning stuff over I mean he lied
incredibly today this guy is a weasel you can see it we have him thanks to
rights previous probably the president's single worst appointment mr. Rosenstein
is the de facto attorney general but this surveillance is the cornerstone of
this entire hijacking of an American election if you pull out the cornerstone
it will fall though I should say the keystone it will all collapse it's a
linchpin and they know it they know it because it it completely exposes the
effort by the Obama administration to wire the election for Hillary this was
the insurance policy that stroke is talking about in his text messages that's
why I don't think roses time will ever yield which is why the president needs
to fire him what do you make of the amazing revelation that Jim Jordan's
staff and others have been threatened directly by Rosenstein and then he lies
and says he never did it and Jordan's like I've known these people for years
you did this and then he makes a joke about we don't subpoena phone calls no
just the records you little weasel I would say it's a very clear case of
obstruction of justice and he is trying to thwart the legitimate oversight
authority of the US Congress it just demonstrates their total lack for of
any respect for the rule of law when the FBI director gives his little speech
which we put on the war room talking about their respect for oversight they
don't respect oversight they thwart oversight well that's right and we've
got Fox News AP and others with copies of emails from Rosenstein
Rosenstein saying I'll subpoena you all to the and then he gets up and says I
didn't do that but there's a little lawyer provides though we don't subpoena
phone calls so I mean God that is such an aggressive mooning of Congress the
American people by Rosenstein I mean his bravada his hutzpah is amazing well
and if you look at the size of the cufflinks that the guy is wearing at
these hearings he clearly has not read Stone's rules how big should the cufflinks
be small understated is the key look this guy just uses insincerity and we
need a house plate at the judge Department of Justice and just no
question laughing at Congress and getting all his minions to laugh at
Jordan I mean does he have no instinct that like going and lying like he did I
think he didn't get that he was being destroyed in delayed order today I don't
think he get well I don't get the arrogance of these guys well except for
he's in it now there is no turning back because what he's covering up is the key
to the entire abuse of power by the Obama administration he's only nominally a
Republican he's actually in this job at the recommendation of Congressman
Elijah Cummings that's beyond belief no I understand so you're in the jaws of
this most historic witch hunt in US maybe world history you know you're
innocent you know it's all but they're not going to give up so how do you use
them 60 seconds we're going to the next co-host how do you see this unraveling
or where do you see this going well it's very hard to know on a personal basis
all I can do is try to build a war chest because I know I'm going to a
thermonuclear legal war and they have the vast machinery and resources of the
government I sleep well at night because I know I've done nothing wrong and I
know that all of my political activities in 2016 to elect Donald Trump were
perfectly legal there is no Russian but I know what they were it had nothing to
rush it was reach black voters reach women I was involved it had nothing to
do with the Russians so but you know why are they looking at my tax returns why
are they looking at my financial records why are they asking questions about my
family life my of my relationship with my wife my sex life how much I drink
whether I smoke marijuana who cares what's have to do with the election let
me ask this selfishly because you said like a third of the questions were about
me even a few weeks ago other people told me that have they tapered off me
because I heard this like me and films and Joe Gilbert now like our films are
evil yeah they're they're very focused on the documentary Spanish the Danny
Williams story which first premiered here at info wars 38 million Americans
saw that it was legally financed it was legally promoted and it was very
successful we're being penalized for effectiveness we're being penalized
because we supported Donald Trump this isn't witch hunt it's up it's a political
persecution it has nothing to do with breaking the law it has everything to do
with silencing me so that I can't come on let's look at the president he seems
turbocharged like he's winning he the energy levels way up the peace deals
everything let's talk about Trump right now I'm just knowing over 40 years seems
like Trump's going into his next mode attack mode I think they should be
worried well his political capital has never been at this level because we have
a booming economy and it's just going to get better his corporate and personal
tax cuts haven't even had and we got pro-supreme court rulings new Supreme
Court nominations I mean he's like wow royal flush here and he doesn't get
credit for the conservative judges he's appointing at all levels I mean he is
redoing the judiciary for a long time how does Soros and Hillary that's who
still runs the Democratic Party how do they counter strike look them the
mother thing is not going to go away until the president fires Mueller it's
just a sad truth look at this piece in Bloomberg this week Mueller to now focus
on Russian collusion I thought that's what he's been doing for the last two
years and then they recycle the same old thing oh the Donald Trump junior
meeting well they never mentioned that the Russian woman a lawyer who is
clearly a plan meets with the people at at Fusion GPS before and after we all
know it's a fraud let's go pass that why would the Russians be able to
engineer defeating the Democratic Party rebooting America having the best
economy in 60 years bringing everything back wow if this is Russian
management thank you Vladimir Putin but of course it's not you and I both know
it's us it's the American people it's all of us taking action and wanting to get
away from I mean even Conrad Black of the Bilderberg group came out and said
this isn't any Russians we've had globalist programs to keep America poor
to siphon off its wealth for decades we were we were a pressure cooker about
explode Trump realized that with others and they're just saying why not have
prosperity I mean I just can't believe the weird hard on that Obama and the
globalist had like screw America let me ask you that in 60 seconds why do the
globalist hate America so much what is their mental illness because they're
for one world government they're against American sovereignty look the one
thing about Trump that people need to understand is he believes in success he
believes in winning he wants to see this country richer and more prosperous than
ever before but he wants it to be at the family level he wants your family to be
rich and to have opportunity and prospects and he also knows that this is
the keystone to his long-term political success that's why he's got a nice
bounce in his 76 that's right he is all in his success is bound to American
success finally have it and someone who's not a coward who's committed who
is blooming under our spiritual support Roger Stone amazing job stone
defense fund dot com donate their folks donated in force or dot com we need your
support this is a great opportunity to be involved in this finals coming up stay
with us thank you Roger I'll be back at the war room you have been lied to my
name is Kevin ship I'm a former decorated CIA officer finally someone has
come out and written what I think is the best ex Mose on the shadow government
ever we're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run
ruled by a shadow government we got to get this out because just because you're
awake folks doesn't mean other people are this is critical to get to read a
given library to give you the courage to get them right now at killing Uncle Sam
book dot com killing Uncle Sam book dot com bacon lovers we ship free try our
amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value-added packaging
provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully
cooked bacon in America today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and
serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use ordered
today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com stocks and
options trading in both financial risk and it's not suitable for all investors
fire your stockbroker and hire yourself I'm Scott Bauer and I've been a
professional trader for over 25 years I've traded for Goldman Sachs and was
the first Amazon market maker at the Chicago board options exchange I'm
also the CEO here at Prosper Trading Academy the leading educational firm
teaching people how to trade the markets for a limited time I'm giving away one
of my favorite secret trading techniques used by thousands of our students
every day to help build their financial future to learn this technique right now
call my 24-7 voicemail and just leave your email address I'll email you my
free trading technique right away just call 1-800-228-2155 this is the very
information my students use every day to invest in their financial future again
call 1-800-228-2155 in the next 30 minutes and leave your email address on
my voicemail that's 1-800-228-2155 call 1-800-228-2155
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the Info Wars life
daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine fluorolife everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage
of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your
body fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut
and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress
age and outside toxins there's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to
see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel
your body and support recovery try the Info Wars life daily digestive pack
today
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the
lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're
bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the
real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse
pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your
heart-brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included
a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill it could become one of our fellow
info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside
including green tea extract your remonte leaf extract and more you can get that
extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way it's got
all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost edit get
the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
well we've got breaking news from Fox News in town hall mass shooting in a
newsroom in Maryland newsroom Fox News is reporting that there are multiple
fatalities and arrest might have been made at the sheriff of Anna County spoke
to Shep Smith will keep you updated and go ahead and scroll down on that cuz I've
got my article cut off here I can't read it go ahead and scroll down please so
we've got that going on right now Lionel was about to be taking over so we
have reports of a shooting in Maryland at a newspaper newsroom and and we'll
have more of that as it unfolds here's a clip from Fox News breaking it down is
at the Capitol Gazette newspaper here it is we get a better idea of kind of what
the response is for this and we've seen a lot of these Shep whether it's a
hospital or a newspaper or a school you can get an idea of what's happening
inside the building by what's happening outside are they in barricaded
positions you can see at the top right hand of your screen there seems to be
some officers kind of gathered there well you saw there you don't have we
don't have control of the helicopter pictures but there seem to be some
officers or first responders medical personnel that are outside the building
kind of openly walking around which is a sign that they that they don't believe
or at least history tells us it's a sign that they no longer believe that an
active shooter poses an imminent threat to those who are outside the building
which is in a case like this a smidgen of good news in what looks to be a very
dark day in anapolis Maryland Shep we're gonna gather some more information on
yeah folks it's the Capitol Gazette newspaper and outside the building you
know once reportedly multiple people shot will watch that but notice when
there's hundreds of car deaths a day no news hundreds of stabbings no news they
just hype shootings we hope it isn't a giant shooting we're sad for whoever's
been shot but those are the type of things that happen in any society where
you got 330 million people active shooter at 888 best gate please help us
that's that's the type of news coming out it's a bunch of infilherent jibbering
at this point so we'll continue to follow all that but quite a historic point
we're at right now Lionel of Lionel media joins us he's taken over the
broadcast a great syndicated talk show hosts his own right well obviously
probably cover this as we learn more about it but what do you make of the
Supreme Court situation what do you make of what happened in Congress today
with those incredible hearings and Rosenstein saying that he knows nothing
and I think perjuring himself from what we already know on the record this is
just an amazing time what would you Lionel call this time we're alive and
right now well very fascinating times first in terms of the actual makeup this
will absolutely guarantee the first rule is a conservative majority next rule is
does it make any difference well Alex one of the things that people forget is
that these judges these federal judges may have very very serious belief systems
and the like but they are federally trained they tend to be very very
scholarly and that's why with all due respect love judge in that nap and
thinking terrific on TV he will never be a Supreme Court justice under any
circumstance nor should he be because you need somebody very frankly wonkish and
immersed in this because what people forget is that the majority of the stuff
on their docket is hardcore boring I mean minutiae fisheries act and going back
and whether the doctrine of preemptive and the doctrine applies to such as us
I mean it's not what people think but here's the interesting part about this
you know Alex when something when when these judges and justices put that
robe on something happens and historically we have learned when Byron
wizard white under John Kennedy he thought he's obviously one of us good sir
a liberal progressive as soon as he put this on and he basically said so they
can't fire me he became one of the most conservative justices ever then Harry
Blackman Harry Blackman was appointed by Nixon he penned Roe against Wade and the
granddaddy of them all that everybody knows about is Earl Warren and in fact
Eisenhower called it the worst G damn mistake I've ever made in my life so
once this happens it their personality change also Scalia is not what you think
he did so many cases and so many opinions and nobody ever read nobody went
back in and poured through them whenever they do this whenever they deny
search when they basically say let the lower court handle it is basically saying
we're not going to do anything so all I want people to do is don't lose your
minds but the good news is Alex I love to see how the left this this
intellectually febrile group of people are losing their minds and they don't
know why they're like this attack dog that just keeps barking and yipping and
yelping and they don't know why and with Ruth Bader Ginsburg next I mean we're
going to be talking about now a six three court I mean that what will will
joy that's what America needs to counter the bizarre chameleon communist
Chinese funded attack on America I think even American elites realize the
country's going to go down if you don't stabilize it and the left has become
this poisonous you know crazy thing and I think there's a real countervailing
wind against that absolutely and I also think something too let's talk about
abortion for just a moment you know abortion is not going to change it is
just not going to change you're not gonna see it go away you're not gonna see
roll against Wade appealed or excuse me reversed or or no it's gonna go back to
the states well what's gonna happen is you're gonna see starry decisis which
is a wonderful doctrine but one of the things that people forget is that you've
got a very very deep state on the deep bench and there are too many people I'm
sorry to say this may be a bit a bit dark but there are too many people who
are Malthusian too many depopulators who aren't going to allow this form of
eugenics and frankly genocide to go by the wayside this is too critical nobody's
going to get in the way of this and they're going to talk about you know
giving in to the will of the people but nobody wants and I hate to say it but
this critical means of liquidating basically humanity if you think that's
gonna happen it ain't gonna happen at all but you're also gonna see basically
tests on it and you're gonna see it chipped away perhaps but that is there
what's going to be interesting Alex and this is the most important is we need a
judge a justice excuse me who is able to understand what the the rigors of
today's technology are going to mean in terms of artificial intelligence the
fact that we are absentee ourselves right while they're busy worried about
humans we have all the technology and these bigger challenges are they too
old to understand that you're absolutely right that that's really the critical
issue here is the globalist don't even care what judges and people do now
because they believe they've already leapfrogged so past far that that the
real folks even their prohumani to understand they need to project what
they're doing their rulings on to that situation which needs to be always
pro-human always about review and against big mega corporations and
monopolies and the biggest thing the Supreme Court can do is bust up these
big monopolies and break these things up because if they don't do that
everything else goes up the window you've also got transhumanism is going to
take on an incredibly important aspect of this think about this you know Alex
one of the worst things that ever happened well in the development of war
was the longbow once people became or enjoyed the ability to shoot and to
kill from far away it dehumanized warfare when you put the wealth longbow
and then now we have the predator drone and then next we have the bio weapon
precisely and when you absent yourself from human interaction from the notion
of conscience it is devastating that's where victory comes from the original
the two fingers like because the Normans would cut those off like no I have
these you're you're gonna be plucking plucking the you remember with the finger
plucking the you do you pull back the we'll be back health care reform is
confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the health
care system has become a challenge control your own health care costs and
choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an
association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now
by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org it's a
no-brainer a big Berkey water filter is the one you need period you need a
water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other
endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it
all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in
gravity water filtration big Berkey and now GCN listeners receive 5% off
ceramic filter systems using code GCN color click 187799 Berkey or big
Berkey water filters calm that's one eight seven seven nine nine BERKEY do
you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you
spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary
and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the
threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more
important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash news
letter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I
ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the
videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare
minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning info
wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it
it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated
fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be
the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it
synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as
well as my cozy x the targets the yeast the mold and the funguses in the gut so
this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber
product and these other products you get them separately or together and make
really really big savings and get high-quality products at the same time
and I'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out at a
month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with it sold
out for another month and a half we sold it at 50% off till it's sold out and I
think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today info wars
life dot com living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the
real drama can be found here in Lailania States but a lot of us on the big
island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the
pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested
the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal
levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored to optimal levels as
it turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water so what
we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater
supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the Alex Jones show
I'm with you I'm sitting here for the last half hour there is this shooting
nobody knows what's going on and you would think people would perhaps leave
it at that and I also have to say that you know Fox News is a hell of a job
Shep Smith when it comes to he's doing more and more sadly more and more
shootouts than he used to do but he's very very good I mean after all he's no
Don Lemon in fact Don Lemon is not a Don Lemon let me go back to what's going
on my dear friends if you don't mind me explaining to you this notion about the
Supreme Court a couple of things I want to invite you to do number one please
read the decision read the Hawaii case fine how are you I'm sorry read the
read the case read judge Robertson how he basically distilled it's very very
simple there's a there's a beauty in the way courts can review cases there's a
there's a beauty the way it goes through the logical aspect of it to look at the
statute I don't want to bore you with this but it's not about I'm a
conservative or I'm a Democrat or I'm a Republican no it's very very linear it's
beautiful critical thinking critical analysis that's the kind of judge you
need you need a judge who is going to apply the law me give an example there
are some things that I personally personally do not care for one is the
death penalty never liked it especially after being a prosecutor the last thing
in the world I'm gonna see is anybody have the right to kill anybody when
they're putting the wrong people in jail okay if I were a judge if I were a judge
and I were able to get a case and I had to look at the propriety of whether the
death penalty was correctly applied whether it was carried out whether it
was of course the will of the people I would absolutely go ahead and say as a
judge this is from 2011 I would go ahead and say nothing wrong with this case I
don't like it I don't care for it if I had to deal with a notion of abortion
under and it's always framed in a particular way judges don't get broad
issues of is isn't a human lie for I mean it very rarely is that the
consideration it might be something very very fine-tuned I have an ambivalence
to that I do not want to see a woman put thrown into prison or jail because you
have an abortion but I don't want her to have an abortion it doesn't make any
sense and I realize that I recognize that sometimes when we have these weird
kind of moral ambivalence is that don't make any sense you know life is life is
precious well but we're for the death penalty but against abortion I don't
know not if it makes any sense and I'm not gonna argue the point here the thing
is that a judge you want to judge justice I should say to be able to look at
this and within the framework of that which is provided answer the question
you know we all love Antonin Scalia okay the guy who by the way died in some
Illuminati you know hunting lodge with a pillow on his head I've never understood
that one never out you don't need Colombo to figure this one the world's
fastest autopsy over the phone remember when Anthony Bourdain wait when they
clipped him or when he died or whatever it was quickest thing you ever saw
number on CNN well it's a suicide okay next moving up wait a minute what
happened I don't know just fine nothing to do nothing to say here but that's
another issue but Scalia had this thing where he said I'm an originalist and I
want to look at the Constitution within the framework of what the original
drafters of the Constitution believe oh come on are you kidding me you can do
that the Constitution have you read it the Bill of Rights it's horrible there's
nothing there it doesn't tell you even how many justices you should have doesn't
mention the Air Force doesn't mention marriage doesn't mention voting doesn't
mention anything it's it's it's bereft it's bereft it's wanting of information
of data it is the worst pros even the whole notion in order to form a more
perfect union a more perfect what does that mean if you can understand the
Second Amendment good for you the point of this is that as the courts have
looked at this they've read into it we all know for example I don't want to bore
you with this but if we're gonna be talking about the Supreme Court you
gotta know some rudimentary facts we all know this thing called the
exclusionary rule right this is where the police if they break down your door
if they take something if they don't have a warrant if they if they violate
the Fourth Amendment that evidence is excluded it's suppressed the big
emotion is suppressed at the trial level you all know that right makes sense
that's not in the Constitution that's not in the Bill of Rights it's nowhere
at all nowhere it was a case called map against Ohio 19 was at 61 and the
Supreme Court created the doctrine of the exclusionary rule there were
justices and judges back then who said this is ridiculous you're going to
throw a case off because of a constable's error sue sue them sue the
police officer sue the police officer what are you talking about I'm on trial
for my life you seized evidence that incorrectly and I'm gonna face the
death penalty and you want me to file a civil lawsuit what are you talking about
read the First Amendment what is covered fighting words no good libel isn't
isn't covered by the free by the First Amendment what is the Fourth Amendment
says you have to have a warrant to arrest nobody has a warrant to arrest and
having the time was searching there's an exception to it look it's a beautiful
dance and the first part of the dance the first part of the menu I just to
pretend that we're doing something that we're following some rule not really
here's one for you let me ask you this question you know how the Fifth Amendment
works right you can't be compelled to give testimony against yourself doesn't
that make sense they can't throw you on the stand and say you take this stand
where were you on November 22nd 1963 wasn't even I wasn't even born what do
you I'm not gonna testify oh yeah well if you don't we're gonna throw you in jail
you have no duty to compel or beat compel to testify against yourself all the
time that makes complete sense you was a defendant you don't have to take the
stand in fact if the prosecutor even hints even insinuate years ago as a
prosecutor we said well I didn't do this but I heard about this sometimes more
well older unscrupulous prosecutors would say well and in the case where the
defendant wouldn't take the stand they would say well you know they say
there's two sides to every story well you never guess where this guy meaning
well why didn't he testify you can't even that's a mistrial it's gone it's
through okay so you understand makes sense right but you can't be forced to
get evidence against yourself what do you call a breathalyzer what do you call
when you're driving and they suspect you have drunk driving there's been an
accident great bodily harm just figure in death whatever they could hold you
down and suck the blood out of your veins that's not giving compel testimony
you mean to tell me the case is based on a blood alcohol reading and you're
holding me down and you're taking it from me I'm not giving evidence against
myself you know the Supreme Court said in the case called Schmerber I think it
was our Mander Schmerber 1970 whatever they said that's not testimonial what
no that's not testimonial feel sobriety test breathalyzer things like that
that's not testimonial they make stuff up all the time they make exceptions they
the Supreme Court so this business that Scalia gives about well we don't
legislate from the bench are you kidding me all the time how about fruit of the
poisonous tree that's what people are suggesting right now they say that the
Muller investigation is so horrible that if I break into a home let's say I'm an
unscrupulous cop and I take something and I seize I grab it without a warrant
and from that piece that thing that I've seized let's say it's a it's a key to the
proverbial locker at the bus station that in the bus station locker there's
cocaine that I got from this key the fruit of the poisonous tree a derivative
fine even that suppress look all you want in the Constitution for that baby
it ain't there some activist court came up with that so I want to judge who knows
when to be active knows when to realize it don't call the Constitution a living
document I know that's a that's a very dangerous thing to say but there are
things that evolve and I'm telling you right now when you have artificial
intelligence when you have cloning GMOs patent copyright you're gonna have
issues that are gonna confound the average Joe war coming up with me all
I know fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info
wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take
advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power
your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most
potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our
incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day
these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight
against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life
and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the
chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely
excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of
vitamin D3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement
it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as
lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content it's completely
free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely
low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source
of vitamin D3 the research and development took over two years but the
result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin
D3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life.com about winter sun
vitamin D3 not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D
supports our memory and brain function something the globalist are targeting
visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a
gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and limit a
free society several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to
create the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina libido workout
brain formula that is safe I know from using this myself the last few months and
from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end
up being the number one best-selling product info wars life.com because it
works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose
equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life.com for
yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non GMO it's for your brain it's for
sports it's for activities and it's made the USA get your alpha power today at
infowarslife.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
years ago info wars life created the powerful myco zx formula to help you
combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the
environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to
help support your gut health myco zx plus is the result of the search for that
formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your
body fight back myco zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in
the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list
of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of
time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new
and improved myco zx plus today at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
everybody line up with you please absolutely effervescent being here
today and I thank you so much by the way this is for Roger Stone I hope my my
cuff links are not too garish for you my sartorial sultan you I love that man now
a couple of things here in New York this week we had alexandria or ratio
Cortez alexandria or ratio what am I saying Cortez blew out Crowley this is
the greatest thing now wait I know what you're thinking they're going crazy with
her there look at that face meet the face of tyranny and stuff alex the the
king of the understatement oh alex yes no no we need this if you think that as
well as awesome your love alexandria or Cassio Cortez this is the greatest thing
that's ever happening because right now they're sitting in the hallowed halls of
the deep state saying holy god what the hell is happening who she's who he's
twice her age Crowley's twice her age spent her 18 to 1 and she basically said
I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna say some things on my own and I'm gonna use my my
Twitter she did a very a great great video by the way that MJ what is it
Hagar the door did you see that video of the woman the door this is this is some
of the best stuff possible so right now Hillary Clinton and others Debbie
Walsham jilton and this crew are saying what do we do what do we do and there's
the grooming her like this is the future they say no this is not the future this
is the greatest thing ever for Trump listen I'm gonna be honest with you or
as my friend says I'm gonna be as honest as I possibly can be which I said what
but I'm gonna tell you I'm not a doctrinaire right-wing left-wing I know
I'm namby-pamby I'm kind of in I don't have any names I'm Carol quickly all
the way two sides of the same coin the paradigm be of the illusion of the
left-right stuff all these words mean nothing to me sometimes I agree with this
one I agree with that one based upon the issue but I don't have any label but I
will tell you this I'm loving Trump oh my god if you had told me that I'd be
having this much fun that I'd be having so much fun in this thick shot in
Freud my wife and I we have these people these these ex-friends of ours who are
going crazy and I have been portrayed by many people to be this right-wing or
okay fine but this is going to play into the midterms into Trump 2020 he's gonna
say ladies and gentlemen do you know what the Democrats are let me go to you
mr. and mrs. mainstream America mr. and mrs. Heartland mr. and mrs. by the way
the heartland isn't the buke or Des Moines it could be Brooklyn it could be
the Bronx Kings County in Brooklyn it can be it's a mindset it means the
average the Gaussian curve just the middle the bell curve the middle just
the regular people I'm gonna say you know what the Democratic Party is here
this is it she wants to get rid of ice she wants to disband completely and
enforcement get this she wants to get rid of that protector of your sovereignty
this is what she wants to do look at this I mean just go to the list now
ladies and gentlemen you go ahead and you do this and Hillary and others are
gonna be thinking oh my god this is not what we're doing because believe it or
not Crowley was more Trump and she is let them go far left and encourage it
encourage her let her build up her cadre because what she also is she
appeals to the disenfranchised Bernie voter see this is the thing that is
interesting you know Trump is gonna one day do his version of the southern
strategy but in a different way he's gonna go after the millennial strategy
he's gonna talk to them and he's gonna say let me explain to you you were left
out by these people you were basically hose part of my friends but you were
hosed you were betrayed betrayed by these people you what you you had your
chance to feel like you had your your candidate Bernie at this she's gonna be
what some some ersatz version some synthetic knockoff of this what we have
in common is the middle class lowering your taxes getting rid of a trillion
dollars of debt that your generation enjoys I am telling you you people
think I'm nuts which I could be but not for this reason you're gonna have Trump
saying listen to me look what he's doing with Kanye
Candace Owens with minister Farrakhan minister Farrakhan and I'm not endorsing
I'm not endorsing him but he said with mr. Trump our his enemy is our enemy
you gotta meet my enemies my friend unbelievable and there and Hillary's
thinking what the hell is going on here Farrakhan Kanye Candace bring them
all what you see what we have right here I want a hip hop summit I want to have
young people African-American Latinos people of color to say that Trump is
cool and can't and I can this but Alexandria Ocasio Cortez is not realistic
yes yes she is she is young yes but this is end to the Louvian her her her
ideologies are all in their odios oceos they're the useless this isn't the way
it works and I also want this message to come up very very loud and clear and
this is the part going back to the because remember this is 14% of the
population African-Americans 14% that this is serious this is serious and we
can say there's no reason for the fight look I'm Donald Trump and you think I'm
some kind of that were antithetical trust me we're on the same page I think
about this the only reason they even care about these these unaccompanied
children the only reason they care about it is one particular reason because they
squandered your vote your vote Latino votes people of color for the not that
everybody who's poor as a Democrat but they have written you off let me ask you
this hypothetical don't you love thought experiments I do assume as we lawyers
say argue window for the sake of argument assume the following what would
happen if Trump could say this alright I make a deal with you Chuck Schumer and
Sotomayor or whatever everybody comes in in fact you just point to him and they
come in I'm gonna meet you $1,000 come on in accompanied unaccompanied I don't
care oh but there's only one condition and you do want him in right oh yes you
you do want him in not political reasons oh no no good they have to sign a
waiver it's a pledge never to vote they have to give up their right to ever
seek the franchise they can come in here we're gonna clip their voting wings
they cannot vote what do you think would happen Schumer these people say are you
out of your mind whoa whoa whoa what happened wait a minute you were worried
about the humanity right I'm saying where you're man open the doors let a man
take care of them love them what are you doing they're gonna say we don't care
about them and by the way let me also say something very very quickly there
was a time in number and in the 80s in Florida where I'm from I want the
Mariel boat lift was there the money elite those that recall in Miami Chrome
Avenue Detention Center you probably remember this they were people who came
and Castro was a genius he emptied his prisons mental hospitals oh he got rid
of the it was the brain drain during the 50s and 60s but this was just not
everybody don't get upset but a lot of people that frankly he just figured I'm
gonna I'm gonna clean out the Looney bin and the who's gal and let them go
because when you're standing there in the Mariel Harbor waiting for your uncle
Guzman you're waiting and they're saying no no you got to take this these people
because your uncle is on the other boat just get out people would come back to
West Coast Miami and Tampa I realized that their loved ones were never picked
up all right suffice it to say in those camps the amount of pedorasi pedophilia
child sex trafficking bartering was because the children were kept together
when you keep them together that's when they're prayed upon now I've hit you
with a lot of stuff I've hit you with so much stuff right now it's unbelievable
and frankly I understand that it can be a bit daunting don't be daunted by this
understand one thing critical thinking is going to set you free this is not
about left and right this is not even about Democrats and Republicans this is
about truth this is about the success of our Republic this is about the future of
this country you can't say that enough it may sound corny to the to the
uninitiated but believe me when I'm telling you this we're in a fight for
our lives and we're not going to get another chance so all I'm saying is this
open your head open your heart and open your mind and realize number one
thing I'm after is truth and comment as you see fit
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic
formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a
powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions
of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid
speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life
wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other
leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and
experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life calm and say
goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life calm do you realize that when you
spread the links from info wars calm when you spread the videos you are
changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist it is
you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that
stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now
changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying
for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their
intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to
info wars calm forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way
the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news
intel you name it and so now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars
calm articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're
listening to but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars calm forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we
are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
