Fear is the passion of slaves, and this man knows no fear, he is Alex Jones.
You know, they produce that line without asking about a year ago, and it's in the computer
and they run it, and I don't like it, so I'm not even going to do the show today, because
it's just something about that false start of that, that I've got to address, it becomes
a pet peeve, it's almost like sonic water torch or something that happens over and over
and over and over and over again, that I can't change, I can't stop it, I guess I can burn
the computer up in there, throw it out of a window, throw it out of an off a cliff.
Now I do know fear, fear of the globalist winning, fear of them running our lives, fear
of their in-game plan succeeding.
I think the person that wrote that line is no longer here, what type of egomaniac would
run a promo line like that?
I'm going to control myself now, I'm going to take a break, because it's 50 times I've
passed that, I'll be taking it off, God!
I have a lot of really important stuff to cover today, I'm going to do the very very
best job I can, here on here, to break it all down today, and let's let there report
and then I'm going to try to come back on the other side of this break.
Let's air instant karma, at least part of it the time we have, from Gary McBrain, Liberals,
instant karma, here it is.
You just saw one of the protesters go up there and actually take a can of that down there.
The guy tries to steal a Trump sign from his neighbor's lawn, watch this, alright so there's
no sound, you can see the guy running on the lawn, trying to steal the sign, gets buzzed,
you get electrocuted when you touch the sign, the homeowner was in state with sick of thieves
stealing his sign, so he bootie trapped it, his neighbor now being charged with trespassing,
this is kind of throwing them right to him, look at that, look at this creature, hey,
what are you doing, what's up, what's up, huh, you're going to pepper spray a man that looks
like he's about 6'4, 250, yeah good luck, they block traffic on a major interstate,
you guys ain't stopping the government, you guys are stopping people from getting home
and you guys are freaking idiots, you guys are freaking idiots, you guys are freaking idiots,
you guys are fucking idiots, you guys are fucking idiots, you guys are going to fuck
克克.
I'm standing here, I don't want to fight, man, I don't want to fight, I don't want to fight, man.
He attacked.
Well, he's having a fight.
No.
The FedEx guy becoming an overnight online celebrity since this video first appeared of him protecting American blacks from being burned during a protest.
Full videos on infowars.com.
We're going to relaunch the transmission on the other side.
T-minus 60 seconds, stand by.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
I am completely overwhelmed right now, like Robbie the Robot when he gets too much information he says cannot compute.
I've got information so heavy on so many fronts that I feel like I just can't do it justice.
You ever have that feeling when you're trying to describe something?
And it's the quickening of it too.
The accelerated, bizarre, mega-level lying of corporate weaponized terror media.
And now the left and mainstream corporate media are trying to cause a civil war, in their own words,
and are trying to terrorize the public, and are the biggest premeditated liars the planet has ever seen.
And then I've got other information hiding in plain view, and I've talked to a bunch of people high up,
and we have Trump's plan for the country, and the fact that he is currently not going to run for reelection,
and was never intending to run for reelection.
He wants to turn the country around, get a whole bunch of peace deals, and then right off in the sunset,
even George Washington served two terms and didn't do that, it's genius.
And his goal, you know how Trump is obsessed with finishing buildings under budget and ahead of schedule.
He's OCD about fixing things, and about things working really well.
And you could see, since he became president, this incredible maverick, the way he got in, everything,
and the way he's turned the country around, much the world around, in just a year and a half,
and then the response by the evil corrupt forces, because they were artificially keeping us in that state,
it's just epic.
And then it makes me very, very sad and upset for my fellow countrymen and women,
that so many of them have bought into the hype, and are just acting like idiot babies,
who buy whatever lies they're told day to day, and don't feel insulted when they learn they were lied to.
That's what's really crazy about all of this, and it really, really frustrates me,
because Trump really is good, he really is telling the truth, he really is,
pragmatically trying to fix things.
And I've known the Democrat leadership is bad news and corrupt, but just to see them doing on a mass scale,
boggles the mind.
And then I saw Roger Stone a few weeks ago, in the news, and then when he's here,
saying he thinks Trump will probably only run for one term, and that it's going to be Pence and Nikki Haley.
And then I talked to some high level people, connected to Trump, I'll just leave it at that.
And I ran it by him, and they basically said, well we're not going to talk about it,
but yeah, that's how he does things, that's what we think he's planning.
And he's told people that his goal is to get out in four years.
Now the re-election he's running is in case he has to stay in,
but it's just basically to lobby the country to get the policies in place that turn it around fully.
And then he'll just step back in the primaries, boom, Pence is in,
and the country's turned around and he just says, hope you enjoy your 5% growth rate,
that's his goal, and just walks off.
And that's a fact. And then it goes into his whole goal of turning it around super quick historically.
If he pulls this off, it'll be so historic, it'll be so good for humanity,
and it'll also discredit collectivism, globalism, and MSM in an irrevocable way.
They're already irrevocably discredited, even if they derail what he's doing.
They're such nasty crooks.
And the president's so genuine, so hardworking, so real, it's just crazy.
And then you compare him to Pelosi and all these Schumer and Maxine Waters
and just the dysfunctional evil, it just blows me away.
I mean, that's big news.
And I guarantee you, when Trump says he's not going to run for reelection,
he thinks things are good enough to step out, and the plans in place, the bigger plan,
that the left go, oh, look, we ran you out, oh, look, you're a failure during all the success.
They're like delusional children, or in Monty Python, the knight that says,
and it wants the shrubbery, and it's got its arms and legs cut off, but it keeps attacking,
saying it's merely a flesh wound.
And they just go on like self-perpetuating motion machines off into the distance with their lives.
I mean, here's one of them, okay?
But how bombshell is that, that I actually asked around a lot of smart people,
and they said, no, no, that's actually Trump's plan.
How heavy is that? How good is that?
He doesn't want the power, he doesn't want his butt kissed, he wants to go play golf.
He likes to go see music shows.
He's disgusted by DC, he's disgusted by the traders, he's disgusted by the dysfunctionalism,
and he even brings in groups to power share with them and says, here, Goldman Sachs,
you'll make even more money than you ever did, just get off America's back,
and they're still after him because they've got a hard on for the country.
The globalists hate America because they were hired by foreign multinationals to do it,
and you've got to hate your country if you're going to sell it out,
so it's a collection of them whose culture is really rooting against this nation.
And then there's this.
I looked at the footage a couple days ago, and I said, that looks staged.
How the little girl, it's only photos, and you hear the crying dubbed over it.
And then they were like, how dare Alex Jones in the news, or news articles,
he says that she was a crisis actor, I didn't say that.
I said, you got a little girl crying out in the dark of the desert,
what little kid wouldn't cry when they're four years old?
Again, my little daughter cries every day when I go to work.
She's 14 months old.
My wife walks out of the room, you know, she starts crying.
She's in that separation point.
They're like, oh, Jones claims she's a crisis actor.
No, I didn't say she's a crisis actor.
I said, it looks staged.
And now we know the little boy had already drowned out there in the military,
and they took him and put him on the side of the shore.
That was staged, that's admitted.
That's what, cover a time all of it stays, and they knew it was staged.
infowars.com, it's got the article, right, Bart's got it, and it's now admitted.
The government's released the documents, fake news, crying child used by Time Magazine,
and CNN was never separated from her mother and sent to a family center,
because they had IDs and could be checked.
Most of the people go to a family center.
The little kids, if they're not with an adult, because their parents got killed,
then they go and are separated from the adults because they don't know who they are.
And all of this comes out but to gall, the will of the media to lie like this
and to know it was fake, and it turns out that night, the media, CNN talked to the border patrol
and they told them, no, they've been taken to a family center, they're united,
because the border patrol is releasing all the information.
I mean, you think about evil, man.
CNN knew that night she wasn't separated, and now they got caught.
There's another article on infowars.com where he's always when we come back.
New York Times mocked after video of unaccompanied migrant children appears to be grown men,
well, they are grown men. I mean, that's how desperate this is.
So, oh, there's the children being separated, and the New York Times goes,
look at the babies, they're alone without their mommies.
The average age looks about 25. Where's their mommy? Where's their mommy?
I mean, this isn't media, this is terrorist disinfo, criminal groups allied with communist China.
They hate Christians, they hate prosperity, and they're hired guns.
They are the true enemies of this country, as the president has said, and they are absolutely crazy.
I tried other friends, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
or bigbrickywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars Life Select's storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars Life Select's storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars Life Select's storable foods.
InfoWars Life Select's storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
Ladies and gentlemen, think about the magnitude of the arrogance.
Think about the magnitude of the criminality.
Think about the criminal intent to create civil war in this country to create physical attacks on people that the Democrats have put out the call,
along with their other globalist operatives, the former CIA director,
pulling disinformation operations against the US population last weekend saying,
you know, Americans like a Nazi sending children to Auschwitz.
And then they show photos from 2014 when they didn't have the new centers they have with the space blankets,
with the people segregated into chain link rooms that you could call cages.
Now we have Time Magazine caught in another gigantic deception along with CNN who was there that night
and then dubbed the audio of a girl crying over the photo of the little girl standing crying in the night
when her mother just took her through the deadly scrub brush desert where over 100,000 people have died just on that border with Texas.
But in the inversion of reality world, Time Magazine has Trump lording over her.
Turns out the articles are on infowars.com.
Turns out the families talk the media.
Turns out ISIS released the information.
She was never separated from her mother.
It was all a giant evil hoax.
But does that stop the media?
Oh no, Donny Dush on MSNBC, excuse me, Donny Deusch, Donny Dodo Bird is thugging out as usual.
He's always threatening people.
And he says Trump supporters are Nazis and they need to be targeted.
So they're going on the media saying target and attack people and shut down conservative speech.
And they send Antifa to places like Charlottesville to attack people.
And then when somebody gets killed, they shoo me and blame me.
You're like, how does that happen?
Exactly, how does that happen?
Because it's about the PR, it's not about the lawsuit being real.
Fake news, crying child used by Time Magazine and CNN was never separated from her mother.
They are safer now than when they were making the journey to the border.
Boy, that puts it lightly.
The image of the crying child on the border that has been used by Time Magazine and CNN to push open border propaganda has been perfectly misleading
given that the Honduran girl was never separated from her mother.
The two-year-old girl, Yanela and her mother, Sandra, were detained in Texas that were attempting to cross the Rio Grande River.
They were detained together and never separated.
I know now they are not in danger, they are safe now than when they were making the journey to the border.
Dennis Javier Hernandez, the little girl's father, told the Daily Mail and there's photos of them all now together.
He added that the two were doing fine but that it was irresponsible of her to take the baby with her in her arms because we don't know what could happen.
Yeah, the father's like, yeah, don't run off into the desert with the baby, that's a good idea.
But oh, see, it's Trump's fault.
Despite the fact that the mother and daughter were never separated, the images become a poster child for bashing the Trump administration.
Zero tolerance border policy and highlighting the heartlessness of separating children from their parents.
Time Magazine released it, latest cover yesterday with an image of Trump looking down a crying child alongside the words,
Welcome to America. And then it goes on documenting the fact that it's all fake.
And there's other articles from Breitbart with the I statement, she named it.
But don't stop there, the New York Times thinks you're so dumb, they run footage of full grown men being detained because they can't find any footage of children.
And there's like, look at these poor children without their mommies, it actually says it, without their mommies.
A few of those guys look like they might be 16, a couple of them are 25 years old, nobody's younger than 16 there.
But why not? Why not show old people on walkers and say, here are the babies left by their mommies?
Why the stork just dropped these people off?
Unbelievable.
That's up on infowars.com.
So New York Times mocked, but it gets better.
Venezuela now has no rule of law.
Reuters is reporting that it basically has totally collapsed.
Thousands are starting to death a week now, but they've passed a law saying you can't cause starvation and millions are on their way north.
I'm sure that'll be my fault too, and your fault.
Because us gringos are so evil, everybody's killing themselves to get up here around all the evil gringos.
That's not bad news. Gringos are all dying off.
Gringos will be 30% of the population in just 20 years.
We're half the population now.
The jobs of the Hispanics that are the future of America will be taking care of the old white people.
And then vice versa after that.
But it doesn't matter, the Democratic Party wants to inoculate you with total racism and total brainwashing.
And that leads me now to Mr. Deutsch, MSNBC analyst saying we're all Hitler now.
That's right. All of us need to be attacked because we're all helping Hitler.
We're all Nazis for separating children when it was going back to 1630 in quarantine at Ellis Island, right through to today.
But instead of six months, it's two days on average.
And then that's in rarer cases because 73% of the children coming in don't even have parents with them.
And in many cases they were killed in Mexico by the smugglers, by the coyotes, by the banditos.
But that doesn't matter. Just put a fake story out and feel all good about yourself.
And you just watch the fuggishness of MSNBC.
I mean, how far will they go? When will they stop? Never.
Because they had America under their control and their religion is dominating and destroying this country.
And the WikiLeaks read their own statements, tell us that Bill Maher wants to make you poor, wants a depression.
These are jerks. Thank God a sane person's in there like Trump trying to stop him.
Thank you, Jesus, for delivering us with prayers. Let's go to Deutsch.
What has to happen now, this can no longer be about who Trump is. It has to be about who we are.
If we're working towards November, we can no longer say Trump's the bad guy.
If you vote for Trump, you're the bad guy. If you vote for Trump, you are ripping children from parents' arms.
The mistake that we've made in the past is look at that bad guy over there, look at that bad guy.
What the Democrats have to do is make the next election a referendum.
I'm not who Trump is, but who you are.
If you vote for Trump, then you, the voter, you not Donald Trump, are standing at the border, like Nazis, going, you here, you here.
And I think we now have to flip it, and it's a given the evilness of our country.
You've already been bullying us, you've already been attacking us.
You guys have already been saying, right, Baron Trump, kidnapping, we get it. You're a thug. You're a thug.
I think somebody's going to check you.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally, someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them the library, to give them the courage to get them right now at KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
KillingUncleSamBuck.com.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Okay, guest your day. I dropped the ball, and I apologize. But I intend to open the phones up throughout the next two and a half plus hours that we have left of my main broadcast on this Friday.
And to take your calls, first time callers, long time callers, so I'll ask you to have a good clean telephone so I can hear you, and that you be on the specific topics that we're laying out here.
Trump really is planning to not run for reelection.
But his campaign to turn the country around is a thousand percent real. It's just that his goal is to get so much done that he sets the country back on the right track and then pulls back.
That's the classiest thing you could ever do. And I'm going to talk about that more later in the broadcast I did earlier, but I first heard that from Roger Stone and then it clicked.
That's exactly how Trump operates. I talked to some other folks and they said, that's the working goal.
And so that cuts into the whole theory that Pence wants to try to, you know, get in there or run after in 2024. No, he's being readied.
I mean, this is just so 21st century stuff here. An executive comes in, turns the company around, pulls out.
So the second term is never as good as the first, even if you have a good president. This is his real executive action.
And I'm just going to leave it at that, that I've talked to a lot of high level people. I talked to some folks a couple of days ago and I made some more phone calls yesterday.
And I'm going to stop right there because there's a lot of delicate points to this that I probably shouldn't get into.
But just the mere fact that I'm telling you that this is really the working model, it's not just something that Roger Stone thinks knowing the president.
It's really the working plan. How classy is that?
And the president's totally pragmatic. He'll work with anybody. He's just not here to destroy the country.
It's very sick that the globalists have done everything they can to shell this country out to their own enrichment.
And I've got stacks of news here today where the communist Chinese are being rolled up at 50 U.S. universities.
They've been caught running many of them. Well, yeah, we've been wide open.
And that's why Hillary and all them are so scared because they're trying to remove these guys and have them just go away in a peaceful way.
But they're going to be removed one way or the other. But they just don't know how to quit. So it's going to make it a lot worse for them.
Now, you probably notice you always hear about stuff here first because truth is so outlandish.
Other people who are libertarians or conservatives don't want to say it because everybody was preconditioned that none of this globalism was going on for decades.
So they're still like this thing of its life, not polite to talk about it or you might get attacked.
So it's recognized that my job is to hit the barbed wire.
And, you know, I've been told just yesterday to continue exactly what I'm doing. Well, I'd do that anyways.
But I've been told again you are on target.
This is a operation of anybody that wants to turn the country around, you can join it.
And all of you globalists that side with Hollywood and the EU, the unelected EU and the chai comms and all you shame on you, shame on you.
I mean, we have been totally basically taken over.
And at the 11th hour, a desperate group of patriots already awakened through the American people came together and we put somebody in who wanted to turn it around and had the courage.
Who was on a kamikaze mission to carry this out and to try to get out of there as quick as possible.
This is the opposite of those governmental sycophants.
Trump can't stand DC. He can't stand all of this. He wants to retire.
But he's sentimental and will not watch the country torn into pieces.
And the military pissed all over and the veterans drug to the mud and just why he's like why it's a beautiful big country.
We could dominate the whole world with soft power. Why do you want to piss all over it?
Because they hate the country because there are enemies and that's what he says now.
And for the president, it's been an awakening. He knew a lot of this.
And his dad always told him this.
But once he became president and learned all the secrets, it was worse than he knew.
And he's like you got to be kidding.
We've got all these high tech space weapons and platforms and we're not going to tell everybody.
We've got cures for cancer. We're not going to tell everybody.
Because you watch, that's the next stuff he's going to start bringing out.
And they are so pissed because that's all supposed to be the globalist and theirs and they dole it out to who they want.
And then I see all of you that don't want to get on board with this.
I feel sorry for you.
And now you got Donnie Deutsch saying get in Trump voters faces. They're Nazis.
They're trying to cause a civil war.
Meanwhile, you guys are literally funded by a known Nazi collaborator who helped round up thousands of Jews and sent them to their deaths.
And then you tell us we're Nazis. No, we're the Americans.
Remember, he served Hitler, not me, not my grandfathers, not my country, not my country.
And I am sick of MSNBC and everybody thinking that we're so weak-minded that you tell us we're Nazis.
And we go please don't do that.
You people are the closest things to Nazis, the EU.
That's all backing you up.
The Junker is the heir to the Nazi fortune.
But see, I have the disease of information.
I'm actually informed. So I see these liars. It makes me mad.
The toll-free number to join us is 877-789-ALIX, 877-789-2539, 877-789-ALEX.
What do you think about the hoax of CNN coming out and time and knowing that girl was taken to an immigrant family living center that night
and that they had actually talked to them and knew where it was going.
They're like, no, we're not separating them. We're going to the family center. This is where it's at.
And the family's up there days later. Everything's going on.
The father says, I can't believe she ran off with my daughter to the U.S.
This is so dangerous. Why'd she do that? Why'd she run to the desert?
He's apologizing to America?
Yeah, because that's a normal person who isn't completely crazy.
We didn't do anything but save a mother who's crazy and her sweet little daughter.
But that's our fault. See, we're the Nazis, remember?
Okay, we need funding and I make it easy to fund us. We sell our direct products in super blue fluoride-free, concentrated toothpaste.
Four to five o'cloid silver and iodine is produced by the biggest organic toothpaste producer in the country,
private labeled by us with our own special recipe designed by my father, a dentist and oral surgeon.
And it is very, very popular and it is 50% off.
It's our total best seller, not money-wise, but it's the thing we sell the most of per bottle, per tube.
And people say, well, then why are you going to sell it 50% off?
Because there's a lot of product in this. This costs two or three times more of what regular toothpaste doesn't produce
because it's concentrated, there's not fillers and it's got amazing things that have been added to it.
I'm doing it because a lot of folks sit on the fence until there's a big shale and then they try it and then they're hooked.
So I want you to get hooked. It's great for your teeth, great for your body. Learn what iodine colloidal silver do with this proprietary formula.
It's very powerful, very kind. We also have it for children, the toothpaste, the mouthwash, the immune gargle.
It's all 50% off right now at infowarslife.com or AAA-2533-139.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have an InfoWars life. They take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preguinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you,
the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together.
We're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield, InfoWarsLive.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLive. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLive wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLive.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLive.com.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
We are back live on this Friday global transmission. 877-8789. Alex is the number. Getting your calls queued up. We have a member of the European Union Parliament joining us.
He's been on before, has been valiantly fighting against the draconian actions of the EU permanent bureaucracy that's over the parliament.
And is engaging in all sorts of criminal activity trying to keep the UK in Brexit despite the fact that they voted to pull out.
And she's fighting the passage of Article 13 and 11 that passed committee two days ago. And that even liberal publications like Wired say breaks the internet, ends the internet.
So we're in a global war with the EU and the globalists. They are really trying to shut things down. That's all coming up.
And your phone call. She's off for two seconds.
Now, House Republicans threatened DOJ FBI officials with contempt in document fight. Rosenstein, what did we say in January last year?
Find out about those FISA warrants and how they were illegally obtained. You bring them down. Now you notice that's the top story in the country.
Because we know our stuff. And I just keep pointing that out. Policy wonks, governments, foreign governments, intelligence agencies, the White House.
The Pentagon, the CIA, the Trump reelection campaign, which is just a plan B if they can't turn the country around completely by the next year and a half or so.
They listen because this is the only place you tune in where you're going to get the real dope. And I keep explaining that to people.
That's why Soros or somebody listens. They're horrified.
They reportedly told people I've talked to. It's like, yeah, does Jones have intelligence agencies telling them all this? How does he know it all?
Because I've been studying you guys forever. I know your moves. And I just want the listeners to understand we know what we're talking about here.
I said that photo and the dubbed in audio looked fake to me. And it turns out the whole thing was fake.
The little girl went to a family center and stayed with her mother. But the Democrats are now saying that's Nazi. Just don't even stop people, period.
Just have no border. Really? We're all Nazis? That doesn't even make sense, does it? But that's the point these people have gotten to.
And we know what's in the Rosenstein memos. We know it's in the FISA court warrants. They say they have proof that Trump has been paid by Russians.
And they lied to get the information. The FISA court put a memo out last year saying we were lied to three times for warrants.
They've already tried to cover their butts so that later when this all comes out, oh, look, we didn't know, the court says, we were just lied to.
But it's bigger than that. Because there's then notes going back to POTUS and that would be Barack Hussein Obama. Barack Hussein Obama.
If they release all the files that DOJ has that Congress has total oversight right to see, it doesn't expose intelligence.
It doesn't hurt national security unless you're a globalist that sees national security being them staying in charge.
Arrogant Obama. Arrogant Comey. Arrogant Mueller. All of them. Arrogant Strach. Arrogant McCabe.
And their wives and people at Fusion GPS and a half million dollars from Hillary to McCabe. I mean, this is criminal on its face.
And Obama telling ABC News in the world he never had anything to do with Hillary's server. And he's all in her server using a code name.
Heard the code names Frank Marshall Davis, his dad's name. I'm being sarcastic. That'd be a funny tweet, though. That is his dad.
The whole Kenya thing got inserted in the fake documents and stuff. And his wife saying he was from Kenya.
And, you know, him saying in the Harvard Review that he was the editor of the law journal that he was born in Kenya.
That was all his earlier story. He's such a liar. We finally found out his dad was one of the leaders of the Communist Party, the leader in Hawaii,
and a famous pornographer. And there's videos and photos of his mom and lesbian sex scenes. But Betty Page style actresses.
It's pretty tasteful stuff, actually. But the point is, is that we now know who he is. He's got a rock and roll pass. Let me tell you.
Barack Hussein Obama, more than meets the eye. Obama had direct contact with Clinton on private email server IG report.
Yeah, running the whole big fat stinking ball game, weren't they?
We're not going to let him get elected. We're not going to let him get in the White House. We've got an insurance policy.
We're going to stop him. I just briefed President Clinton. President Clinton.
You know, she was known in Obama's cabinet as the co-president. That was their deal. That woman was co-governor, for what, three terms.
Then she was co-president for two terms. And now she was co-president for two more. She's been in the White House for four terms.
And she wanted a fifth and a sixth if she could get it. Like Matt Dredge said, they'd have her brain in a jar up there.
They won't let me die. They won't let me go. It's such a joke to them.
So she could run us in the ground more and sell us out in the chai comps. This is a woman out of college.
When she got her law degree, she got thrown off the Watergate Committee from falsifying evidence.
And then she went and her first job was representing child rapist and child kidnappers. She chose to go into that.
Why would you do that? Because you're letting the world of that type of stuff know. She would represent rich men.
She was letting them know, hey, I'll pal around. I'll drink whiskey. I'll smoke cigars. I'll pick up chicks with you.
And I like hurting people, too. You know, there's audio tapes.
Her laugh and I knew he really raped her. I knew they raped her. Which made me not believe in polygraphs anymore because he passed it.
I mean, he told me he raped her.
Want to sign on to that? I'm not signing on to that. Put a gun to my head. I'm not signing on to that.
She chose to represent pedophiles and rapists of children specifically. That was her specialty.
And of course, she's into Aleister Crowley rituals. Of course, it came out the news. She does all this witchcraft.
She told Larry Nichols. She said, I worship the devil.
And she told Libya. Now, let's hear some of her laughing real quick. Go ahead and turn this up.
It's not a laughing matter. I take it really seriously.
And this is who the Democrats worship and love.
And then it's about Bill Clinton. And he's got all the rape stuff in Alita Express and Epstein and Weinstein and...
Sex cults and torture cults and devil cults and cults where the women are all anorexic and brainwashed into their slaves.
But she cares about a woman, a woman, a woman, a woman, a woman, a woman, a woman. She made her bones, didn't she? Helping women.
Because the next best thing to hurt in babies is hurting women. You get that? High marks with Beelzebub for that.
What? We came, you saw, and you died.
We're gonna break your will, Hillary. We already have.
We came, you saw, and you died.
It's called karmic enforcement, witch.
Vengeance belongs to God. God sends instruments with vengeance.
And you know the instrument of your destruction, don't you, witch?
Yes, demon, I see you. Get her off.
Enemy. She will pay and is already paying.
Oh, see, I don't take on women and children. I take on devil worshipers and those that abuse women and children.
And then you'd say, oh, I'm a woman and I'd say, whoever says you was one.
You're just a woman's body, a demon's wearing like a sheet. Don't forget, the toothpaste is awesome.
Fluoride-free, 4-5-4-9-9, it's 50% off, and all those superfood products are 50% off.
Stock up, but it's really for people who have never tried it, experience it.
It's unbelievable, and it funds this operation, and 33% off on knockout.
25% off on Alexa Pure Breeze, incredible air filtration systems.
Fund us and take down the witch.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for exuding properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
That's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
A lot of his supporters believe that we are the enemy of the American people and that is really, really an awful situation.
We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people.
We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people. We love the American people. We love the American people.
They came in peace.
We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people.
This is CNN.
And this is infowars.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are resistance.
All right, we have a guest joining us for two segments coming up here in about four minutes and then I am going directly to Johnny, Chris, Gregory, James, Mike, Julian, Jeff, Gayfrog and others.
And you know, used to, I would always just go from the top to the bottom.
The newest or oldest and newest caller.
And then sometimes we're like picking this caller or that caller on topics.
Yeah, I'm just going to go top down. Johnny, Chris, Gregory, Dushaw, Kossie.
My eyes are not 2015 anymore. I need to get a bigger screen over there. James, Mike, Julian, Jeff and Gayfrog and others.
And I'm going to go bam, bam, bam though.
Bam, bam, bam.
Now in the spirit of that, let's just go ahead and get one in here right now.
Let's talk to Johnny in Ontario, Canada. Go ahead, Johnny.
Hey, my friend, how are you?
I'm all right. That reminds me of Johnny Be Good. I think we got that in the player from.
Well, I kind of think Johnny Bravo, but I gotta say one sidebar for you really quick.
That X2, I had a massive cut on my back of my hand from a stall last week and I didn't have any iodine.
So I used that and the thing is knitting up great. I don't know if it's not a doctor's appointment, but there's no infection or anything.
Well, real pure iodine, no one ever decided to actually find it or put it out like we did.
It's very hard to get a deep breath crystal source. It's a building block of the body and the globalists know that.
So again, they target us with all the bad halogens and then don't want us to know about the good halogens.
It really is the missing link.
Yeah. As far as the missing, as far as the girl goes crying for her money, that was all freaking political theater.
Crudope, the golden boy up here, he won an election by it and I'm just discussing with him.
Yeah, Trudeau's, I don't even defend bringing ISIS people back that shot US military and Canadian military and killed them.
And they actually go, no, we like Al Qaeda and ISIS that actually kill our soldiers.
The left, it's a sacrament. It's like the left letting the guy out that shot the lady in the back and killed her while she was with her dad.
And it's just like in Germany, that 14-year-old girl got kidnapped, tortured, murdered, raped, tortured, murdered.
And they tried to have a minute of silence in the parliament. They booed it and shut it down.
They said, no, no, no. Think about that. Think about the hate of the left. Who are these people?
Hey, I'm a vet and I've started with American soldiers. A friend of mine is an American soldier trying to get a permanent residency here in Canada.
And they won't even talk to him really. He's been on, they filed for him.
If you're an honorably discharged member of the military, sir, they have the Office of Personnel Management, the Chinese do.
They have a whole spy base at UT. It's run by the Chinese Communist Intelligence Agencies. That's even in the news.
And they have the Office of Personnel Management data files and then they run it through that.
And if you are a patriot or a nationalist, you don't get a job. Think of the level of the sabotage we're under.
I've been there all the way, buddy. You take care. You have a good weekend. I'm serious.
I really appreciate you, Johnny. All right. We got the Member of Parliament on incredible important information for two segments.
And then I'm going to your phone calls. I've been a good boy. I just went to one.
I want to hear what you have to say. Infowars.com, newswars.com.
By the way, it's in mainstream news today that they caught the Communist Chinese taking over 50 U.S. universities.
I want to plow into all of this. But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy T-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from Infowars.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at Infowars.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well. Infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Starring in my head, wrapped up in silence, all circuses dead. Can I be cold? My whole life spins into a frenzy.
Can you believe that just what we thought? The little girl was all staged, dubbed over crying.
Her mother came from Central America. The father is mad at her, just saying, oh my God, she risked our baby's life. This is crazy.
Thank you, USA for saving her. That's the thing about some of these immigrants themselves are really nice people.
And they're common sense. They're not blaming America. It's our media doing it. And it turns out it's all fake.
She's at the Migrant Center with her mother and was never separated. The family's gone public. It's in the Daily Mail.
Now they're giving the ICE permission to come out and make statements. This is going to really blow up in their face.
And I think President Trump should invite the mother and the father, fly him here and the baby girl up and have a discussion about the collapsing stuff going on in the country they came out of.
And why they're doing this. And we want to try to help you, but we can't encourage more of this. This is dangerous.
And so you were in the center. You were never taken from your mommy. And then CNN comes out.
And the New York Times comes out and they're now running video of military age men being put in vans that come across the border saying, look at the babies.
They don't have their mommies. The leap it takes for them to think you're so dumb that I'm so dumb that they would show guys that look like their ages 25 to 16 and go, look, this group of boys without their mommies.
It's like if you put a crocodile on screen and say it's a giraffe. Just because you put it on screen, little babies without their mommies. So desperate for propaganda.
And you know, there's nobody more awake than Hispanic Americans on the border. You go down there. They're like, are you kidding? We need more people down there. There's dangerous. It's a few miles over there. Death destruction.
It's pouring over. We need help. What do you mean? Just let people walk over here. We're going to become Mexico. We have our guests.
We need to work on that. We're getting our guests lined up via Skype from Europe. EU Parliament chair cuts off Janice Atkinson, who is a shining example of the whole Brexit party that's spreading across Europe.
And she got cut off during her parliamentary speech saying you're going too fast. This is how they're trying to keep people from having their speech. And the same EU system, the unelected bureaucracy that's on top of it, is telling them that they're going to now try to pass next month.
Article 13 and Article 11 that we're going to be going over for you, that details the end of the Internet as we know it. And that's even leftist tech publications say that. I mean, it's not just banning memes. It's unbelievable.
So that's all coming up. But first, let's play a clip. EU Parliament chair cuts her off, cuts her mic off. Romanian MEP tells her, go home.
And then we have a nasty verbal exchange with her and the leader of the UK Conservatives about Tommy Robinson. Let's play both of those. The fireworks are heating up.
Month after month. Trump and Kim, let's celebrate it. Austria, Italy, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia, we're all moving on. Your regime has become more and more irrelevant.
In London on Saturday, 20,000 people attended a rally to free political prisoner Tommy Robinson. And those 20,000 people supported Brexit. In May, another 10,000 people marched in in support of free speech.
They too support Brexit. 17.4 million people voted for Brexit. They still support Brexit. The majority of the people want the government to get on with Brexit.
You people entertain UK homeowners. The modern-day devil, George Soros, a foreigner kicked out of his own country. An open borders billionaire who openly support fights democracy.
He openly pays MEPs to dance to his tune. You're all suffering from DDD, democracy deficit disorder. And that's why we're marching again in London on the 23rd of June.
We want that country back. Don't cut me off. You're going too fast. Can you listen? Because I think we both speak English, so we can be very clear.
What I was trying to do was help you communicate. You are going far too fast for the interpreter.
I'm not speaking to all of them in here. I'm speaking to the UK. I'm speaking to Mrs May.
I wasn't sent here to talk to any of you. I was sent here to defend the British people.
Colleagues, please. Please, just a little bit of quiet. English is the language of the world. She cuts her off.
I just say to you, as somebody who speaks very clear English, in this chamber, we are all elected by citizens.
And the one remark that I had some concern about was your opening line where you said, you lot. Because as far as I'm concerned, we are all elected by citizens to represent our citizens many points of view.
She cuts her mic off so she can take her time and then say, no, the EU didn't lose when England voted to leave.
And again, that's the ceremonial parliament. They had the bureaucracy above it, and it runs it.
So this is how they want to silence everybody. This is emblematic of it. Here it is.
Your contribution. Mr. Wolf, one minute, please. Thank you.
Thank you very much. It seems that you, Mrs. Atkinson, as well, you are speaking only to UK, to Mrs. May, and to the British people.
Why are you here within the European Parliament? You should have to go home to speak. Because here you speak to the European Parliament.
Back to 20 seconds. This is so incredible. You've got this Romanian member of parliament saying, you need to go home.
You need to get out of here if you don't want to address us. So they do this little bureaucratic leftist nudge where they go, oh, you're speaking too fast.
She's not speaking fast, but a regular cadence. You're going too quick for the interpreter.
Then they cut her off, dress her down, then another guy jumps in. Oh, let me jump in and bully the lady.
We don't have any ladies around here. Why don't you go home? Why don't you go? She's trying to get out of the EU.
That's what she just said. We want to leave. You're a corrupt thing. We don't want to be part of it. We pulled out, followed our vote.
He's like, you do not want to be with us. You go. We run you. We tell you what to do. We open you up to Islam. But then you do what we say now.
Let's finish up with it. Just unbelievable. Here it is.
Speaking only to UK, to Mrs. May and to the British people. Why are you here within the European Parliament? You should have to go home to speak.
Because here you speak to the Europeans. You speak to all the European Union countries and people. Why don't you go home?
Probably it might be time. Thank you.
Well, thank you. I will be going home at the end of March in 2019, thanks to the 17.4 million people that decided Brexit was a brighter future for Britain outside of the European Union.
But I also do speak for those people up there who understand that there is a class war going on in Europe as well.
A class war that is seeking to deny those who have been voted in Poland and Hungary, in Slovenia.
People who have voted for those in Germany and the AFD, for those in Holland, those in France, those who seek a different future for Europe.
Not an orientated future.
And then they cut his mic off.
We're going to break here. We've got our guest, Janice Atkinson on with us, JaniceAtkinson.co.uk.
The 40 seconds we have, is the irony not lost on them that you're trying to leave them and they're telling you, shut up and go home?
Yeah. Do you know Alex? That was a Romanian MEP and he's a socialist as well.
I shouted across the chamber, why don't you take back the 50,000 Romanians that have been invading my country for the past few years?
50,000 arrived ever since we allowed them to exceed the European Union. So for four years we've got about 200,000 of them leaving my country.
And most of them, 90% of them are committed.
Alright, we'll be back on the other side with Janice Atkinson. I'm Alex Jones, infowars.com, newswars.com.
Spread those live links. Soros is getting run out of Europe. It's a beautiful thing. We're winning.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to 9 to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
Patrick, in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex. I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when Info Wars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool.
I've read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality, the caveman, the real red pill, micro-ZX body.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there, 1770s worldwide.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Alex Jones back live next segment. Your phone calls, folks. Janice Atkinson is an amazing member of the EU Parliament. It's ceremonial.
But they voted a lot of things and the permanent bureaucracy likes it. They then go along with it. But more and more, they're shutting down the nationalist, patriot movements within it that are using the parliament as a bully pulpit to expose the authoritarian nature of the EU that was actually hatched by Adolf Hitler.
So in this 10 minutes we have, you've got the floor, Janice. I'm glad we fixed your Skype problems. JaniceAtkinson.co.uk. People just joined us. The amazing footage of them silencing you and other nationalists just from your speech, saying you speak to us, not to your country.
Just next level and you tie that in with people trying to pull out all over Europe. You tie that in to the GDPR. You tie that in to Article 13, Article 11 that even leftist media says ends free speeches. We know it. I mean, they are really panicking. What's going on over there right now?
You know, Alex, we might have got rid of Soviet communism, but we've really got Euro-communism and it's alive and well with centralized state control and no free speech is allowed unless it's approved by the dear leaders.
Because actually, we took the break out of the wall for Brexit and what we've seen is that the edifice is now coming down. So across Poland, across Hungary, in Italy, in Austria, the people are revolting. They're actually voting in the populist leaders.
So, yeah, the equivalent of Brexit in Italy. My good friend, Matteo Salvini is now the Interior Minister and he's shutting down mosques and he's sending home imams and he is rejecting 500,000 immigrants.
They're doing this exactly the same with my friends who are in the Freedom Party for Austria. And of course, over in Poland and Hungary, they're saying that they're not going to accept the migrants that could be imposed upon us.
So what's actually happening is that you are seeing a fight, a very existential threat to their actual federalist being. So they've got elections in May 2019.
Hopefully, the UK won't be there, but they're fighting for their real life. They're fighting for the ideal of this Europe that they've sent up with this centralized state control.
And because the people are revolting all over the Europe, as you did in America with Trump, and you've got to get rid of Trudeau in Canada, you know, the edifice is falling down.
So what they're trying to do is control our speech. And I wasn't just shut down about talking about Brexit. And that speech, I have my one minute.
You're only allowed to have a minute. You're not allowed to have any more. They cut you down. They stop you just before that minute, whereas others go on for adding for an item.
I also asked a question, an urgent human rights question about Tommy Robinson to UK Conservatives. I don't call on the European Parliament to do anything.
So my question was directly to the UK Conservatives. As soon as I said, I have got an urgent human rights question, I am given the floor because that's what happens before voting.
And then I was shut down. As soon as I mentioned Tommy Robinson in the urgent human rights question, my microphone went off immediately and the whole place erupted apart from our side, who has been standing up for Tommy.
He's been an issue across the whole of the EU. But again, there's no free speech unless it's approved by the dear leaders.
You know, I have several articles here today where, as you said, just a few months ago, you were talking about your colleague might be able to form a coalition and take back Italy, and then boom, it's happened.
And you have to understand, these are mosque openly calling for the overthrow of Europe for killing of Christians. These are these are imams that are connected to ISIS, al-Qaeda, that they're shutting down.
These are moderate things. And then now you've got these major, quote, refugee NGOs that are funded by Soros and now Italy's announcing that they're going to use their navy to seize those ships.
And so the EU responds saying, no, we're going to have an EU navy to counter you. There it is. Italy moves to seize two migrant rescue ships.
Well, no, those are migrant ferries out of North Africa. I mean, it's just a brazen globalist invasion. It's incredible. And Europe is awakening and Soros is panicking.
He's being run out of hungry. Tell us what's happening.
Yeah, of course, you've got the NGOs and the charities that are funded by our taxpayer and of course the UN. So you've got medicines on frontier, the Red Cross, etc.
They're aiding and abetting these people to cross the Mediterranean. And the UN is just opining on Twitter every single day.
So many people lost at sea. So many people are dying. But my message and our message is to the refugees, the real refugees, you should be registering in the first port of that you actually come to.
But the EU wants to stop that next month. There is a vote to say, let's get rid of the doubling rules. And so therefore they can redistribute it all over.
But what we're saying is that the message that should go out to Africa because Africa's population is going to double in the next 10 years. What's going to happen?
So we should be telling those people there's no jobs. There's no houses. There's no welfare. There's no cash. There's no magic rainbow. There's no magic.
We need to develop Africa. They need to be made first world, stabilize their population. We can't bring them in as a permanent client state.
But 90% of the refugees five years later don't have a job of the leftist, of the socialist. They're just bringing in a detonator of people that are not compatible because of radical Islam, who they can detonate politically.
I mean, well, that's my opinion. Why do you think the globalists are trying to bring in these populations that don't assimilate?
I think there's this white guilt that they've had, this colonialism guilt from France to Germany to us, etc. They absolutely hate our culture and identity. And don't forget, those open borders have let 50,000 jihadis in.
And we've got another thousand jihadi wives that want to come back to the Middle East. These bleeding heart left liberals think that these people should be allowed back into our country.
And don't worry, they'll re-assimilate. We can de-radicalize them. You can't de-radicalize them. You can't take your strip away.
Well, I was going to add, just like Italy and Germany, now Spain is throwing thousands of people, old people out of their government housing, and sometimes people's own hotels to house them and then don't even pay them.
And then you've got the federal police laughing about it. I mean, what does the left think this is going to do? You don't have the leftist, like J.K. Rowling, letting people in her mansions.
She just wants poor people thrown out to put them in there. I mean, the left has become like just crazy psychotics.
Yeah, they'll produce a Twitter feed, and they're just virtue-sickling. I was down in southern Spain a couple of weeks ago, and I was talking to their Guardia Civil, which is a bit like a sort of militarized police force.
And he said they had 20,000 migrants come to the southern Spain last year, and many more that slipped through that they couldn't actually find.
And he reckons that this year, because of the closing off of Italy now, there's going to be doubling that. So the Guardia Civil are actually expecting 40,000.
Now, some of your American viewers would be interested in this. These guys carry guns, and there's two enclaves of Spanish soil in Morocco, in Malilla and Cuta.
So these Guardia Civil are there. They built the rule wall just like Trump wants to build, but these migrants, they take 49 seconds to jump over, and when they come over, they've got knives, they've got weapons.
But do you know what? The guys, the Guardia Civil are not allowed to shoot. They're not allowed to defend themselves, and these guys are hurtling at them, all fit, young men, economic migrants running off.
I don't want to capture the Islamic areas, and I'm not against all Muslims, but we need a little reconquista all over Europe that the Spanish originally launched that led in the Crusades.
The Crusades were a response to being invaded and being attacked, and Europe needs to reestablish its borders, not give over Kosovo, not just like we gave away Turkey and Constantinople.
No, this is, we're being conquered. Now, we've got a loaded phones, I'm going to write to people when we come back, but I want to do a few more minutes with you just to ask, looking at your crystal ball, the exploding nationalism, populism awakening, how strong is it, how far will it go, and how will Soros and others strike back?
Janice Atkinson is our guest, and when we come back live aside, we'll also look a little bit at Article 1311 that has passed out of committee to end the internet as we know it. It's Friday. I'm Alex Jones. Stay with us.
Alkaline and antioxidant water, anywhere you want it. Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost energy. The Dillon bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dillon bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
It's an o-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest, fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantum product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process, with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantum base, the Real Red Pill, will quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra, pick me up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost at it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only available at infowarslife.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today at infowarslife.com.
Well, so does he. Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
I don't mind you coming here. Wasting all my time.
Ladies and gentlemen, major history is happening. The unelected global government model of the Communist Chinese, the EU, the rest of it.
It is imploding. It is falling apart right now. And nationalism and free market populism is coming back. It's surging.
We're going to finish up with Janice Atkinson of JaniceAtkinson.co.uk. And folks, the videos, there's hundreds of them of what she and others are doing.
And there's all these new great people from more than 25 countries in the EU that won out.
Because the EU is this bureaucracy that the elites or tax exempt that are in the EU bureaucracy. It's just crazy how arrogant they are.
But most of them are former Eastern Bloc bureaucrats. And then they're making Europe fall apart.
And the UK is trying to pull out so she was silent. So finishing up Janice.
Your prognosis, other experts prognosis, Nigel Farage's prognosis. I remember the week before they voted in Italy and all this happened.
I talked to him on the phone. He predicted it all. He said, watch Alex. Europe's on fire. Italy's about to explode.
You've got coalition governments of leftist and right-wingers coming together.
Because even the leftists know they're about to lose their pension funds, everything.
I mean, this is the perfect storm. Soros is panicking. He's being kicked out of Hungary.
Merkel, they say, could be removed by as early as two weeks from now. Even their fake polls have 60% against her.
So looking at the trajectory of this as a member of the EU parliament, where's it going?
I think the young people are going to change their countries in Eastern Europe, in Eastern Europe, in Hungary, Poland, etc.
They haven't had the liberal left education system that has blown our children's minds.
That's happening. There's great patriotic movements amongst the youth there.
And in the southern European states like Italy, Spain and Greece, there's extremely high unemployment.
So they have gone to vote for the Matielsa beanies of this world and the right-wing governments and even the five-star movement.
So the liberal left, the greens of five-star. So there's this sort of awakening that's happening.
There's high unemployment here. The way they've been educating people, we've got to try and change that in our schools and our universities.
Where's it all going? We've got movements like generation identity, the groups of patriotic young people that are growing very, very fast
because what they're trying to do is preserve our culture and our heritage and our identity.
And in the UK tomorrow, we've got another march for freedom for Brexit because tomorrow it's two years since we voted for Brexit.
It still hasn't been delivered yet, but we expect 20, 30,000 people on the streets tomorrow.
Those people are not voting conservative. They're not voting socialist. They're looking for something new to vote for.
Two weeks ago, we had 20,000 people on the streets outside Downey Street and Whitehall just demanding that Tommy Robinson has been released.
So you've got 50,000, 20,000, 100,000 people going on these marches demanding that they want their freedom, their freedom of speech to free Tommy Robinson
and also to leave the European Union. They're demanding this. And if Whitehall doesn't listen to them, then those people are looking for a new home.
And I think something new will arise. There is definitely room on the center right to harness this growing belief in our nation states and our freedom.
And just because the leftist globalist identity politics media possesses on it, I want to point something out.
Just when I watch EU parliament meetings, there is a large amount of smart, good-looking, dynamic women from Marie Le Pen to you that are leading so much of this now.
Instead of what we've got with Theresa May, I saw Kurt seeing to the prints the other day. She looks like a retarded spider. I'm sorry.
This whole dichotomy, that's got to scare them too of all the women that are coming into leadership roles just in nationalist and populist movements.
Yeah, you're absolutely right. I was talking to a couple of people last week.
It's strange that it's me, Lauren Southern, Katie Hopkins, that have all been to South Africa and we're highlighted.
Somebody said to me, are you speaking together? Are you coordinating your campaigns? I said, no, we're not. But we are speaking now.
All three of us have been to Russia recently and saying, look, they're not our enemy.
It's China who is an economic enemy, but certainly not Russia who is our enemy. The Cold War is over.
And then we start talking about sort of right-wing politics, freedom of speech and expression and what we want for our children and our grandchildren.
It's all just an understanding for women.
Exactly, for women. And then, Marie Le Pen pointed out to Trump a year ago, don't trust Macron. This is bull.
Well, Macron's calling nationalism today and populism leprosy.
I know I'm a leper. I'm a spreader of leprosy. And good. And long may it continue because we will stop people like him because he's like a clone.
You know, there's no difference between him and Trudeau and Renzi and Blair in his younger days and Cameron in his younger days as well.
They've all come, they've all been cut out of the same suit. They all wear the same suit.
The way they wear the same ties, they go to the same hairdressers and they've all had the chip put in there that is liberal leftism that we all have to adhere to.
And we're saying, no, enough is enough. We've had enough. We're at a tipping point in this country, Alex.
And it can go totally the other way to socialism and left liberalism, or we can say, no, we're not having this anymore.
And it is, we're going back to the nation state and we are protecting...
Absolutely. We're almost out of time, folks. I promise when I come back, I'm going to write your calls.
You've been real troopers. We had some Skype and got her on one segment late.
That's why I had to change plans. I promise. Next segment, we're going bam, bam, bam. So get ready.
Just in closing, the bureaucracy wants all of this garbage.
And they've now got Article 13, Article 11, that openly says the end of Internet freedom, even wired and gizmodos say, they can't believe this is happening.
So it looks like they're striking back, would just attempt to break the Internet. It's very brazen.
So what's going on? This passed the committee two days ago in the EU Parliament. Where's that going? What's the word?
Okay, so they go on about the digital economy week after week, month after month, year after year.
But the truth is they haven't got the capabilities like America has and like we have.
We're light years ahead in the UK in developing software and the Internet, et cetera, along with you.
And there's this deep-hated jealousy of that as well. And because they can't control the freedom of speech on there,
they want to tax it, they want to shut it down. So that's what's behind it.
But this bill will come before us, the elected parliamentarians in the next few months.
And there's a big campaign to actually get it stopped. I hope it will.
They don't actually like being told, but the trouble is with the EU, they just recycle something.
So we may vote against it and we may get one small victory, but it doesn't stay.
Well, sure, it shows.
It goes straight back to the commission and it will come back in another guy's and eventually it will be passed.
Well, it shows their mindset. You know, I talked to some senior folks in the government yesterday.
I'll just leave it at that. And I just said, you know how bad the attacks are.
You know about Google and Facebook and Twitter and you know about what's happening and you know about 13 and 11.
And they didn't know about 13 and 11.
So the president's being educated about 13 and 11.
And I know we talked, our people talked to Congressman Jordan about it. He's aware.
We're trying to get kind of gates to kind of be the leader of this and get on the floor every day and talk about it.
This is the winning issue. Plus it's the right issue. It's free speech.
The left and the average young people don't want to censor the Internet.
The establishment thinks they can sneak it by because Trump's 72 and all this.
Or, you know, and a lot of folks in Congress don't understand it. We do.
So when I'm lobbying, it's not how I want some weapons contract or something.
I'm lobbying for free Internet and folks, I am doing it, but we need everybody to be doing it and doing it very, very strong.
I'm not at liberty to talk about the discussions we're involved in, but that's what we're doing.
And we also asked the president, again, six months ago to stop the decriminalization of marijuana that sessions is trying to put everybody in prison for.
We want, and he's done that now. They're fighting him there.
So the president's very responsive. I can tell you that.
And if you want to know where it's coming from, folks, the president is just, he's fighting 24 seven, but he needs your input on the trail.
When he's out on the street everywhere, he's listening to you because he's listening to me.
He's listening to Roger Stone. Okay, Janice Atkinson.co.uk Janice, thank you so much. You're awesome.
We'll talk to you soon. Have a great weekend.
You too.
All right. Yeah.
And I'm not bragging, folks, but you know, I'm fighting hard.
And what's crazy is the Intel, you think everybody knew this in Congress.
No, I tell people they look it up and then a week later, I see him on TV doing something.
The left's listening, though, you go to media matters, Soros is out. They're like, Joan says it in three days later.
They're word for word saying we got to shut him down.
That's what's so scary, though. It's like, why don't other people know all this? Why don't they study it?
It's like, Trump does the right thing when he has all the information like Stone says, but everybody has got to make this the big issue.
You got to call C span, you name it. You got to burn up the phone lines of the White House.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion, uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high-quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
You can start supporting your body's needs at a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Some kind of way out of here, it's Alex Jones.
There must be some way out of here, say the joke or do the thing.
There's too much confusion. There's too much confusion.
I can't get no relief. I can't get no relief.
Bob Dylan wrote this, but Bob Dylan really is a great songwriter.
But he admitted, he said, I serve Lucifer.
He said I sold my soul to the devil.
You gotta serve somebody. He tried to be a Christian for a while, but he had to go back to pop a devil. Too bad.
Turn a little bit more. This song spells it all out.
No reason to get excited. The thief he kindly spoke.
There are some of them among us.
We think that life is but a joke. But you and I, we've been through that.
It's not our game.
So let us quit talking softly now, and falsely now.
The war is getting late. You can even hear how Jimi Hendrix changed some of the words.
He said there are many here among us. Hendrix says there are some here among us.
There's a lot of music I've loaded in there that we never play. I'm glad you guys are getting deeper into some of that music.
All right. From now on, I am going to just go to your phone calls at the end of the broadcast.
But if you don't remember that Info Wars is building a news operation against the globalists and is sponsored by you, we will not succeed.
And the summer is always a doldrum point for us. That's why some of the biggest sales of the year are now.
So basically everything that was the best seller that wasn't on sale is now on sale.
A lot of best sellers were on sale, but now are big, big best sellers.
Whereas they don't really fund the operation, but they get people in the store and they're great products like the toothpaste.
Most toothpaste out there has 50 cents of product in it. We got three plus dollars of product in it.
And when we sell it at full price, you know, for 12 bucks or whatever, you know, it helps fund us.
But when we're selling it at 50% off, $7.47 for adults and children.
And 50% off the SilverSaw mouthwash and immune gargle in 16 ounces, 3 ounces, 1 ounces, it's all there. It's insane.
We've never done 50% off of the immune gargle and it's one of our best sellers, but a lot of you sit on the fence at the price point.
You have to understand, other mouthwash we could buy, the bottle costs more than what's in it.
No, we're talking four or five dollars a product in the mouthwash.
So it's all there. Yeah, it's there.
In FullWarsStore.com, In FullWarsLife.com, 25% off on the Alexa Pure Breeze, which again, six, seven, eight years ago,
I bought filters for the house that were the ION and HEPA, the four filters, they were like 850 bucks a piece.
Then Alexa Pure came out a few years ago with theirs at 300 bucks that was as good in the same specs as the best selling models that were still 800.
Now they've dropped it down to 200 and it's got the four states filter.
And then when you do 25% off, nothing is even close. It is game changing and water filtration, all of it.
In FullWarsStore.com, In FullWarsLife.com, or triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Okay, I apologize to Chris, Gregory, DeSean, Kossie, James, Mike, Julian, Jeff, knowledge, gay frogs.
We're going to all of you right now.
So I'm going top to bottom. Let's talk to Chris and Virginia. Thanks for holding. Go ahead.
What's going on, Alex? I was just saying, I disagree with you and Roger Stone about Trump for years.
He may have a best case scenario with thinking about four years, but it's going to take two terms to get what he needs to get done,
with them blood sucking vampires on the border and in Washington because they're going to fight him too for now.
And I think their plan now is to run out the clock on Trump because they know he's getting a lot of stuff done.
And it's probably that's pretty much the only way that they can stop him right now to run out the clock for him.
I actually agree with you and I was having discussions yesterday with people saying, please, but imagine how cool it would be if he turned it all around
and Pence was loyal and things kept going. I just don't know if Pence has the energy or the star power.
I'm not saying he isn't smart to continue it, but I mean, just look at what Trump's doing.
He is reversing more than 20, 30 years of their garbage in just a year and a half.
They're hating him more than ever. Now they're going on TV saying attack Trump supporters.
They're having antiphones CNN saying they're heroes. I mean, I agree.
They're trying to get a civil war going here and it's just getting crazier and crazier.
What do you think they're going to do as Trump and all of us continue to succeed?
I think the media is playing a game with the civil war. I think it's more civil war culturally than it would be physically.
Oh, I agree.
Like the media would portray it to be. I think maybe last year was their best chance for civil war.
This year, I think more people are seeing prosperity and they're looking towards the future now.
I agree with you. So as they get more and more desperate, more and more insane, I think it's going to accelerate their demise.
But I don't want to be too confident. Is there a blind spot? What is it we should? What should we be worried about?
I think they're contemplating right now the chemical and biological warfare aspect of it.
Because if they, the only thing is it would take their own self out. So that would be the problem.
They could run to their bunkers. They could run in hot, but it would take out a whole bunch of people and a lot.
I'm glad you mentioned that. Let's get an update on disease X.
Airborne birds flew killing 40% in China. It was thousands dead last time I checked.
Nothing ever seemed like it, but almost nothing in the news on it. And absolutely.
Well, you see Bill Mars saying, let's have the economy crash. You see him saying, let's depopulate the earth.
This is their attitude, but you're right. Do they really have the guts to pull the switch?
And then the news is, since we've already exposed it, they've got to know even if they kill half of us, they're not going to get away with it.
They're going to take billions of people who lose their mommies, their daddies, their kids, who are going to be on suicide missions against them to get them.
They're never going to pull this off now. That's why I'm saying, Chris, Trump ought to go into a press conference and offer the left and the globalist amnesty,
political amnesty for prosecution if they surrender. But they've got to come to the table and sign.
I mean, that's happened a lot in history to stop bloodshed. I mean, is there anything we can do to get them to just run up the white flag?
I think some of them are helping on taking this as far as it's going to go.
There's something that will legitimately come to the table and try to make a deal for a better world.
But some of them are helping on it and it's driven by evil. That's a lot of things that people don't mention.
That spiritual part of it is deep because a lot of these people are pushed by evil and they're the will to do harm to man and woman and child,
especially the children because the blood of the innocent is powerful.
Chris, I think you've been calling for years and there's been like six or seven callers that I set up and I get your name and number and I'm going to start a podcast with callers.
We finally got it built. We finally got crew hired. I want to set a deadline.
Within three weeks, I want to launch at least a one hour show a week that we do live with like four or five of those callers and we'll expand from there.
And I want Chris to be the host of it. Let's fly Chris here. Let's fly Chris to Austin.
Everything he says just touches me in my soul. Everything he says is on target.
And I'm not just saying that to sound all sweetie pie. What you're saying is absolutely on target and what my gut is picking up as well.
And it's just such a historic time that we're in here. Can you imagine what it would be like if Hillary had gotten in, Chris?
It would be, we'd be well on the path to single payer. It'd be an invasion.
And, you know, our second amendment would be gone. You know, most of us don't even know about the second amendment and what that means.
You know, I'm one of the ones that's late in the game to our rights citizens and, you know, we're at a time now that more than ever, people need to know their rights, their constitutional rights.
And I know that this is a constitutional republic that practices democracy, not a democracy.
That's right. Well, listen, I want to get you and the three or four other people that we over the years have this idea for years.
They're in there written down the board to look. Maybe we should fly all you guys to Austin.
There wasn't any ladies. I think it was one lady too. And like, get them all together for the inaugural launch of a show.
But we'll see Chris. God bless you. I'm going to put you on hold. If I haven't got your name and number, I want to get you on because everything you're saying is on target.
I mean, they're having real discussions about releasing bio weapons of the populace at the academic level.
And all I want to say is I got four kids and you guys go to that type of level, your minions and all you don't have anywhere you're going to run.
Because the truth is when you pitch people off, you can't stop it. Stop them.
And so I want the global to know and it's not some macho thing when I do this because they know I'm a serious person.
So it's dangerous for me to be like this, but I have to do it for my children.
We're not stupid. We know this bird flown all the rest of its been engineered.
I've had scientists on that have looked at it. They've killed hundreds of microbiologists that tried to expose it.
If you globalists go to your final red plan, as you call it, and release bio weapons on us, I swear, I know in my gut you're all going to pay.
And you're not going to get away with it. So you need to understand you're beaten.
But as Chris said, that's the key to everything he said, driven by evil.
Why do they do it when it's not good for their own body, their own life?
They're driven. They're driven. They're driven to do bad things to be able to hurt people, lie to cheat and steal.
They're driven. Well, we have to be driven to stop them.
All right, Gregory, Deshaun, Cassie, James, Mike, everybody, your calls are two minutes away, news wars.com.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com, because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself. And then rest assured, you're finding the info war, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Years ago, Info Wars Life created the powerful Michael ZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Michael ZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
Michael ZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Michael ZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
They talk about Energizer, Duracell inside. What are you driven by? What do you serve? Back to Bob Dylan, you got to serve somebody.
Can we pull up Bob Dylan's, you got to serve somebody? I think it's in the rundown in there. And he just goes through everything.
Might be a billionaire, you got to serve something. Might be a schoolteacher, you got to, what do you serve? What do you serve?
I serve protecting innocence. But I'm not innocent because I have to know what the enemy is. And that's what I do.
But the last caller nailed it. He just said, it doesn't make sense. It isn't supposed to. These people are driven to evil.
Like child molesters or devil worshipers or Nazis or whatever they did. They're driven to it, doing bad.
Those of us that have conscience, that means God's fear is driven to want to please God.
Because you feel the presence of it and it's so good, you're embarrassed.
There's the lyrics. You may be an ambassador to England or France. You may like to gamble. You might like to dance.
You might like to be a heavyweight champion in the world. You might be a socialite with a long string of pearls.
But you're going to have to serve somebody. Yes, indeed, you're going to have to serve somebody.
Well, it may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're going to have to serve somebody.
And then after that, let's play the clip. He did it on two TV shows saying, I'm going to deal with the devil.
The industry is run by the devil. And that's really a warning from Bob Dylan,
that at a point in time he did sell a soul to the devil and tried to get out of it, but that was so guilty about it.
He doesn't think he can get out. Hey, read Faust, which is an art type of he could have gotten out of it at any time, Bob.
He may have rejected the Holy Spirit, but even understanding that is another mystery.
Now there is a morally safer. You think the real devil gets up there and says, I sold my soul to the devil? No.
That's a cry for help right there. Bob, you don't have to do it.
Okay, let's go to the caller here. I appreciate everybody holding Gregory in Texas into shock.
Gregory, thanks for holding you're on the air. Welcome.
Hey, Alex, can I make a plug real quick about bodies? Like it really did help.
Please.
Like a real bad.
Yes, sir.
No, but go ahead. Please do. Yeah.
Oh, okay. Yeah, I really had a bad pain in my ear. I thought it was an ear infection.
It had to be a joint pain called TMJ.
TMJ, I haven't.
Oh, yeah, it works.
Our bodies works better for my TMJ. That's why I got such a grind and clench my teeth at night.
I had to wear a splint. When I forget to wear it, I can break my teeth off.
But that's why I look like a chipmunk now. It's stress. You used to have these.
They're three times the size. They should be exactly.
Well, I'm going to shut up. Go ahead and tell people what happened for you.
Because in my experience, real bodies, really strong turmeric works better than Advil for me.
Well, yeah, like, um, I just noticed one day, like when I was eating, like it just, it was like a, it was like a sharp pain.
It's right here. It's right here.
It's right where the joint goes in.
Yeah. So it is real close to the ear.
So I'm thinking I might have an ear infection.
It can make your whole ear get numb. It hurts so bad.
Yes. So like, so I went to the hospital because like it was hurting real bad.
And, you know, they told me to go to, um, I forgot how to pronounce the doctor.
You know, the ears, nose and throat specialist.
I don't know how to pronounce the whole title of it, but the specialist.
Like when I went to him, he was saying like a lot of people get confused about that because it's a joint pain.
This is important. And I always run everybody.
We're going to go to break. I'm going to come back and finish up with this and then your point about, uh, news and information and the whole hoax with them and meeting a little girl.
It was sent with her mother to the emergency center, the family center was never separated and CNN that was there knew that and was told that by the board of patrol.
Unbelievable, but it's not. And we know they're liars. So all they can do is disrupt.
Why do we believe anything they say?
We'll be back with Gregory. Everybody else boom, boom, boom.
We're back in 60 seconds.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lailania States, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
And then let's cue it up. Bob Dylan said he made a deal with the devil. He got to do that to be in the music industry and people think that sounds crazy.
I've had him say it to me. Mark Dice had it when he was getting ready to sign a big contract for reality TV with a major rock star.
They called him in. They said, listen, this isn't just some litmus test. We want to see if you're a Christian.
We believe in the Lucifer and we worship the devil here. And if you don't sign on to that, you don't get this job.
And Mark Dice is like, you're joking, right? They're like, no, we're not. We're deadly serious.
They just make movies like devil's advocate as a joke. It's real. The devil's real.
And these people are driven by evil. Let's play that clip of him on 60 Minutes. This is probably 15 years ago with Marley Safer. Here it is.
You're still out here doing these songs. You know, you're still on tour.
I do, but I don't take it for granted.
Why do you still do it? Why are you still out here?
Well, it goes back to the destiny thing. I mean, I made it to bargain with it, you know, a long time ago and I'm holding up my hand.
What was your bargain?
To get where I am now.
Should I ask who you made the bargain with?
With, you know, with the chief commander.
On this earth?
On this earth and then in the world we can't see.
Bob Dylan has been nominated.
With the master and the commander.
Okay.
Gregory in Texas. Sorry, got caught up with the break. Start over.
This is very important because I never really talk about products and the FDA doesn't want people to even say what they can do, but no one denies what Saul Palmetto does for prostate.
And our product has really strong level of that.
And no one talks about turmeric. I mean, it's a known superfood.
Well, the average tumor is 3% curcumin and ours is 95.
We set out to find the best concentrated system of it in the world.
And you can say maybe somebody's got something as strong, but it's as strong as it gets at a lower price.
So you talk about bodies. Exactly. I've got a torn Achilles. I'm not going to have it reconstructed because it's totally gone.
It's going to be six weeks off my feet. I got TMJ really bad.
You look at videos of me, you know, 20 years ago, I hadn't had this year. This is like a chipmunk.
My muscles are three times the size they should be because I was stressed by clenching at night after a splint.
And yeah, the first time I was like 20, and I went to my daddy's and I'm like, Dad, I got a huge earache.
My whole ear's numb. He goes, Oh, you got TMJ. You're clenching.
And so then I went to I knows your doctor all that stuff.
They said, yeah, and they for doing the splints, then I lose them or I break them and it comes back.
But yeah, exactly better than Advil for me. I take bodies.
My wife's got some hip pain because she played tennis for a long time.
It's been helping her more than Advil and Advil's great.
I'm not comparing it to a drug or Advil. I'm just saying it's a normal anti inflammatory.
Also, but it upsets my stomach. You know, it's not supposed to upset stuff. It's the opposite.
You gotta take a lot of it. Raw ginger root. Throw that in a blender.
Do that. Boom. It's powerful as well. She's getting a big dose of that.
So tell folks what happened to you. Go ahead.
Yeah, I just noticed it was actually last week.
Last week, like I was trying to be at work and I just couldn't.
I couldn't even like open up my mouth.
So I thought, you know, I thought, okay, where am I going away?
The next two days, it just got worse.
I'm like, you know, I'm going to go to the doctor because I can't even go to sleep.
Now I can't even go to work right now. So like, you know, they went, I went to the emergency room
and they just told me, you know, we really can't do anything.
All we could do is just give you an antibiotic.
But we can send you to a special.
I'm like, okay, so literally that Wednesday, last Wednesday.
I don't remember the date, but that Wednesday I went there and they were telling me like what it was.
And like the thing he told me is like, you need to take out a bill because that bill had anti-inflammatories.
So when I came home, like, wait, I remember body has anti-inflammatories.
So like I started reading it.
And then like, I mean, you said it's the best product.
So I just wanted to try it.
I took two.
I just remember taking two.
It didn't hurt that day.
I mean, it was a little recurring.
But let me tell you, like I said, it was last week.
This whole week I have, I don't even remember the pain.
I really don't.
Like I just go by my business.
Well, that's, I mean, that's what that's what tumor is known for.
It's got a bunch of other compounds that are anti-inflammatories.
And like I said, did the hospital tell you to take an Advil?
It works really good too.
I mean, I'm not going to lie to folks.
Advil with TMJ saved my life.
I've had TMJ 25 years.
They didn't even tell you that.
Did you take any painkillers?
Before, yes.
Before I knew what it was.
Yes, I did.
Did those help?
It did.
It helped me go to sleep, honestly, because I just couldn't go to sleep.
See, other painkillers just mask the pain.
Advil's good because it actually lowers inflammation.
But it does it chemically versus what Mother Nature does with turmeric.
And that's why turmeric is so incredible.
I mean, I know a lot of people that, you know, take turmeric.
And I mean, here's the deal.
You can go out and get curry, but then it's so hot that, you know,
the amount you put on a whole meal is not what you get in a concentrated pill.
So that's why the pills are so good as it's concentrated.
But yeah, I mean, just a big curry meal, you can handle the heat.
I'm getting hungry.
It has that effect.
It's Mother Nature.
God gave it to us.
And I'm glad you like bodies.
What else is on your mind?
Oh, concerning the CNN report, it's not that I knew it was like,
but like, I remember going to college and like, at that time, you know,
they had CNN posted on the TV.
It's just it is what it is.
So like, I couldn't really believe those stories.
So let me just stick to this story.
Like, I guess my question is how did the little girl even get in that position?
Like, you know, I always have those kind of questions,
which always leads me to wanting to read the story.
Now, this is the first time I heard about it because I've been working.
And I usually watch you because like you have just a, just a prolifer of news.
You know, I could get my daily source of news, you know,
because some, some days I just don't feel like watching.
I'd rather just, you know, read my Bible or read a Washington Bible study,
you know, just really, you know, time be a stronger Christian.
You know, I'm 28.
So that's it.
The thing that binds us all together is that we love God.
And then we're after 40 something years, I always knew this,
but now it's even stronger.
It's evil versus good.
It doesn't mean we're all perfect and everything.
No, it just means we love God.
We want to be good.
They hate God.
They want to be bad.
And so we're trying to be good and we're scared of God because we can feel,
you know, how good God is and we're bad compared to God,
but we don't want to be bad.
We're trying to serve God.
They're serving the devil.
Just like Bob Dylan just said, I serve the God of this world.
The head, the head God, the Elsie Bob.
Very, very sad.
God bless you.
I appreciate your call.
Speaking of that, fake news, crying child used by Time magazine and CNN was never
separated from her family.
The family's gone public, but here's the big news.
It's crazier.
Daily Callers reporting this dailycaller.com.
It's up on infowars.com.
Mother of crying child was previously deported in 2013.
And I don't blame her trying to run away and get away from Central America.
I don't blame her, but maybe her husband's a good guy.
Maybe he's a bad guy, but I know this.
He's saying she's bad for running across the desert and trying to get in the U.S.
And it's incredibly dangerous for our daughter.
I gotta tell you, hit my wife or my husband or anybody else.
If I was a woman, took my daughter through Northern Mexico in the most dangerous
sector.
I mean, you talk about child abuse and I get you're fleeing poor countries and stuff,
but good God, I mean, I'm not scared of a lot of stuff, but let me tell you down
over that Texas border down there in many areas is scary because there are people
down there that'll kill you in a second.
And they're just busy robbing and killing their own people all day long.
And it's bad.
And to turn that around that Trump bully and some little girl is crazy.
And then it's all a lie.
It's just good Lord.
I mean, we'll be right back.
And I'm going to go right to Kossie, who's got some key points to make about disease
when somebody's bringing that up.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price.
The Fox Carambit knife finally available in the US.
The Fox Carambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility
for defense and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to the ultimate knife dot com truly the best knife you will ever own and only available
at the ultimate knife dot com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at the ultimate knife dot com.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault.
A miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
You'll get a $39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter.
Get your bug assault today.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Serve right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to,
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Including meals such as Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
InfoWars' life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars' life-selects storable foods.
I hear people talking bad about the way we have to live here in this country.
Arping on the wars we fight, griping about the way things ought to be.
And I don't mind them switching sides and standing up for things they believe in.
But when they're running down our country, they're walking on the fighting side of me.
Broadcasting worldwide from the ATX.
Thank you for joining us, ladies and gentlemen.
Globalism is collapsing.
Soros' empire is imploding.
Humanity is struggling back towards the light.
We're going right back to your calls.
We're going to go to Kosi in Minnesota who brings up a great point I see.
The hoax of the kids in the border and the little girl that's now admittedly fake.
She wasn't separated from her mother on and on and on.
It's a cover-up, he says, for the IG report and Disease X.
And I don't want to believe how bad Disease X is.
I've got children.
I don't want to know that story.
And all week I haven't really covered it since Sunday.
And then I go check the numbers, like 100 dead, 600 dead, 5,000 dead, and then no more reporting on it.
Folks, 40% death rate airborne bird flu?
That's the U.N.
And then there's no news coverage of it.
If that Twitter had their bot saying, I made it up, then people were like, well, no, actually.
It's at the World Health Organization and it's in the Chinese news.
And all I'm saying is, it's biologically produced.
It's been artificially made.
I've had scientists home before.
The fact that it would mutate this fast, normally things mutate, then they go sideways and get less lethal.
The fact that it goes 1% that kills 6%, 10%.
At 11% the last time they had it, that is unprecedented, a flu that kills 11% of people.
Now, that means your street gets the flu?
20, 30 people on your street get the flu?
You're talking four or five dead people at that number.
You're talking about 10, 15 dead people at the new number.
And just like I'm always telling you about stuff before it happens, I'm guilty that at a selfish level,
that I don't follow my flesh, because, you know, the flesh has its own guilt.
God has, you know, your consciousness also, the flesh has its own kind of guilt.
You're worried about your own butt.
That I have not gotten the money, the time, the energy to get some redoubt in the middle of nowhere.
If stuff like this gets out, because the globalists say they're gearing up to release it,
then they get everybody hyped up for it.
Then I start seeing stuff come online that could be it.
And there's almost no news coverage.
Normally when SARS was killing like 1% of people, it was like the end of the world, this kills 40%.
And there's almost no coverage.
And my gut level, I mean, I get chills.
When I think about this, and it's not chills of fear, it's chills of reconcile with your ex-wife.
Because if everything goes to hell in a handbasket, I need to work with her.
But then the whole worldly thing and all that's going on with that and just all of it, it's just a mess, man.
I don't want to fight with the average liberal idiot.
I don't want to fight with some racist black guy or racist white guy, all these fools.
The globalists are anti-human exterminists.
And they're saying they're going to release a bio-weapon to depopulate us.
And they might just do that to stop nationalism.
And I just, at a gut level, I see it all lining up.
Let's see what the caller in Minnesota says.
What do you think?
I totally agree with you.
We're seeing block-to-block, back-to-back coverage on CNN, MSNBC, all the news agencies, even Fox,
about something that was a non-issue a week ago.
And you're here kind of talking about disease X, you know, the last number was 5,000 people.
You know, Strock literally got escorted out of the FBI.
And now we're just, we're hearing about all of this.
And I worry that we're getting distracted.
We're letting them distract us because the news, it's really just a dialogue, right?
And when we respond to people, we legitimate what they're saying.
That's why they never respond to us.
I mean, Alex, you are the news.
I don't listen.
I can't stand other media sources.
You know, I'm a young person.
I, like, in my 30, I listen to you, right?
You got you, and all their alternative media are the news.
I just, you know, I almost feel like we need to start not paying attention to these kind of petty distractions
that they're trying to force down our throat.
Donald Trump even recently signed an executive order that you even said yesterday
probably won't even be able to go into effect, right?
He's spending his time working on this instead of what's going on in China with disease X.
And so I'm a little concerned about that, but I think that's what's really going on with this whole media cover-up.
We all know that it wasn't an issue, you know, during Obama's rule and whatever.
The other thing I wanted to talk about was the shield as well.
I don't know if you know this, but it's really good in terms of, like, hearing the flu and colds and just viruses in general.
It's a detox, but, like, I've done a kind of my own sort of test on it with, like, an end of three.
And literally within two days, people's flues are gone, serious flues.
I had them, like, staying home from work, serious cold, things of that nature.
So I think that's really cool.
And then I loved your earlier caller, Chris, as well.
I thought he was making really good points.
And this spiritual point as well, I'm seeing a lot of people on alternative media start to kind of talk about new age things and, like, you know, like the spirit rising.
I understand their point of view, and I respect them as people, but I need them to kind of understand that that's coming from an ungodly place.
And I think it's sort of a spiritual way to get us off track.
You really need to go towards authentic, you know, Christianity, Catholicism, for example.
I know it's overrun by communists right now, but it was the first church, and I truly, like, it's the first church that Jesus Christ established.
That's it.
They hate Catholicism.
They hate authentic Catholicism.
Well, that's why they want to come in and take over the Catholic Church.
There's no doubt that now the Pope's had pressure put on him so he came out against abortion, which is good.
Cozy, let me just say this.
I want to get people that are part of a podcast we do of listeners and callers.
And so maybe we should talk to you and see if you want to fly into town or, you know, over the phone or Skype, because I want to start launching new podcasts.
We're getting the crew hired.
We've got more crew hired.
So we're about to launch a bunch of new shows, but I want to have listener based shows where folks come on every week or, you know, every couple of weeks or every day, whatever they want to do to have a discussion about that.
But what you raise about the fact that they are totally pushing this whole hoax, you're right.
It is a distraction from the Russiagate thing falling apart and things like disease X.
And I'm not saying disease X is going to spread across the planet and kill a billion people.
Pop scientists saying an airborne flu is coming that kills a large percentage of people and it'll depopulate the earth.
They were saying that in January and we were warning about it.
And now magically it's mutated to 40%.
There's never been a flu that kills even, you know, anything near that.
And so now there's nothing in the news about it, that's what concerns me, that if there ever is something like this that's really spreading, they're not going to tell us.
And the fact that that was Sunday, June 16th, we covered that, or Saturday.
And then now no coverage of it.
It's pretty, and there's the telegraph.
Most countries not ready to deal with new disease outbreaks.
So that's the big thing, the flesh eating bacteria, all of it.
Hell, types of pneumonia is killing millions here in the U.S.
This is real, but the media doesn't hype it.
They tell you about oh, some little poor girl down at the border and she was taken from her mommy and of course that wasn't true.
You must why does CNN lie so much?
They can't help it, it's their nature.
So, Cozy, thank you so much.
Look forward to speaking to you.
Maybe you can be part of that new show.
We'll be back with more calls straight ahead.
And I always say this at the end of a segment because it's so important.
If you don't spread, PrismPlanet.com and NewsWars.com and Infowars.com, nobody will.
It has to be hand-shared, they're blocking it.
B-I-F-F-Y-B-A-G.com
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages,
having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With Infowars life-selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, home-style potato soup,
and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Infowars life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need
for an affordable price with Infowars life-selects storable foods.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at Infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Infowars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to Infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's Infowarslife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Rev. Rev. Rev.
Crucified for no sins.
Cemetery gates.
All right, what do we begin?
You've heard callers call in and go,
Man, I took your bodies and I had joint pain that never went away and it went away completely, or it went away 90%.
We're not saying it's some panacea, but I've had, when I was getting into supplements,
because I was promoting them 10 years ago to fund the operation, went out and got the best rated companies,
because I want you to get good products, but I was like,
why don't we just produce them and sell them ourselves, that way we get more of the profit to expand?
Because we couldn't expand the money we were making, you know, just having sponsors.
And then they try to target the sponsors and stuff like that too, as you know.
And the biggest thing ever was turmeric, turmeric, turmeric, turmeric, and I just never got around to putting turmeric out.
And then it took, it takes a couple of years to go to the big companies and try to find out what's the best.
And then they've had, only for five or six years, patented system where they can take turmeric, curry,
and they can, but not yellow, it's bright orange when it's really powerful, and then concentrate.
And that's what we've got is, we're there to study highlights, progress and turmeric supplement quality.
And then it says people are concerned about synthetic curcumin and adulteration, yeah, it's gotten so popular.
We have totally organic concentrated turmeric.
It's bodies, ease of the body.
And I mean, what it does, and I really should take it every day.
We got so many good supplements, I've never really been a supplement taker,
since I started getting on them 10 years ago, it's made my life better.
But if you take anything routinely, it's X2 and things like turmeric.
Because, I mean, I can have really bad allergies, and I can take a bunch of turmeric,
and it literally deals with inflammation, sinus, and it's amazing.
But the FDA says, hey, you don't say that, you're not allowed to say that.
Well, the FDA actually says, do not say you need water to live.
They've been in cases where people have argued in court with them,
well, how dare you say you don't need vitamin C or you don't need to live.
Would you say we don't need oxygen?
They've never gone that far.
But there's certain things in this universe.
And so, yeah, I'm selling this to fund my operation to defeat the globalist.
It's a win-win.
And I'm here promoting products that I know work.
And yeah, there's curcumin and improves memory and mood, new study finds.
Well, because there's a lot of brain inflammation with the stuff of the environment,
and this reduces that.
What is Alzheimer's?
They admit it's mainly brain inflammation.
It's chronic.
I've had brain surgeons on, like,
and ours is the best out there.
Doesn't mean somebody else hasn't been using the patented process,
but we are as strong as, like, seven different companies we approach
that the top of the line can produce.
I'm going to go to your calls and stop talking about it.
We've got our great super blue fluoride-free,
four-to-five with the global silver and iodine.
Toothpaste we're selling.
And it's all about toothpaste.
Make your life better.
Funds our operation.
Win, win, win, win, win.
That's what I famously went a few months ago.
You know, Alex Jones does a whole video about chemicals in the water
causing marine life to have problems,
and then he has a water filter out after it.
Interesting.
Like, he discovered that I was like a secret coated scam.
No, no.
There's a lot of bad stuff in the water.
The number one thing you can do is filter your water overall,
and we sell really good systems.
I said the water's got problems, you need to filter it.
And then I'm going to sell you a filter.
Yeah, it's called being direct.
Dude.
In fact, we play that audio.
One of his famous things is saying that,
one of his most famous statements was saying that
tap water is turning the frogs gay and it will turn you gay too.
First off, gay people are awesome.
I don't think that's a problem at all.
And secondly, if you notice at the end of that video,
he advertises water filters.
Interesting.
Notice you don't hear about David Hogg anymore,
because the solo psychopaths that run these anti-gun campaigns
thought, because he was like a little monster like they are,
in my view, that this little megalomaniac was selling.
No, he hurt you bad.
He probably gave Trump five points of the polls.
By the way, son, it isn't about men that are naturally attracted
to other men or women that are attracted to women.
That's always happened.
I don't judge people.
I don't hate him.
God judges people.
But most of the frogs now are either quasi-sterile, sterile,
and atrazine makes male frogs go try to fertilize the eggs
of other males.
There are no eggs.
There are no more frogs.
So you're like, gay people, they're awesome.
What's wrong with it doing it to?
It's no more people, brother.
And atrazine does have the same effects in mammals
as it has in frogs.
And it changes areas of the brain associated with the olfactory nerve.
That's the nose, my friend.
That's part of your brain that hooks your nose.
Everything else that make men feel attracted to other men.
The Pentagon developed a atrazine type spray that they would spray.
They tested it actually in Iraq.
That's classified, but it got leaked.
You can pull it up.
Gay bomb.
They always take it like a clip.
You go in.
Gay bomb, baby.
Then I show BBC.
But they cut the BBC.
And it's basically a chemical cocktail.
Not just of atrazine.
They add some other chemicals.
It's classified.
But the word is, it's like, what's ecstasy's compound?
I forget.
MDMA.
They mix that with atrazine and stuff.
And then they spray that on you.
And you'll start having sex with a fire hydrant.
I mean, the point is, is that sex is all based, not even on visual men.
It smells with women particularly.
But they can flip that on.
And that's why perfume, you know, everybody knows about that.
Well, they've got weaponized perfumes, basically, that will make men attracted to other men.
And they want you to do that so you don't have kids.
And they're the gay frogs.
And it's PBS Associated Press.
What's the name of that show?
Democracy now.
But they think you're dumb.
They think, we're actually showing gay frog porn right now.
But I think that's legal.
It's like PBS.
This is from PBS.
And that is two male frogs.
And hey, if he wants to have sex with a male frog, it's like, you know, it's a cool little pink tattoo on him.
The point is, there'll be no more frogs.
They'll be extinct.
Yeah, there it is.
Told you.
Sense of smell is linked to sexual orientation study reveals.
So they flip a pheromone receptor that's connected to endorphins and connected to areas of the brain associated with sexual desire where you want to have sex with men.
There were studies on that.
They actually did in the 70s in Europe where they found bodybuilders that were heterosexual when they actually went on a bunch of steroids and things.
You'd think they would become more male, but it caused like a feedback loop and most of the male bodybuilders became gay.
And that also gets into all the study because the hormones break down then into female hormones and over jack things.
And then women don't smell good to a male anymore.
They wouldn't have sex with males.
Now, again, this is artificially being done.
And I've just read the science.
It's not like I'm a rocket scientist here.
We're going to go to break.
We're going to go to James.
We're going to go to Mike.
We're going to go to Julian.
We're going to go to Jeff.
We're going to go to knowledge.
We're going to go to Gay Frog next.
Since I brought up Gay Frogs when we returned.
And I thank you all.
But these last four or five folks that have been holding for an hour and a half, you all get a t-shirt, supplement, whatever you want, $30 value.
It's my new role you hold over an hour.
You get that.
And that's a hassle for the crew, but we'll do it.
We'll have customer service call you and give you whatever you like, mail to your door from infowarslife.com or infowarsstore.com.
That's my rule.
So I don't feel guilty making you hold.
But I can't get to everybody.
These callers are all great anyways.
And I had to just get into that.
So if you're a realist or you hear me talking about this, go look it up.
They know what they're doing.
They know what they're doing.
So that's a fact.
And facts are facts.
They're stubborn things.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself.
You owe it to your family.
And you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfoWarsLife.com.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try FloraLife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You are the InfoWars and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever
that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
I've never talked to a gay frog before. We're about to talk to one.
Who knew that the atrazine has a brain increasing power where frogs cannot talk,
not just become sterile and die when they've taken it.
So gay frog, how are you doing from Kentucky?
Hello, Alex. I totally disagree with you, by the way, but I can't stand how the media is lambasting you.
I mean, saying that you groom your employees for gay sex.
First of all, that's totally untrue because I've been trying to have gay sex with you for years and nothing's worked.
I even put atrazine in your coffee and it made you more straight.
Is Rob due there? Maybe we could do the due. I'm just kidding.
So I have to vote for Hillary because I'm a gay Democrat.
Gay frogs got to stick together.
She said you had a very dark heart, but I'm hoping you have a lily white bottom.
And beware that Gavin Newsom, he's a bad news, I'm sure.
Have you heard from Mark Dice lately? I mean, maybe we could go to Vegas and blow the dice.
Sorry, sorry.
Are you a comedian, gay frog?
Well, I'm a frog, as you know. I identify as a frog, but comedy is subjective.
So not everyone can handle my fraudness.
What if I started identifying as a gay frog? Would that be good?
Yeah, maybe we could do a little code hopscotch, you know what I mean?
Sounds like a plan.
Yeah. All right. Seriously, what's on your mind? The primary hot topic of immigration?
Yes, and I think it's a political football. I've seen a lot of coverage of Gavin Newsom recently.
And the rumors have it that he's a gay stateless. I don't know if that's true or not.
That's speculation, but he seems to be their poster child and Trump has to run in the second term
because it's just like a bully who takes their foot off your neck.
You can reprieve yourself. They're about to kill you if you let them go any further.
I think we can't laugh without Trump.
I'm just telling you, he'd like to turn himself around and hand the baton.
And I would blame he's 72. I mean, he'll be running for reelection when he's 74.
And I'm just telling you, that is his wish. I've confirmed that he'd like to turn stuff around,
have a bunch of peace deals, show he could do it in four years, and leave.
But I agree that he needs to stick around. But you know what?
It'd be game changing if he could turn a lot of stuff around with our help.
God bless you, gay frog.
By the way, I think frogs should be gay if they choose to be gay.
I just don't think you should be given anthraxine to make you gay.
And that's a fact. But again, I'm a humble water filter merchant.
Let's go to James on Louisiana. You're on the air, James. Welcome to the airwaves.
What's going on, Alex?
Yeah, no. I was going to say, I kind of felt like the executives ordered to keep the families together.
They basically pulled the political wind out of the liberal cells,
keeps them from being able to use that now, and it puts the ball back in their court.
Well, there's no doubt they were trying to create a civil war and just total hysteria.
And if you notice now that he even did that, which I don't know how you grab people when they don't even know who the parents are,
and put them in general population, I think it's probably bad.
Now it turns out the mother of the crying child was previously deported in 2013 for new losers who just joined us.
CNN knew that the little girl was taken to a migrant family center and was never removed.
They just, they lied. They were told on the site.
So what should happen to CNN in time for lying?
Well, they'll just move on to new lies. I mean, that's what I'm saying is,
we had a caller earlier that pointed out that at some point we got to ignore them because they engage us in debate,
always covering their last lie, and that makes us always get on their play sheet.
But it lets them set the agenda, but at the same time, a lot of people would buy the lies if we didn't counter the lies.
So I don't know how you walk that line dealing with it, but as time goes on,
it seems like they're losing more and more credibility as they just get caught telling whoppers on purpose.
What do you think, James?
Exactly. I mean, that's like the surface level checks that's able to be seen that we can see through the public eye.
But also though, yesterday, I don't know, I kind of felt like I had a somewhat of a download, like of some sorts.
You said you felt you had an epiphany?
Pretty much, yeah. I tried to call in yesterday while it was fresh on my mind.
But whenever you talk about the 100th monkey to deal and hear all about this DMT, I heard you rant in yesterday.
Well, I hear, you know, throughout the research, the destroyed Atlantis, you know, the story of Atlantis,
the completely disappeared civilizations throughout the history that we can find.
And then I see how stuff can be injected into TV shows, stuff like that, cartoons, pretty much everything.
Well, I remember seeing a few cartoons or South Park episodes where, you know, the aliens came and done a test.
And we failed the test so when they left, pretty much put the earth and the moon in a galactic box.
We couldn't get out, you know, because we failed the galactic quest, whatever.
And then I've seen some other shows that pretty much they're the same thing.
Exactly. And the globalists are trying to make sure we fail the galactic test.
That is basically the summation that everyone's come up with.
And just, you know, one of the stories about Atlantis, how they tested the rulers, the subsequent rulers, so to say there was some type of being here.
Well, if you read what Plato wrote, everything else he wrote has been proven historically.
So it's really weird when you're reading stuff, 2,300 years old, and he's lying.
And they had flying machines and a big energy beam.
And yeah, there were some visitors and you're like, just like some, exactly, it's wild.
But also there was a word that the certain beings couldn't say.
And if they said it, they would shape ships or whatever, something would happen.
And the word was a Connecticut or something like that.
Well, here's the bottom line. This planet's ultra-old. There's a lot of stuff going on.
And evil's real. And good's real.
And there are people that want to play God who say they've got to get rid of world population before they become God.
Now, that's pretty obvious. Whatever's telling them this is bad news.
And the Bible's coming true.
And so that means the churches are telling the truth.
But it means that transmission of John the Revelator on the Isle of Patmos is important.
God bless you, James. Great points.
But I totally agree with him.
Just because they've had this policy of splitting parents up from kids since 1630 when we were colonies at Ellis Island right through.
And they're going to make a big thing out of this.
Technically, it's making proof that their parent, okay, we'll keep you together.
But they already do that at most of these centers.
That's why the New York Times is showing a bunch of men going, look at these little boys and they're not with their mommies.
They're like full grown men.
So it's the attempt for hype to override reality.
I mean, some of these guys are calling babies have mustaches.
But that's what I'm saying is, if you have a neighbor that says they're going to water your plants and take care of your cat or dog,
you come back, your cats run away, your plants are dead, and there's, you know, sash trays and cigarette butts and you tell they had a part in your house.
You don't ever associate with that neighbor again.
But we've had the globalist lying to us thousands of times and being caught and we still listen to CNN, but we won't really do it.
So I'm just wondering when this ends.
I mean, it's because I'm watching Trump like a hawk man.
He does something he said he wasn't going to do.
I blow up at him.
Then I kind of pull back and go, well, he's been 95% honest and you know, he's the president, you know, no stuff.
I don't know.
I kind of get ashamed.
But that's because I totally want to see him as perfect.
So I get extra mad.
But at least I'm being honest.
The left thinks you're idiots.
They get off on screwing you over.
They're not the left.
They're con men.
Donnie Deutsch says everybody that supports Trump is Hitler and getting our faces.
Listen, dude, I know you're this tough.
I challenged Donnie Deutsch to a $50,000 boxing match three rounds for the charity of his choice.
And of course, he won't take it.
None of them ever take it.
I'm not that tough, but I get in the ring with him.
I'm old.
Can't catch my breath.
I'll get in there and I'll beat the living snot out of that guy.
I'll pull a Mike Tyson on him.
Elbow.
But the point is, I mean, I'm sick of these thug punks, man.
Acting like they're so damn tough.
I mean, I'd love to bust him up.
If he wants to get in the bare knuckle, I'll do it too.
People always get freaked out when you punch them and they split open every time.
They can't believe it.
Like, you ever been hit like that?
Try this.
I'll have you wearing your nose on the top of your head.
You punk.
You call the American people Nazis.
You scumbag piece of crap.
But I said, do it legally in a ring.
Bare knuckles if you want.
I'd love to bust you up, buddy.
I'll bust you up good.
I'll bust you up.
I'll bust you up.
I'll bust you up.
I'll bust you up.
There's a need for a new world order.
But it has different characteristics in different parts of the world.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
I'm going to make a key point to start the next segment.
Remind me to do it.
I forget.
But I just don't get why people keep betting on socialism and communism and collectivism.
They buy into hype.
I mean, I watch people that toadie around attacking me.
And they just buy whatever the latest bull is.
And they just put it out like trying to be pertinent, trying to matter.
And it's so stupid.
Don't you see what we're doing, changing the world, fixing things?
And then you think we're the enemy?
It's crazy.
You know, I've talked to people like Donnie Deutsch like he's a thug because he is a thug.
He's always threatening the president and threatening his family and shooting his mouth off.
And it's like a thug like that, man.
He needs to deliver on what he's saying there.
We need to start intimidating and bullying Americans and calling them Nazis to their face.
You're a freaking thug, man.
You're a lion piece of crap.
I don't appreciate your fat mouth.
You're a coward.
There's no way you're going to call me Deutsch.
It doesn't matter.
You raise a million dollars in the ring with me.
I'll climb in that ring with you.
I mean, I want to get that ring with you.
You run your big fat mouth.
I want to bust those lips up so bad.
I want to bust your nose up so hard.
I don't care what you do to my face.
I'm going to do nothing to me.
It's because you're a thug.
You're a bully.
Somebody needs to deal with you.
All you left is your kidnap, Baron Trump, raping, fake kids on TV, all your crap.
You're a bunch of desperate thugs, so they roll you out every time to try to thug out on TV like you're tough.
You're an un-American piece of crap.
And you know what?
I don't have to worry about you.
I think Americans are going to deal with you.
You're going to run into some real Americans, Deutsch.
And they're going to get to run your fat mouth in a parking lot and see what you can do.
So sick of these guys that tough all day.
They haven't done jack crap, but sit there and lick the rear end of the globalist and grovel to a failing system.
But thank God you don't even know what you're doing.
You're going down on the ship and I love it.
But I take offense to him saying all Americans voted for Trump are Nazi death camp guards.
And you leftist are funded by a real guy that delivered people to death camps.
George Soros.
That pisses me off, Deutsch.
Knowledge in Pennsylvania are on the air.
Go ahead.
His knowledge is gone.
No, I'm here.
Go ahead.
Hey, what's going on, Alex?
I initially called about the ingenious optics that Time Warner put on their cover.
But that's just for their minions because no one really truly reads Time magazine.
I think it's something to discard us from what's really going on.
You spoke about the disease X, they have that in the mix.
So if Donald Trump only go four years, they're threatening him with that disease.
And I really truly feel, in just my opinion, that if he does not run another term, they will implement that around America.
Right now, they're doing it in China.
They're testing.
But we are the ace in the yard.
If Donald Trump do not run a second election, we may be screwed because the state is so ensured.
No, I totally agree.
But you get why he wants to come in, turn it all around and get out with class.
He knows how second terms will stay there at knowledge.
He's taken over.
Joel Gilbert's got a full raft for you lined up.
And then the war room with Owen Shroyer and others.
Boom, boom, boom.
I'm going to finish up with knowledge and Julian and Mike real quick.
And then we aren't out of here until, I'm going to do live show Saturday and Sunday.
There's so much going on.
I'm going to be here all weekend long.
But yeah, I'm going to do an update on disease X today, I think.
Because man, I tell you, my gut levels got me concerned.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Will you turn lead in the gold?
Did it really exist?
Who knows?
But now they have technology where they can do it.
But the real alchemy is a woman from Central America deported to 2013 bringing her little four-year-old daughter up with her to the coyotes,
to the smugglers, into the U.S., crying in the dark because he's scared, who wouldn't be,
being sent to a refugee family center, never separated from her mother,
and then she's the poster child that she was separated as a lie.
That's alchemy.
You take the abuse of a child through that desert, that hell.
God, if a parent gives their kid beer, they take them away.
Or if a parent, you know, doesn't give them enough meals every day, they take them away.
But you do that, and you're a-okay.
That is alchemy.
That's taking a crime by that mother.
And then lying and saying Trump separated her when it wasn't even true.
That's incredible.
Joel Gilbert, filmmaker, author, researcher, he's taken over in a few minutes.
Finishing up, though, real fast.
We're talking the knowledge of Pennsylvania.
You were laying out some knowledge.
What else were you going to add, my friend?
Well, are you there, Alex?
Yes, sir.
Yes.
I really truly believe, and it's just my only opinion,
that if Donald Trump do not run for the next election,
they're going to pull it out on any way.
They're going to put that disease out on us anyway.
So Donald Trump must.
I know he has a family.
I know this is very dangerous stuff.
But he needs to be there.
Because we have no one else we can rely on.
The swamp is deep, Alex.
It's very deep.
No, I agree.
But can you believe Trump's real?
We were so used to liars.
I mean, my gut told me he was good.
But now everything's starting to turn around.
And then they're lying about everything.
And then it just, it gets so crazy.
I can't even believe it at this point.
So should we stand with him?
Should we stand with Donald?
Should Donald stand with us?
He must, because if he doesn't, who else is going to take it?
I agree. I'll tell you how cool the president is without getting any of the details.
He's literally worried about me getting attacked.
And sees what they're doing to me.
I mean, Trump, Trump.
I mean, he's so good.
It's unbelievable.
I mean, it's something else.
He's like super human, man.
Hundreds of phone calls a day, constant work, up 18 hours a day.
It's actually pretty crazy.
And I'm going to get Joel Gilmer's take on that real faster in a second.
But real quick, let's go to Mike in Canada, then Julian, and that's it.
Thank you, knowledge.
Go ahead, Mike.
Hey, Alex, just want to let you know that the fake news is neck and neck up here in Canada with what's going on in the U.S.
I had to visit my parents on this last weekend and watched global news on Sunday completely do a hit piece on their global BC broadcast.
And it starts off with the immigration boat being rejected.
Then it goes to the sob story about the manufactured migrant crisis on the southern border.
And the news lady starts off by Trump has called them snakes and criminals.
Yet migrants escaping poverty and violence are being separated from the children at the border.
This stupid sob story is nothing but fake news, manufactured crisis to cover up the biggest corruption scandal in history,
with both the Clinton email scandal and the Trump Russian collusion scandal.
There is zero coverage of that anywhere in Canada.
The only one reporting on it is Fox News in the U.S.
That's it.
Wow, true words never said.
And despite that, we're beating the globalist right now, but you're absolutely on target.
The propaganda where Obama said, bring everybody up, bring everybody.
And so it happened. And then they show four-year-old video before they built the emergency centers and say it's Trump.
I mean, every level's a hoax.
And then they get caught, but then they move on to a new lie before we ever expose the last lie.
God bless you, Mike. Great points. Anything else?
Well, it's just sad that they don't have any news coverage showing the obstructionist Schumer saying, we're not going to table a bill in Congress.
Well, obviously, what's Trump going to do to appease everybody in the country? Because this is the flashpoint when really the corruption from the last election and the corruption going back, even past 9-1-1, going back to JFK is just...
It's just the corruption, as far as I'm concerned, with the Clinton scandal.
The tip of the iceberg.
Well, here's the good news.
Trump isn't appeasing them with this executive order. He's playing judo.
And they don't know what to do. It's incredible. But these people are fully committed to evil.
They have no idea how they're in their own little corrupt bubble, like a cess tank. And it's incredible.
All right, thank you, Mike. Have a great weekend. Real quick, Julian. Last caller then.
We have the great Joe Gilbert taking over. Julian from Upstate New York, go ahead.
Hi, Alex. Trump will be elected to a second term because we need him. We want him. It will be him, regardless of who likes it or not.
He's going to stay president.
Listen, when Roger Stone said three weeks ago that Trump just wants to turn it around in the hand of the time, I was like, oh, I'm talking to some high-level folks.
That's actually the game plan. And so, but that's if Trump can get everything turned around before that.
And I agree with you. We don't... Not that Pence is a bad guy. I'll ask Joe Gilbert that question in a minute, but what do you think?
George Washington tried that already. When he was elected for the first term, he barely wanted to be in there.
And they needed George Washington. We need Trump even more than we needed George.
And even if we have to write his name in, whether he likes it or not, kicking or screaming, he's going to stay president because we need him.
I hear you. I hear you. Julian, thank you. I'm going to turn this over to Joe Gilbert. He's got a big raft of guests and stuff to cover.
But, Joe, you heard my questions there, I mean, about where we are, what they're going to pull next scam, what's happening with Trump.
This is surreal, the point we've gotten to. And you heard the questions I asked earlier. Go ahead and take over.
I really appreciate Joe Gilbert, filmmaker, coming on and hosting here, JoeGilbert.net. So the show's yours. Thank you.
Thanks, Alex. Look, I'm going to have Jack Cashill on shortly. He wrote a great article, How Deep is the Deep State?
He's going to talk about how McCarthy went up against the Deep State 50 years ago and how similar it is today.
And I'm going to talk about also our latest embarrassment out here in Hollywood.
Peter Fonda, known around Hollywood, is having a very low IQ, a low IQ of about four, lashed out on Twitter threatening, of course, the president's son, the children of federal agents.
So I'm going to talk about how liberal violence is going to the mainstream through Hollywood.
Don't forget when Trump was elected, Madonna said, I thought about blowing up the White House.
Now, we didn't take it that seriously at the time, but the rhetoric for violence that led to, of course, James Hodgkinson tried to assassinate the entire Republican leadership in Congress.
Now you have mainstream actors like Peter Fonda calling for violence against the children of Republicans and the president's son and no consequences.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about that, how liberalism, socialism, communism was born in violence.
A 1917 revolution in Russia, the Bolsheviks violently overtook a democratically elected government in Russia.
And ever since then, violence is the...
And Joel, I totally agree with you.
And the left says they're following a Maoist plan this time through the colleges to project their power.
And you've got other Democrats calling for violence against Republicans' kids.
You've got, you've got Douchebag, whatever his name is, Donnie Douche on MSNBC saying we're all Nazis.
I mean, you're right.
They want a violent insurrection.
You know, you're going to cover when you come up the fact that they're gearing up for it. So we need to be ready for that.
You got to be very aware of it.
Kirsten Nielsen, of course, the Homeland Secretary, she's being accosted in restaurants at her house.
So they're trying to get this idea of violence mainstream liberal socialist thuggery.
They follow this mantra from Mao, as you said, his famous saying was a single spark can start a prairie fire.
And that's what the Weather Underground did, and that's what Obama talked about when he was running for office.
He used to say a single voice can change a room, a room can change a city, a city can change a nation.
It's all about taking that one fraudulent idea like the immigrant child separated and making a huge...
Change reactions based on hoaxes.
Based on the Maoist idea, a single spark can start a prairie fire.
So they're trying to start these sparks that everybody runs with.
And unfortunately, they got Ivanka and Melania kind of bought into it.
And we have some of the changes in policy, but they'll never give up.
We'll be right back.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Get them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon, no refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest, center-cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault.
A miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter.
Get your bug assault today.
And peaceful holiday season.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress,
age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
And from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself.
And then rest assured, you're finding the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities.
Visit the USA, get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Joel Gilbert, coming to you from Los Angeles right from the left coast.
You know me from some of my films, Dreams of My Real Father.
There's no place like Utopia.
And the new film on InfoWars Store, you've got to get it there.
It's Trump, the Art of the Insult.
It'll be coming up shortly with writer Jack Cashhill, the great writer of Truth and Insight.
He'll be with us.
We're going to talk about his new article, How Deep is the Deep State?
And you won't want to miss this.
We will be taking calls at 877-789-2539.
That's 877-789-Alex.
First, my couple quick takes we touched on earlier.
The liberal violence is ramping up.
They're trying to bring violence mainstream against the children of Republican politicians now.
Peter Fonda, our very own Hollywood actor who has a very low IQ.
He's known to have an IQ of about four.
I'm not joking, around Hollywood.
He lashed out on Twitter at federal agents and the president's son.
And this is just typical demonstration of the fact that inside every liberal, as David Horowitz says,
inside of every liberal there's a totalitarian screaming to get out.
This happened, you could even see it on Election Day, two million anti-democracy protesters took to the streets
protesting democracy, including James Comey's wife and four daughters.
They protested the free election.
You didn't see conservatives protesting in 2012, even though Obama had stolen the election
by using the IRS to interfere with the election.
The conservatives accepted the fact that Obama was president again.
But these liberals, they have a policy to take power and keep power.
That's it. That's their perfect world.
And if you see in places like Detroit and Chicago and my film, there's no place like Utopia,
they've been in charge for 50 or 60 years.
And it doesn't matter that the whole place is falling apart.
If they have the power, they're happy.
Republicans at least have an agenda they're trying to push through.
Democrats only care about keeping power no matter what happens.
I want to talk a little bit about the IG report and then we'll bring Jack Cashill on.
I was not impressed, of course, with the IG report.
It was essentially the same approach that James Comey took to the Hillary investigation.
Remember, James Comey and Horowitz, they both said there's been a lot of crimes.
There's been hundreds of violations of the law and policy.
But it's okay. It's okay. Let's just kind of move on.
It's going to be okay. We'll handle it.
So the only lesson the FBI really got from the IG report is next time we commit treason,
don't text about it.
Let's have verbal treason next time.
That's the entire lesson that FBI is going to take from this.
And the biggest thing missing from the IG report, they did not emphasize, of course,
struck even said in his text, he said the White House is directing it.
They want to be updated.
So that's what's missing. The IRS didn't wake up in 2012,
say we're going to interfere with the election.
FBI didn't wake up and say let's commit treason and take over the election.
They were obviously directed by the White House.
And this entire investigation, really, only by having the investigation for 18 months,
they've won.
18 months of Mueller investigation, they've won.
Because if they're investigating nonsense on the Republicans or investigating themselves,
there can be no investigation of Uranium One,
no investigation of Obama's background that, in fact, he was no son of a Kenyan goat herder.
He was a radical socialist that lied about his entire agenda.
Obama's illegal campaign fundraising from a broad, fast and furious IRS scandal.
No one is going to want to investigate this stuff six years down the road or seven years down the road.
No one's going to want to go and see what happened with the IRS scandal.
So that's what these investigations have really been about.
It's delay. And that's always been the Clinton playbook.
You delay everything and people just are sick of it and want to move on.
Is anyone really going to investigate?
Is Trump really going to investigate Uranium One another year from now?
So that's part of the story that isn't brought out.
And it's also payback by the liberals.
In the 1970s, the FBI and CIA broke up the Black Panthers and the Weather Underground, Obama's heroes, the heroes of Eric Holder.
Then, of course, Ken Starr was an independent counsel investigating Clinton for numerous crimes, including white water, many things.
And he was impeached.
So they see this as payback using the tools of state, FBI, IRS.
They want payback and they want to drive Trump from power because they see that power is their birthright.
It's the birthright of socialism, of liberalism.
And it's corrupt from top to bottom.
I don't think I can stand to hear Sean Hannity say one more time that it's not the rank and file of the FBI.
It's not the rank and file.
They're corrupt from top to bottom.
They're incompetent. Don't forget all these mass shooters.
Dylan Roof, the Sarnaya brothers, Omar Mateen, Pulse Nightclub.
These guys were all interviewed under the FBI surveillance and they said, oh, that's okay.
And don't think that Steven Paddock, the Las Vegas shooter, don't think that the FBI wasn't on to him either.
So the FBI is corrupt from top to bottom.
The left has a passion for destruction.
They want a permanent police state with themselves and permanent power.
And this has been and continues to be a constant grave danger for America, the radical left Democratic Socialist Party.
We're going to go ahead and bring on Jack Cashhill now. We'll keep him going the rest of the show.
Jack, are you there? We want to talk about a lot of things.
Yeah, I'm here, Joel, and thanks for having me on. Always fun.
Okay, Jack, great. Well, welcome to the Alex Jones show.
Let's start off with, you know, back in January, you and I wrote an article, the first people to look at that steel dossier.
And we questioned whether it was written by Chris Steele.
And we broke down the language and it appeared it was obviously written by a Russian or someone who didn't speak English.
Can you talk about that article that really was the first to come out that pointed that out?
Yeah, Joel, and thanks for bringing that to my attention at the time, because you were right.
You know, we got into it. It was clear that the author of that article was not an English speaker by birth.
There were so many problems with the just the context that no native English speaker would make, even a not a good writer who was an English speaker.
And as you know, I was one who broke the news that Bill Ayres had helped Barack Obama with his, with his book,
for my father, with his genius book.
And partly because I do a lot of ghost writing, I do a lot of writing.
And, you know, you look for patterns and similarities into there.
And what happened here is that it was transparently not done by Christopher Steele.
And yet at that time, when we wrote this story, that was one of the givens that Christopher Steele was the actual author of this of this book.
Well, of the of the dossier and he wasn't.
And that was the least of the problems of dossier.
I mean, the dossier we we now know is just a concocted opposition research smear job that somehow made it in its way into the highest courts in the land.
And we're going to come back, we're going to come back in a few minutes.
Yeah, the dossier went for me when they included the Democrat talking points in there that Donald Trump is not fit to run for president and so much other nonsense.
It was just so obvious.
So I think that was a real turning point.
We're going to be right back in a couple of minutes with Jack Cashhill.
Everybody come on back.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email.
So there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With infowars life select storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
With infowars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with infowars life select storable foods.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by infowars life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber.
A mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Welcome back to the Alameda Post with our host Joel Gilbert from Los Angeles.
My guest is Jack Cashill. He's a journalist who's written many investigative books including Deconstructing Obama, Ron Brown's Body, Silence, the story of TW 800 and many more.
You're going to be taking your calls this half hour. It's 877-789-2539.
Now Jack, you've got a new article out that I was very impressed with. It's called How Deep is the Deep State?
And it's a look at the history of Democrats and how you said how weak-need Republicans brought down a senator.
And you wrote, in February 1950, the little-known Senate backbencher Joe McCarthy boldly disrupted the status quo declaring that there were at least 57 known communists still burrowed in the Washington swamp.
Let's take a look at a couple video clips of Joe McCarthy.
Welcome to Face the Nation.
So here we, Jack, here we saw Joe McCarthy.
He actually used a name to brand, like the movie, my new movie, Trump, the Art of the Insult. He was actually branding people back in 1950.
Can you give an overview of Joe McCarthy? Who was he? What were his concerns? And was there a deep state he was fighting back in 1954?
Yeah, actually, you're right. He was, Joseph McCarthy, everything you know, you think you know about Joseph McCarthy, you don't.
What happened is that fake news of 1954 became fake history in 1955 and on and on and on.
And almost no one on the right was willing to stand up to that kind of sort of systematic slander until Stan Nevins, a really respected scholar, publisher,
wrote this brilliant book in 2007 called Blacklisted by History, which I absolutely recommend everyone in your audience.
I just reread it, Joel, just to get a sense of how timely that subject is today, you know, because what McCarthy was in many ways very Trump-like, very direct,
very indifferent to criticism, you know, immune almost to the kind of barbs that most people would throw at him.
But he was right. The Justice Department, the Treasury Department, and especially the State Department, had been infected by communists during World War II.
And by the time he first surfaced in 1950, they were still there. He said at least 57 years more. There were at least 80, 100.
Who knows how many, how many we knew about. Not only communists, but also fellow travelers, and they were in very important positions.
Now McCarthy was doing very well until he understood, he began to see how deep the deep state could be, and that only happened after Eisenhower was elected president.
And Eisenhower was a nominal Republican. He was also, of course, a very successful general in World War II and had a lot of popular respect and acclaim.
So when McCarthy kept up his campaign against the one branch of the Army, specifically the Signal Training Corps at Fort Monmouth in New Jersey, which was laced with communists,
because it's an important place to be where you get information, you get signals, you get, you know, all kinds of documents, McCarthy stepped on one so that he shouldn't have stepped on,
at least he wanted to preserve his career. And that was Eisenhower. Eisenhower was trying to protect the Army brand. Before him, Truman was trying to protect the Democrat brand.
They cared less about communists in the government who were infecting the government and subverting the government than they did about protecting their own stake in their own identity.
And so once Eisenhower got in the fray, about half the Republican senators realized that they would rather be cozy with Eisenhower than they would stand up for the truth.
And that's what the pattern persisted to say. You have a Democratic Party which is useless and hopeless, and you have half the Republicans, the Vichy Republicans who would rather collaborate with the enemy than they would stand up for the truth.
But then you have half of the Republican Party that means well and tries to do well in the face of that. And what you even have today, too, more than you even had in 1954, was a monolithic mainstream media.
So the combination in 1954 was enough to bring down Joe McCarthy. Trump has one major advantage over McCarthy. He has two major advantages.
One, he's president, he's not a senator. That's huge. The second, he has the internet, and McCarthy did not have that.
So he can create and has been able to create a counter information stream that neutralizes to a large degree what the major media say and do.
Look, what you're basically saying is that history is kind of repeating itself now where Joe McCarthy was up against this deep state that he was warning of subversive elements,
communist people that were trying to undermine the United States. And here we have Trump as almost a modern day McCarthy character that is fighting the same fight.
Why do you think he could be successful, even if he's president, where McCarthy could not?
He's up against a much more vicious mainstream media and an officially almost radical socialist communist Democrat Party.
Yeah, I would say in many ways his enemy is more vicious. Trump says there's no doubt it's more vicious.
I would say that the power is of his own personality and see that personality is amplified because he can be on TV or Twitter.
They have to pay attention to him. If you're a congressman, you can be neutralized easily, just like saying Newt Gingrich was after he came to power in 95.
But as president, you have that visibility and now you can reinforce it through social media.
I would say that McCarthy, though, had one advantage that Trump didn't have. And he had the FBI. McCarthy had the FBI.
J. Edgar Hoover has also gotten a really bad rap by history.
And part of it was because he was a diligent communist hunter in an administration from Roosevelt to Truman that had almost no interest at all in getting these people out of government.
Well, in terms of the modern deep state and the Republican sign, how surprised were you and were you surprised at all when we read just in the last 24 hours that John McCain and his staff were encouraging the IRS to persecute Tea Party movements?
Well, you know, in fact, I'm glad you brought that up because I was going through that. I mean, how much more evidence do you need that the Democrats and the vicious Republicans worked hand in glove?
And to your point earlier about what the FBI learned, you're exactly right. Don't email.
In this case, what shocked me was that they were that careless, that they were that open about their conversation.
And here he said, he's, what he said, we want to make it financially ruinous to be a Tea Party. And this is a alleged Republican.
And then we see the other day that I see this, I just tweeted it because it was trending where Steve Schmidt, who is the McCain advisor, said he's no longer Republican.
I thought, oh, you were once a Republican. I didn't know that, you know, he was the one who believed that Sarah Paglin cost him the election in 2008.
Yeah, the complicity made the election respectable in 2008.
The complicity, I think, was obvious. The fact that there was never a serious inquiry into the IRS interference in the election of 2012 told me that both sides were cooperating.
You know, we're going to take calls when we come back with Jack Cashill. How deep is the deep state? 1-877-789-2539, 1-877-789-ALIX. And we're going to find out more about this comparison between Joe McCarthy, what he was up against, and how Trump is also up against this very deep, deep state.
We'll be right back.
Here's a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH. What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
With infowar's life-select storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency. With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals.
Including meals such as traveler's stew, home-style potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, infowar's life-select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved one's trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with infowar's life-select storable foods.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when infowar's in Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool.
I've seen all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality Decay Man, the Real Red Pill, micro-ZX body. It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
And I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
I want to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out here, 1776 worldwide.
Welcome back to The Alex Jones Show. I'm your host, Joel Gilbert, for this hour. I guess it's Jack Cascio, the journalist and writer of books like Deconstructing Obama, Ron Brown's Body, TW 800 and so many more.
Talking about his new article, How Deep is the Deep State, where he's comparing what Joe McCarthy went through in the 50s, calling the DOJ dysfunctional, calling out communists throughout the government and in the Democrat Party and what Trump is going through today.
Let's take a call from Mike in Texas. Mike, go ahead, you're on with myself and Jack Cascio. Go ahead, Mike.
Hey, Mike, you with us? Okay, we're going to go over to, let's go over to Jim in Washington State. Go ahead, Jim.
How's it going?
Okay, Jim, you're on InfoWars on the Alex Jones Show.
How you doing?
All right, question for Jack Cascio.
Yeah, I think the deep state's just using this thing as the south of the border of the children as an illusion because they don't want anybody to really think about the children that they're taking from the American citizens here in the United States.
So they've got to keep it, you know, something, you know, keep your eye on one thing while they're over on the other side doing something else.
Right, okay. Thanks for the call.
Jack, how is the, you know, would you comment on how is today's media behaving as they did back in the 50s with Joe McCarthy where, you know, I grew up in elementary, high school, junior high, we heard about Joe McCarthy.
McCarthyism is a bad thing. It's persecution. How did his efforts to expose communism and radicalism in the government turn into being blacklisted by history and his very name being a, you know, bad word?
Well, you know, the media were much more balanced than the major media. There were still some significant major conservative newspapers like Chicago Tribune, a lot of the Hearst papers as well.
But, you know, so coming into 1954, he still had a 50 to 35% approval rating. He was reelected in 52, two years into his crusade, and he carried the Republicans into a majority position in the Senate.
And it was only after he went after Eisenhower that the wheels came off. And then the media, like even the Republican media, had to choose sides.
You know, do we take McCarthy side, who is a, you know, really kind of a straight shooting, hard hitting, impolite, rude truth teller, or do we go with the establishment Republican who has control of the White House and all the perks and privileges that come with that.
And a lot of the media abandoned McCarthy at that point. And once they did, then it was all over, essentially. I mean, he was censured in 1954, you know, and he died a few years later and sort of sent me disgrace.
So the media matter a lot. They matter a lot less now. Even though now they are much less honest and much more vitriolic.
Well, do you see the Republican Party still going through that very same dilemma that they went through with McCarthy as regards Trump and how far have they come along, whether they're going to completely support Trump or remain an outside force?
Well, you know, that's an excellent question, Joel. And right now, the thing is, if you are president, you have a stronger gravitational pull than if you're a safe speaker of the House.
So what we've seen since Trump was elected, a lot of never Trumpers have come around, especially among the rank and file. Some of them, like in the media, have so much vested interest in their, and their pouty, never Trumpism, like William Crystal, that they've rented themselves off sleep, or George Will, you know.
Others, though, have mellowed and they've adapted, because they're seeing that Trump is a more conservative president than, certainly, George Bush was, or Mitt Romney would have been, or John McCain.
John McCain was toying seriously with having Joe Lieberman BSVP, which would have been the end of the Republican Party in the short haul. So you still have a really strong core, and this is what I'd advise your readers not to write off the Republican Party.
You write off the viscid Republicans, the ones who prefer to collaborate and to resist. And there's a lot of them. But it's not all of them, and it may not even be most of them.
Look, I made the argument to some of these never Trumpers, once Cruz had dropped out, he still had people that were saying, well, we're going to, we're not going to vote, or we're going to vote for Hillary, it's the end of conservatism.
And I tried to point out to them, it's not the end of conservatism, it's the end of the Republic. There won't be a First Amendment, there won't be a Second Amendment, there won't be a Fourth Amendment.
There will be no conservatism. Trump is an imperfect vessel, but I think he's proving himself to be trying harder and probably more conservative than anybody expected.
There was a legitimate concern that, you know, this guy was hosting fundraisers for Chuck Schumer five years ago, is he really going to be conservative?
And I think if you see my film, which you've reviewed, Trump the Art of the Insult, you really see and understand how hardcore conservative that Trump really became. Let's go to Benji in California.
Benji, you're on Infowars. Alex Jones show with Jack Cascio. Go ahead.
Can you hear me, Joel?
Yeah, go ahead.
It's good to be on. I always enjoy your segment. It's very informative. I got a question for Jack and then one for you. One about the deep state and one about Hollywood.
Mr. Cascio, can you tell me how much the senior executive services, the 8,000 services, senior executive services, 8,000 of them exist in the swamp up here in D.C.
And they seem to, you know, have control of our government by proxy.
Okay, go ahead. I can't give you a specific answer to that, but I don't disagree with your thesis that they have control by proxy, especially the Justice Department, which has been deeply infected from the left for, you know, since the Clinton era at least, maybe even before that.
Okay, second question.
Okay, I think we lost them. Let's go over to
you know, adept in Kentucky. Go ahead in Kentucky for Jack.
Hey guys, how you doing today?
Great. Excellent.
Good, good. The segment's about the deep state, right? Well, here's the thing, you've got to look at it from an eagles nest sort of view.
When we're talking about the deep state, well, we're talking about going back to ancient Babylon, ancient Rome. Okay, we're talking about this attorney and cult has been weaving their way through history, you know, taking down civilizations.
These people, you know, they started Babylonian money magic. I mean, when McCarthy was going after the communists, I mean, all these communists were the Zionist Jews. These were the people that were trying to take down Germany.
Thanks for the call. Thanks for the call. You know, historically, there's always been a subversive element in especially in democracies that are trying to undermine things.
Do you think that the McCarthy era is really a repeat of what we're having now is repeating the history of the McCarthy era and what lessons do you think Trump should learn from it?
Well, you know, Joel, I think it's, yes, there is an element of repetition, but it's not as though the McCarthy era went away. You know, one interesting historical tidbit is that Joe Kennedy, the father wanted Bobby Kennedy to be the chief counsel for Joe McCarthy.
He didn't get that because I think it was because then McCarthy thought he I think he had a few of balance religiously, especially since there were a fair amount of Jewish communists. He was going to be rooting out and he picked Roy Cohn, fascinating character.
Had he picked Bobby Kennedy, the whole history would have been different because John Kennedy would never be elected president. Right.
In fact, Bobby Kennedy named his first child, Joe McCarthy, the godfather of his first child. And, you know, so there are there are there are threats that deep state never went away. Sometimes it's less toxic than it's otherwise.
I think the lesson, though, for Donald Trump is stay the course. Don't be intimidated. If at the end of the day you leave with your honor, you're better off leaving with your honor than leaving, you know, having to compromise and skulk away, you know,
I think people compromise.
Go ahead.
Yeah, but McCarthy never compromise and he paid for it. But, you know, he died on a shield, you know.
People, Jack, people forget that the Kennedys and the Democrat Party back then was very anti-communist. That's why the weather underground SDS, they hated Kennedy when Bobby Kennedy was shot and killed.
Of course, Bill Ayers memorialized Sir Han Sir Han in his book, Prairie Fire. They hated the Democrats. And the goal was to take over the Democrat Party and turn it into a radical socialist party.
And I think that's playing out today. The deep state communists that McCarthy was calling out are no longer simply embedded in the bureaucracy. They seem to be openly on the Democratic Party and even on the top of their ticket in the last few elections.
Your comment.
Interestingly, the Kennedys referred to liberals as them, not us, them. That is Joe Kennedy, John Kennedy. Bobby was beginning to turn populist to track votes and Eddie Kennedy was a lost cause.
Okay, we're out of time. Jack Cascio. How deep is the deep state? Thanks for being with us. You are watching Alex Jones show. We'll see you back at the top of the hour. Thanks for being here.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the powerhouse Pregnanone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included. A powerful Pregnanone base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra, pick me up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost at it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
That's why InfoWars Life has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line, Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle. Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce, and 16 ounce bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative. With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only available at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
