Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Democrats are trying to cause a civil
war in this country.
In fact, I forgot.
Can we print that article from earlier this year when we got the secret Soros documents
they later confirmed were real, but they tried to cause martial law in 2015, working
in blue cities with the police to have anti-fustage attacks and try to get the general public
to burn down cities, show that Obama could declare a civil emergency, it even admits
all that.
Please print me that article.
That was a Soros document show planned to cause civil unrest and martial law.
There it is.
Document details planned for civil unrest and martial law in Baltimore to then be spread
nationwide, then they plan to have the UN come in under the Strong Cities Initiative
run by then Attorney General Loretta Lynch and have the local police departments go
under UN control.
And remember, back then a couple years ago the UN was running the refugee program and
telling the State Department who to let in.
So it sounds crazy, but that's how arrogant and out of control these people are and they're
shooting for the moon, they're throwing Hail Marys, but from their experience it works,
so why not do it?
Now why am I saying that?
Clearly the Democrats are doing this whole hysterical hoax, hissy fit about the illegal
aliens' children being held in shelters, that's what they are, and comparing it to Nazi Germany
as a talking point coming directly out of the deep state, out of Brennan, out of Clapper,
out of Hayden.
They started all this, they're the people that are the shadow government, McCain has
been the head of the shadow government, but he's on death's doorstep, kind of a interesting
omen to where their deep state's going.
And so you've had this going on since the times of Eisenhower, but the official law
was passed back when George W. Bush was first in office.
Obama continued it till his last few years, and then he just started letting everybody
in and not even checking them.
It didn't matter if they had TB, it didn't matter if they had scabies, it didn't matter
what they had, leprosy, you name it, yeah, leprosy came back to the U.S., thousands
of cases now, in public schools in California, Texas, and Florida, they tried to cover it
up, but it's in the news.
And he would just let different charities that were certified by the Democrats, that
just means be a Democrat donor, load kids in vans, trucks, cars, buses, and just disappear
them.
And it came out in the Washington Post that many of them were then sex trafficked, headline.
Children, migrant children released an Obama's program, ended up in sex trafficking, headline.
Washington Post last year.
So Trump says, we're not doing that, we're going back to the law unless they change the
law and have a new system for this, we can either totally release people, or we can
hold them and take some average two days to vet them, you have no idea who these groups
of people are, sometimes thousands of them at a time, usually 20, 30 at a time.
And there's no discussion of the hundreds of thousands that die in Mexico being fed
on by the smuggling gangs, hundreds of thousands, they find mass graves everywhere, that's a
mainline number, the fact that 80% of the women are raped on their way up here, not
in the U.S., but Mexico, oh no, Mexico is perfect, Trump is a monster, and those are
the headlines, the New York Daily News, the little girl crying, Trump is heartless, Trump
is cold, Trump is evil, Trump is a monster, he's craven, oh my gosh, and they show a photo
of the cute little girl, just like the little girl washed up dead on the beach, and then
say, gotta open the borders to Europe, when it's Soros bringing them across from Libya,
it's not Soros' fault, he brings them across, they hit some high waves, a kid falls out
and dies, no, it's Europe's fault, and the same thing, these people come across by the
millions, and they're bringing their children in some cases, and we don't know who these
people are, okay, well, we check your ID's or find your ID's, make sure you're not a,
you know, it's probably been deported already five times, you're not an arsonist, a rapist,
a pedophile, a criminal, we are going to hold you while we find out what's going on, just
like when you're flying in from another country, and even you're a citizen, you get checked,
they are spinning all that now, with Rachel Maddow crying, and all this insanity, trying
to push insurrection in this country, but also trying to distract, it's such bad acting,
it's like junior high, acting level, like seventh grade acting level, and she wouldn't
even get an award for this in seventh grade, to distract from their treason and the deep
state crimes, they are panicking, now we come back, Hollywood's calling for more violence
and the kidnap of the president's son, and his rape at the hands of pedos.
Warnish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut, with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive, and support overall digestive health, with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax
fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber, that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon,
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Go to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Discover trends and global developments years before they happen, right here on the Alex
Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Democrats are desperate.
Their whole deep state plan has been blown wide open.
We are getting control back over the federal government, the country is turning around
on every front.
Poll numbers show that Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, but Black Americans, particularly,
are seeing massive increases of support for the president and his Make America Great Again
Americana agenda.
So, what are they going to do?
Thank you.
Brought me a coffee.
I forgot my coffee.
What are they going to do?
They know that as libertarians, as Christians, as patriots, as conservatives, we have a conscience
and we care about children.
You know, we're the ones that don't want to abort them.
We're the ones that don't want the EU banning people from being able to have disabled children
and forcibly abort all of the Down's syndrome children.
It's the Democrats that are the eugenicists, it's the Democrats that are the social engineers.
They're the ones that say, we want the case for killing granny, cover a news week.
They're the ones that say, kill one old lady and hire 10 teachers in a zero-sum game, a
win-lose game.
They're the ones that get up there and want government-funded assisted suicide, but at
the same time, they don't want someone who's terminally ill to have access to an experimental
drug or treatment that might save them, but will certainly help do studies that will save
others in the future.
Why is that?
Oh, no, no, no.
We don't want to extend your life even though it's your choice and you're dying, but if
you're just depressed and have nothing physically wrong with you, we want the government to fund
killing you because we want the state having the power over life and death.
That's the Fabian socialist, British socialist model that is really the dominant global system
of these big megamacs and of Microsoft and of IBM and others.
That's really who they are.
They're social engineers and they've got a huge, horrible group of weak, compromised
individuals in Hollywood who are in Salon and in the New York Times and in Vice HBO
promoting pedophilia and promoting all of this other evil garbage over and over and
over and over again.
So what's the latest?
They've got the deep state being exposed.
They've got it coming out that it's the worst bias and corruption and targeting and setups
and frame ups and failed frame ups of Russia gate and spy gate that making what Nixon did
look like heaven compared to hell.
And so what are they going to do?
They're going to have everybody hysterically on every mainstream media channel, every
program everywhere, play audio over photos dubbed of a child crying in the night wanting
their mama.
You know, I left to work this morning and my 13 and a half month old daughter who's
just beginning to have separation anxiety, even though she was with my wife, began shrieking
and crying as my son and I, my oldest child walked out of the house.
And as I closed the door, I heard my little daughter begin to shriek and say bye-bye,
bye-bye, bye-bye.
And it was so sad I recorded part of it and I wasn't even thinking of why I recorded
it.
I may actually air this because she was saying bye-bye is why I recorded it.
I didn't even think that I could play this and talk about how I deserve to have my house
burned down.
That's what Cusack's calling for.
I deserve to be kidnapped, killed, whatever, because my daughter cried and I made her cry.
Think about the mental illness of this.
People bring their children across thousands of miles in some cases, hundreds of miles
of desert.
They get here.
And then we have no idea who these people are, in many cases they don't even have IDs.
And the media only focuses on the women and children that are a small part of who's coming
across and make it look like we're just scooping them up for no reason and putting them in trains
to be sent to Auschwitz and Dachau and Buchenwald.
And we have the former head of the CIA and the NSA that did all the illegal spying, all
the frame ups, all the garbage, pointing his finger at our president and saying he's
a Nazi, loading people on trains.
And as the Attorney General pointed out, people were trying to get out of Nazi Germany.
They weren't trying to get in.
Unbelievable.
So that's the reality, and you've got the Democrats not just now pushing to distract
from the Russia gate, the spy gate, and how that's exposing their criminal activity in
the deep state, trying to overthrow an election, trying to stop an election, saying he'll never
be president once he is, we've got to keep him from getting in, we've got to block him
from being inaugurated.
Remember all that?
Remember all that and lying to you and saying they hadn't spied on you?
And they've got this little arrogant, corrupt, compromised nerd, General Hayden.
If anybody looks like a pedophile, it's him, I'm not saying he's a pedophile, but God
does he look like one.
I was casting a pedophile, I was casting a child murderer for a movie, and casting
like somebody that kidnaps kids and eats their brains, I would cast Hayden.
Seriously.
He does any little soft, gremlin-like person on a power trip who gets to look at all your
e-mail and read all you do and look at the photos you put on the cloud, you and your
wife and everything else, and he gets to oversee all the blackmail and all the control and
vault seven CIA stuff framing everybody.
And then they show photos of Obama era, Drudge has it, when they didn't have these things
set up right, so they had them under tinfoil blankets, space blankets, actually worked
pretty good if that's all you got, look DrudgeReport.com has it, so they're showing old photos
on CNN with Hayden of what Obama did and kids that were in smaller cages, not larger facilities,
and saying it's Trump when it's them.
Total frauds, total liars, but I don't know if he's a pedophile, he just looks like one.
I know he's a lying, deep state sack of garbage with Phil Mudd and Brennan and all the rest
of those crooks that have been caught red-handed, red-handed, ladies and gentlemen.
So, the next level isn't just distract from what's happened, the next level isn't just
a distract from the fact that they've been caught, that they've been found out, the next
level is to call for pedophiles to sexually assault the president's son, because that's
what Hollywood does, that's their fetish, it's what they're upset with Trump about,
that he's trying to put the brakes on that.
And so, Paul Watson's info wars.com article is top linked up on DrudgeReport.com right
now, actor Peter Fonda, we don't know he's a pedophile, we just know he's calling for
pedophiles to assault a 12-year-old, so actor Peter Peter Fonda encourages targeting children
of border patrol and ICE agents, quote, we should find out what schools they go to, scare
the bleep out of them, and make their children worry, yes let's stop children, but that headline
isn't even strong enough, do you know what he actually said and it's in the story, Paul
Watson chronicles it at Prison Planet, you should retweet it, things at IM Fonda, which
you are as a sicko, has encouraged in the last 24 hours, showing up at schools to scare
the bleep out of children of border patrol agents, quote, putting Baron Trump in a cage
with pedophiles, hacking a government database, this is really going to be an interesting
test of Twitter's terms of service, they'll probably make him a moderator for what he's
done, but it's worse than what Paul even says, he calls in the tweet for kidnapping Baron
and taking him and putting him in a cage with pedophiles, actually taking hundreds and hundreds
of people a day per sector, sometimes thousands, sometimes it's thousands that are, stop at
the border, sneaking in, and 80% of which the women have been raped, and taking them and
getting them checked for disease, giving them food, giving them clothing, giving them showers
and putting women in one area, children in another, and men in another, while you vet
who's got a pedophilia conviction, who's got a criminal arson, who's got an armed robbery,
who's been deported 15 times, who's connected to MS-13, that's keeping children from being
put in cages with pedophiles, you don't throw kids in a general population when crimes have
been committed and you're being put into there to find out who you are, that's just normal
default, having a border, having a country, but Fonda turns it around that Trump's putting
kids in cages with pedophiles and then he dreams of the 12-year-old boy, which I guess
excites Fonda, obviously being raped, being thrown in, so Peter Fonda has called for the
president's son to be kidnapped, put in a cage with child rapist, that's what he's calling
for, and he needs to get in a lot of trouble for it, hope he doesn't fall down and hit
his face.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best, get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us, that's why we design
and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon, just go to Amazon.com and search
for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon, no refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest,
thickest, center-cut, fully-cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve, savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use, order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most
concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and the rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars
so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
News, analysis, reports.
It's the Alex Jones Show.
So the sickos in Hollywood that think they've got control of this country's mind and soul
are starting to get scared.
They realize that their corrupt, degenerate, anti-human, anti-family, pro-abortion, anti-Christian
system is being rejected not just here but all over the world.
And Hollywood and the big banks and the communist Chinese are openly allied with the EU against
America.
But America is coming back and all over the world there are populist nationalist candidates
and people winning office that are now allied with the return of America and 1776 worldwide.
Why not have 1776 and just the renaissance idea of freedom is bigger than America versus
collectivism and versus globalism and mega banks that are tax exempt and exempt from
law who then tell us we can't have prosperity, we can't have families who then use racial
and cultural division to play us off against each other.
Now here's the big news, ladies and gentlemen.
The desperate scum in Hollywood are calling for violence against Trump, violence against
his family, violence against Republicans.
They're calling for confronting anyone that's a nationalist and saying how dare you hurt
children.
When Mexico has hundreds of thousands of dead in the last few years in their road warrior
level societal collapse, hundreds of thousands have been killed, hundreds of thousands haven't
been found.
They found over 100,000 buried in mass graves along the Texas border right through to Arizona
on the Mexico side, killed by the smugglers, killed by the banditos, killed by the criminals.
But there's no movies, there's no TV shows, there's nothing.
They don't humanize any of those people.
It's unbelievable.
They're constantly finding dozens here, 100 there, 20 here.
It's estimated there's hundreds of thousands, close to 200,000 dead admittedly, but they
haven't found many of the bodies in comparison.
So you've got that being underreported and then you've got Peter Fonda, this washed up
guy.
I don't think he's been in a big movie since, what's that one he's in with Jack Nicholson
born to be wild motorcycle movie.
So he hasn't been in a movie in something like 50 years anybody watched.
He's the son of a movie star.
He's a Hollywood thumb-sucking degenerate brat.
And he joins other losers like John Cusack calling for burning down the shelter centers
that the children on average spend two days in when they're vetting who's who.
Yeah.
Easy Rider.
It wasn't born to be wild, but they have that soundtrack in it from Steppenwolf.
Easy Rider.
So there you go.
So a bunch of old hippies that nobody cares about and Jack Nicholson, the big buddy with
Roman Polanski, just another group of has-beens, fossils, crypt keepers coming out and saying
we want to burn down the migrant centers.
That'll be great.
Kill a bunch of people.
And notice the Democrats are always saying I'm going to incite some out of violence.
They're the ones calling for it.
Now this degenerate, this washed up nobody, Peter Henry Fonda, has gone on his Twitter
account, document him shot please, I'm going to blur out some of the cuss words here for
TV stations that are picking this up.
And he said we should rip Baron Trump from his mother's arms and put him in a cage with
pedophiles and see if the mother will stand up against the giant.
You know what?
She is married to 90 million people in the streets on the same weekend in the country.
That's the goal.
And that's the talking point.
They want civil war.
That came out January 10th, 2018 document details plan for civil unrest and Marshall
law working with blue cities and Antifa staging riots hoping to get the citizens involved
in mainly black areas to cause a race war.
Go read the 30 plus pages yourself and they admit these documents are real.
Soros response to me publishing these is to finance a bunch of lawsuits against us.
Think about that.
So they're still doing it.
And that's why the former head of the CIA saying Trump sending children to concentration
camps.
Hitler.
No, the Democrats are advertising come here.
You've got a whole bunch of people that have made it across with diseases.
You name it.
We're going to vet them and see who they are.
And they say, oh my gosh, you're the worst person in the world.
And then Henry Fonda comes out, Peter Henry Fonda, his dad was Henry Fonda.
And he says we should kidnap the president's son and put him in a cage so pedophiles can
have sex willing.
That's the kind of sick stuff going on in his mind when Trump's keeping kids from being
put in general population where they would end up getting raped just like the Superdome
and Katrina.
And just like they do in Europe, where they do just put them in general, migrant camps
of hell.
And many of the kids Obama did just release Washington Post, you can pull it up.
Many of the children released under Obama's migrant child program ended up in sex traffic
and were killed.
That's the Washington Post.
If you guys can't find it, we had it last night.
It's a key article.
I'm going to pull that up.
So think about this.
There it is.
Obama administration placed children with human traffickers report says Washington Post.
That's the Washington Post.
Who first broke that?
Four years ago.
We broke it in 2014.
They were forced to report on it in 2016.
Now since Bezos bought them, they won't report on anything true.
They had some integrity before, so they want us to just let people in and let the Democrats
and the Coyotes on this side pick them up in vans.
And God knows where we would be all aiding true human trafficking and violating federal
law as Obama did.
Yeah, put me that article too as well.
So this is unbelievable child abuse.
The Democrats say come here, go through the most dangerous area in the world, Northern
Mexico.
Then when they get here, if we want to vet them and protect the children, we are heartless
scum.
We are the devils.
We're the worst people.
But it gets worse.
Fonda says hack government databases, ol' Pete, ol' Peter, ol' Pete, not saying he's
a pedophile.
He just wants pedophiles to be with children.
So I guess, you know, he's like the enabler, Pete O Pete, Pete O Pete Fonda, ol' Pete
O Peter Fonda, wow, you're a sick freak.
And let me tell you, you old dirty hippie, you old degenerate piece of crap.
We're going to make America great again.
We're taking the country back.
We're going to bring everybody of every color together, one race, like Martin Luther King
talked about it, all you dirty race bait and Democrats, we all see right through you and
the KKK family you're part of, the whole KKK culture.
And no matter what you do to us, we're going to break your back.
We've already broken your will.
So Madhouse crying, they're all freaking out.
They're all going crazy because they know the truth.
Then he is obsessed with children.
He says that he is going to go and that he's going to call for 90 million people to go
stalk conservatives and border patrol and ICE agents at their homes and their children's
schools to terrorize the children.
We should hack the system, quote, get their addresses of the ICE agents, CPB agents, and
surround their homes in protest.
We should find out what schools or children go to and surround the schools in protest.
These agents are doing this because they want to do it.
They like doing this.
And more and more and more show up at school, scare the bleep out of the children, put Baron
Trump in a cage, kidnap him, give him the pedophiles, hack government databases.
Isn't that just not, we need to make them worry about their children.
Ooh, classic textbook stalking, saying they're doing it to terrorize people in mafia racketeering
to make a submit to them.
It has a name.
It's called terrorism.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just 54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at heart and body extract.
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it.
Check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
HBXTrack.com, don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other people
are.
It's critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a charge, to get
them right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward
slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
Between debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply
of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars life select storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready
for any emergency with drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to
a full year.
There's no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals
such as traveler's stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast,
lunch, and dinner.
InfoWars life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Only pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with InfoWars life select storable foods.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lailania states, but a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply, but more
importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups.
You want to stop tyranny?
Well, so does he, live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Peter Fonda is saying, Rachel Maddow is saying, the former head of the CIA, Hayden is saying,
Phil Mudd, his deputy is saying it.
They're all saying we want civil insurrection, we want to overthrow Trump, we want war in
the streets, and then we've got Soros documents admitting it all.
And then Peter Henry Fonda, the washed up child star of Henry Fonda, comes out and says,
we want to kidnap, you heard me right, we want to kidnap Baron Trump and put him into
a cage with pedophiles when Trump's stopping these many of them unaccompanied minors and
finding out who they are to not put them in general population with pedophiles potentially.
And then he calls for civil insurrection, 90 million in the streets, harassing and targeting
and going after the families of Border Patrol agents, stealing their identities, hacking
into databases, harassing the children, look at DrudgeReport.com, it's all right there.
85 blast list of personal photos and identities of Border agents and ICE, Melania breaking,
call secret service after actor threatens to kidnap Baron, cage with pedophiles, absolutely.
Protesters chase Homeland Security Secretary from restaurant, there's video of that, the
media's like, yay, get them, get them, do more.
Remember when they got up on stage and told Dana Loesch, you're a murderer, and they said,
burn her, burn her, burn her.
I thought I was watching a Monty Python skit, she's a witch, how do you know, she got a
mole on her nose.
So this is what the Democrats want, they want Milo chased out of a New York restaurant,
screaming Nazi, Nazi, Nazi, when he's a gay Jewish guy, they want the Homeland Security
Secretary chased out of a restaurant, they want me chased out of restaurants, this is
what they do.
I was in a restaurant in Hawaii, sitting there with Zimmerman, ordering lunch up at the counter
because it was quicker to go back out to the pool where the kids were waiting than to order
through the waiters at the pool, the service was real slow, and I'm getting the hamburgers
and stuff and the drinks, and this woman walks over and she goes, I just want to ask you
one question, how do you sleep with yourself at night, how horrible and evil you are?
And I said, man, that's not really true, let's talk about this, get away from me, I'm calling
security, get away, get away.
They're all drama queens, they're all fraudsters, they're scammers, it's what they do, they
lie.
Bernie Sanders guy was bumping into me at the airport saying, stop touching me Alex,
stop touching me Alex, getting in close to the camera so you couldn't see that he was
bumping me.
That's what they are, they're deceivers, they're constituents, they're deceivers, in studies
they're six times more likely to engage in criminal activity, nine times more likely
not to give to charity, that's British studies, US studies, Australian studies, German studies,
liberals are posers, they're not real.
I'm not even really a conservative, I'm just a libertarian free-thinking, common sense
guy, and they hate me because of it, because I want you to be strong, I want you to be
independent, and America's coming back, great again, disability applications plunge as
economy strengthens.
Meanwhile, racial matter has now apologized for fake crying on live TV, Elijah Cummings
hasn't done it yet.
Oh man, you watch the black congressional caucus knowing that black folks are waking
up to them, learning about how blacks are 50 plus percent, other people get aborted and
learning about how the Democrats got hired by Margaret Sanger, and how the blacks got
hired by her to control them.
Democrats are leaving the plantation in mass exodus, so Cummings and everybody just get
more and more crazy, more and more out of control, with the kids are in internment camps,
they're in concentration camps, blah blah blah, he doesn't say a word about half the
black kids getting aborted, he doesn't say a word about thousands of people shot dead
in Chicago every year, black on black, he doesn't say a word about MTV and the MTV Awards
last night that I monitored, 100% race war, whites are evil, Hollywood wants to use black
Americans as the political detonator for civil war in this country and black folks aren't
buying it and they don't know what to do, it is so insane to watch it all happening.
And now, the big news, Melania called secret service after actor threatened to kidnap
Barron Trump, I called Paul about an hour ago, I said Paul I'm glad to see your stories
on drudgeport.com, but I said them threatening war patrol agents, children and saying harass
them and breaking the databases is big, but not as big as saying kidnap the president's
son, Barron, and put him in a cage with pedophiles, that's the real crime right there.
Spokesman for the first lady, Stephanie Grisham, has informed the daily caller that the secret
service has been notified of the threat and the tweet is sick and irresponsible and the
U.S.S.S., United States Secret Service has been notified.
A story is at dailycaller.com, it's on infowars.com and I'm going to just give Paul the credit
because Paul's awesome.
This is the number one story in the country right now, Paul is on it, he had the first
story, drudge had it up first, and my only angle to Paul was, I'd change that headline
to they call for kidnapping the president's son and put it in a cage with pedophiles.
And I want to add the point again that if you expand on all of this, this is part of
a talking point they're putting out.
This is what they want.
They want violence, they want attacks, they want to bully everybody into submitting.
They think if they throw coffee on me or come up and threaten me or sue me or say they're
going to kidnap the president's son or they shoot Congressman Scalise or they do all this
stuff that we're going to go, oh my gosh, don't hurt me, I better conform.
No, we bought into political correctness because it was an extension of the civil rights movement
and what conservatives and Christians did.
That was something good.
You guys hijacked Martin Luther King and all of that and now I've twisted it back into
a race-based system of guilt and control and people are rejecting it.
They're rejecting Georgetown, they're rejecting Evergreen College, they're rejecting Missouri
State where they say whites aren't allowed, white men aren't allowed on campus today.
Get me some muscle, get these white people out of here and it's a weird white lady doing
it.
That very university has signed on to the fake lawsuit against me in Virginia and they say
they want me taken off the air.
Yeah, let's play her.
What's that lady's name again?
I always forget it.
Melissa Klick.
Let's hear her come over and tell an Asian guy, by the way, it was the camera guy, you're
not allowed to be here either.
Oh, and Harvard, their internal documents have come out in lawsuits now, even CNN had to report
it saying that Asians aren't socially well and that Asians are inferior when it comes
to their social intellects.
So the most stereotypical racist stuff, but see, that's the left.
The Asians don't need them, they're the top nine performing groups according to race,
according to amount of money they make.
White people are number 10 below Asian groups and yeah, that's an older article, it just
came out this weekend.
I meant to cover it Sunday, but I got so busy I didn't get to it and I think I printed it.
It was Harvard rated Asians lower on social traits, humor and humanity.
They actually said they're not as human.
Really, my sister is super funny and super human and super smart and she's Korean.
Go to hell, CNN and Harvard and all you people, you're full of it.
She just doesn't need you.
She doesn't want to be dependent on you.
She's upwardly mobile, culturally, genetically, however.
Look at communism in North Korea, they can't even make a car.
South Korea is the most productive country in the world per capita.
The exact same people, but under different ideology, allowed to have some freedom soaring
and Harvard doesn't want that.
They want a bunch of people, they can get in there and get all angry and upset and manipulated
so they can be programmed to go out and cause more social disruption because they want you
on the plantation.
They want to train a bunch of house slaves at Harvard and Missouri State and the rest
of it.
When we come back we'll play her saying get me some muscle.
That's incredible, but hey, there's the Democrats calling for all their violence, all their
other garbage because they're desperate and they're scared and they want to do what?
Change the subject from the hearings yesterday that we're going to cover straight ahead.
Stay with us.
Our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products.
That's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula, the Real Red Pill
Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus contains the powerful Pregnant alone formula.
Now with an added energy boost.
Now, you can support your heart, brain and aging process with an added natural energy
boost.
The proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract, your bimate
leaf extract and more, paired with the powerful ingredients in the original Real Red Pill formula.
The Real Red Pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick me
up to get you through the day.
The Real Red Pill Plus is a powerful investment into the future of your mind and body.
Don't miss out on the all new upgrade to your favorite product.
Head to infowarstore.com and get the Real Red Pill Plus today.
Get Real Red Pill Plus now at 50% off.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it
in Full War's life.
It'd take hours.
Michael's DX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics and knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The Real Red Pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
It's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping.
In debt crisis, natural disasters, or even simple power outages, having a supply of
storable meals is crucial.
With info wars, life selects storable food.
You can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency.
With drinks, snacks, and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year, there's
no better place to look for healthy, easy, and incredible meals, including meals such
as traveler stew, homestyle potato soup, and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner.
Info wars life selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need.
They even work great for camping.
Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and
your loved ones trip.
Don't be caught surprised by an emergency.
Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an affordable price
with info wars life selects storable foods.
Years ago, info wars life created the powerful myco zx formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Myco zx plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
Myco zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, pal d'arco
bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved myco zx plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
So, the desperate megacorporations that finance the giant colleges that give you worthless
degrees on average are extending their call for free speech to be banned everywhere.
They also want to script themselves as the heroes, showing you've got collapsing third
world countries coming in, thousands of people being picked up a day per sector, and they
are then checking in for diseases and vetting them.
You don't put just children in with general population if somebody just trekked across
the desert of Mexico, facing the smugglers and death and 80% of the women get raped.
Oh, but the bad guys are the border patrol there, everything under surveillance, everything
brought in by the book, everybody's showered clean, given food, talked to by an expert.
That's the evil Americans that don't have a heart.
After all, it's not Nicaragua or Salvador or Venezuela or Mexico or Guatemala, none
of them ever did anything bad.
No, no, no, when they kill American tourists or kidnap people and shake their families
down or, no, no, no, no, it's America's bad, Chuck E. Schumer said so, and Rachel Maddow
said so, and remember, Melissa Click, she's a white woman, but she can tell the white
guys there at Missouri State, remember, that get me some muscle, she says to the black
guy, you're not allowed being white to come on the campus, we say so today, we've taken
control of it, they're invoking total racial division.
And I've got a new article on infowars.com by PJW, Never Trump Conservatives, their new
talking point, a whole bunch of them came out and said whites are bad and must be replaced.
So they're trying to tell all these unskilled people coming in, white people are bad, come
on in and hate white people, that's the Republicans, that's Crystal and the rest of these folks.
Wow, unbelievable, if only we could keep the hardworking Latin America newcomers and deport
the contemptible Republican cowards, that would truly enhance America's greatness, yes,
and then Crystal goes on and says, the problem is white people, that's right, it's the white
people that we have one of the most open societies in the world and all the rest of this, and
that the biggest group is Chinese women coming in now to have their babies free, who become
citizens and then get all the free goodies. See, these are race-based folks, so they all
look at the demographics and go, well America's not white anymore, let's jump in and try to
make minorities racist and make it all a race-based system instead of a system of free market.
It's unbelievable, meanwhile, Melania Trump is called secret service after actor threatens
to kidnap and rape her son. Peter Fonda, the washed up for life actor, total bumbling
Hollywood scumbag, says he wants to kidnap and put him in a cage with pedophiles. Well,
that's what the Democrats want, just releasing kids to whoever's there to pick them up at
the border having no idea, that's the child trafficking, the Washington Post has reported
that, putting kids in general population, and you know that. Unbelievable what a teleprompter
reading virtue signaler he is, so here's Melissa Klick.
I made it, can I talk to you? No, you need to get out, you need to get out. No, I don't.
You need to get out. I actually don't. Alright. Hey, you want to help me get this reporter
out of here, I need some muscle over here. I need some muscle and here come the folks.
Think about that, the getting all the minorities together and saying the whites are over there,
you're not with them, you can't trust them, only us, only me, the little professor, I'm
white but I'm the good white teaching you the other whites want to hurt you. These are
the weirdos with chips on their shoulders that seek power and now that university is
joining in the lawsuit against me in Missouri and in their lawsuit they say we want Jones
silenced, we want Info Wars taken off the air, we run America, no you don't and we see
right through you horrible, race-baiting people, just you are monsters, unbelievable.
And then of course don't forget, you've got all these other washed up Hollywood people,
they call them stars, I call them droppings, John Cusack coming out saying burn down the
immigrant centers. That way they can be picked up by the Democrat vans and buses and trains
and taken to God knows where. Washington Post reports a lot of them into the sex trade,
a lot of them killed but that's okay because John Cusack's got that same lazy-eyed look
in his eye, he's anointed, he's in movies. We've got to do what he says, burn it down
man. A lot of unbelievable stuff, you know everybody's fleeing the blue states and blue
cities, there's a new article on infowars.com by Kit Daniels, Starbucks admits they can't
make profit in blue states, we'll cover that later and we'll play the clips of the Republican
neo-cons saying white people are the problem. Everything race-based, this is the opposite
of Martin Luther King, it's such a hoax, the kids being abused as a hoax, everything's
a hoax, everything's a lie, Cummings crying, Mr. Maddow crying, all of this is a joke.
Now what are they really distracting from? What are they diverting from? We're going
to go to it in a moment, some of the powerful Trey Gowdy statements and even he's being
forced down to say the FBI's bad, the Justice Department's bad at the top, this is the worst
thing I've ever seen, this is out of control and now you've got the new talking point that's
good out on even Fox News, justice must be served, Comey and McCabe must go to jail and
that means Hillary, lock her up, lock her up, Hillary for prison. You're clear to fire
it will commander. They like to compare it to the empire or the opposite where America
coming back against the global empire, if you want to use one, it's like empire strikes
back and we've reached the shield generator, fire it will commander, target maximum fire
power, we've already blown your generators, we're coming in, it's over and you're not
going to escape by the way, so you want to use that, you go ahead and use that, imperial
troops have entered the base, imperial troops have entered the base, except patriots have
retaken the base, patriots have retaken the base, we are flushing the globalist out. Unbelievable,
so we're going to play those clips of gouty here in a moment, but first we have a new
product in ladies and gentlemen, I shot a little video about it yesterday and I'm very
very excited, it's exclusively available at infowarstoreandinfowarslife.com and we set
out to come up with the ultimate from the known information, heart and cardiovascular
body system, it is extended wise now at infowarstoreandinfowarslife.com, here it is.
It's the latest product from infowarstoreandinfowarslife.com, fuses all the known compounds that have been
proven to be good for our heart's cardiovascular system and listen, everybody's got a heart,
well actually maybe Hillary and George Sorrelstone, but everybody else has a heart and this product
is amazing, so if you have a heart and you want the very best product out there that's
designed to aid a healthy heart, cardiovascular system, it's extended wise available at infowarstoreandinfowarslife.com
and like all of our products are game changers, this baby is the most souped up awesome version
the top formula letters to come up with and still be affordable, it's one of the very
best heart pills out there, it's extended wise, so get some for yourself and family and friends,
it's got the very best fish oil from the Fjords, it's very very pure, very clean and has the
EPA type that is specifically good for the heart, cardiovascular system, it's got the
properly formulated type of CoQ10 and more, it is extended wise now available at infowarstoreandinfowarslife.com
Again that's extended wise ladies and gentlemen, this is wild harvested and this is right out
of the ocean, the very best, highest cleanest quality fish oil and it's the type, it's called
EPA that is for the heart and cardiovascular specifically, the other type is for the brain
and we've got that coming out, it's actually here but we're launching it next week and
believe me this is what I'm going to take, what my children are going to take, if you
don't know the power of fish oil and you don't know the power of what it does for your body
do the research, it is amazing. So extended wise now available at infowarslife.com and
we also have combo deals where you can get it with DNA force plus, you can get it with
fluorolife and you can get it with one of the other products that ties into this, the
real red pill which are all good for heart and body as well, you can get those at 30%
off individually or in a combo pack when you get the extended wise at infowarslife.com.
Now let's go out to break with why they're trying to cause civil war, why old Mr. Fonda,
Mr. Petey there once Baren be kidnapped and raped inside a dungeon with a pitas is because
they're trying to divert from the fact that their whole deep state attempt to stop the
take back of America failed so we'll go out to break with just some of gouting and more
coming up.
And he's talking about how important this is and how momentous it is and he's got a
fix and finish when he started with the Hillary Clinton investigation.
I have never in 20 years being a prosecutor seen a law enforcement agent with this amount
of animus and bias towards the target and I hope and pray he comes next week and portrays
himself as a victim and we got a lot more of these clips coming up that they hope we
just forget about because now they're talking about prosecutions.
The prosecutions must happen.
That's the new talking point.
We've pushed that up to the top of the mountain.
We now have pushed the rock to the top and we're about to shove it down rolling towards
Hollywood and the chai comms and all of them and they're all crapping their drawers because
America's back you scumbags.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread the videos
that you are changing the world, it's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist.
It is you, the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the info ward.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the renaissance and we are winning.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Well, we got some really bad news for you.
Article 13 and article 11 passed just about an hour ago and they'll go to the full parliament
coming up in one month to openly in the internet as we know it.
Even liberals admit that it bans memes.
It controls what you can type before you go on the internet through your browsers.
It is it is the most draconian control.
It's an electronic straight jacket and muzzle.
Here's Paul Watson breaking some of that down yesterday and then we'll come back with a bombshell
testimony that happened yesterday and so much more and I intend to open the phones up and
take some of your calls and we have a special guest, but here's Paul breaking some of it
down.
They're really doing it.
They're coming for the one thing that we thought was sacred.
They're coming to ban the memes.
Memes that University College London have developed an algorithm that can automatically
detect and censor hateful content before it's uploaded.
What could possibly go wrong?
Could this algorithm be abused by parties and social media giants to prevent the viral
spread of memes that benefit right of centre political movements and candidates?
They'd never do such a thing, would they?
But why does this matter?
Because memes can change history.
As Richard Dawkins first explained, memes are like genes for information and human evolution
has been guided as much by memes as genes.
Memes compete with each other for survival.
Control the meme, control future, human thought and behaviour.
This is about influence.
Leftist websites like Salon the New Yorker and The Guardian have been bitterly complaining
for years about the undue influence of meme warfare on contemporary politics.
They warn that the political meme has become the centrepiece of disinformation campaigns
and the ability of memes to communicate ideology is boundless.
The power of the political meme has never been greater.
Now what possible motive do you think the left could have for wanting to ban memes?
Could it really be because the left can't meme?
Surely not.
I mean surely they wouldn't.
Yeah, is that?
The University College London study found that the most effective and widely spread memes
largely originated in two places, the Donald and Paul, both of which aren't really known
for their left wing sympathies.
So now we finally have solid proof backed up by the kind of facts and logic that would
even put Ben Shapiro to shame that the left can't meme.
As we all know, if something doesn't benefit the left, the only reasonable thing to do
is ban it.
So you remember I mentioned that algorithm, which is able to identify harmful content
and prevent it from being uploaded.
Guess what the EU wants to make social media companies do?
Develop an algorithm that can identify harmful content and prevent it from being uploaded.
Well imagine my shock, the EU's new article 13 copyright proposal, which will be voted
on this week, would force websites to install upload filters that would automatically censor
any content deemed to be a copyright violation.
This is a complete misunderstanding of both fair use and transformative content, but this
is the EU we're talking about and they're not known for having a firm grasp of the sovereign
interests of the individual.
Google-owned YouTube and Facebook already have filters that block porn and copyrighted
content before it's posted.
So in effect, all this will achieve is a de facto ban on memes and a draconian crackdown
on the sharing of information.
You know, the entire foundation of how the internet is structured and what makes it work.
The proposal would also institute a link tax, which would require users to get a license
from the publisher just to include snippets from a news article like this.
I literally wouldn't be allowed to display a screenshot from a news article like this
without getting sued for copyright violation.
Click the link in the description below to contact your MEP and tell them to vote against
this absurd proposal, because if it's implemented and used as a template for other countries
outside of the EU, the internet, as we know and love it, is finished.
In short, Article 13 will impose widespread censorship of all the content you share online,
be it a parody video, a remix, a meme, a blog post, comments on Reddit, a piece of code,
live streaming your gaming experience, or even a link in a tweet.
Spain also wants to ban memes that are...
We'll be right back, ladies and gentlemen, with a completely jam-packed transmission.
They have now passed it through committee and are coming from the internet.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarsstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
You are listening to an Infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Coming to you live from the Infowars.com studios in the recaptured state of Texas, it's Alex
Jones.
Well, there's some critical articles that you all want to see at Infowars.com and get
out to people.
Alania Trump called Secret Service after Peter Fonda, Peter Fonda, Peter Fonda threatens
barren with pedophiles, says I want to kidnap you.
I want pedophiles to have their way with you in a cage.
I want to hack the names of the Secret Service of the ICE agents.
I want to leak that.
I want to harass Republicans.
I want 90 million people in the streets.
You've got John Cusack saying burn the facilities down.
You've got the Democrats calling for insurrection on the news, hashtag hunt Republicans.
This is what they want.
First Lady Melania Trump notified the Secret Service that actor Peter Fonda threatened
to kidnap her son Baron and throw him in a cage with pedophiles.
The tweet is sick and irresponsible and the US Secret Service has been notified.
First Lady spokesman said in the now deleted tweet Fonda called for Baron to be kidnapped
and thrown in a cage with pedophiles to see if the First Lady would stand up to the President.
Oh my gosh.
Meanwhile, the President for years, since he got in, has said I'd like to make this
border process when people come in even illegally better, but the Democrats won't change the
law.
We either can release them or process them and bring them in.
I'm processing them and I'm not going to throw them into general population and there's
a new video out.
It's in the article.
Want to keep families together.
It's very important.
I'm going to be signing something in a little while that's going to do that.
President Trump says about immigration policy.
So the Democrats have tried to divert from all the trade, gouty information and the
stock information and the information on the FBI coming out in the IG report and the Inspector
General's report yesterday that devastated them and showed that they were criminally
trying to frame the Trump administration and trying to keep Trump from getting elected,
period.
Dems will do anything to change the subject.
Dems will do anything not to charge them, but to obstruct what open borders, which means
crime.
And that's Trump also in a tweet talking about what's currently happening.
So that story is up on infowars.com.
It is critical, critical that people understand what's happening.
Now there is so much for me to get to that it makes my head spin, but there's other
critical videos on infowars.com like U.S. school kids wish they had the same lunches as migrant
children.
And we compare the school lunch programs that Obama put in that are still in place, by the
way, that feed people the most horrible, gruel, total scams worse than supermax prisons to
American school children of every color versus what the children are being fed in official
videos inside the migrant centers, where they have the X boxes and all the rest of a very,
very important report by my son Rex Jones.
And you need to get this out to everybody because we're in an information war, ladies
and gentlemen, we are in a serious, serious information war with these globalist now.
The time we have left in this segment, let me give you the bad news, ladies and gentlemen.
In the time we have left here, we've talked about articles in the new legislation that
the EU is trying to ram through.
Now they have a bureaucracy that actually makes the laws.
The parliament then decides whether it's going to certify it or not, but that can then be
overridden by the permanent bureaucracy.
And so the bad news is, EU votes yes on meme ban, censorship machines, and link tax, what
now?
Now, that's the next web.
That's a big establishment respecting tech and internet publication.
And the next web is attack me.
So you've also got the London Independent saying the same thing.
EU committee approves new rules that could destroy the internet as we know it.
Close quote.
So see, I first covered this, this was the TPP like five years ago, and they went, oh,
Alex, quit being such a fair monger because I actually had talked to folks that knew what
was being negotiated.
Then we got a leaked copy two years ago and then Trump killed it when he was in office
three days.
Now they've taken the exact same stuff and they put it in there and you notice this is
a tech publication telling you that the browsers, the web services, the web servers, the systems
where you upload your website, every platform under EU law, imagine the bureaucracy of this,
must then be approved by the EU and then you must add to the software systems that allow
them in live time in an example they use to see Pepe the frog and to say that's a symbol
of hate and that you're not licensed to use it, even though it's fair use and open communication,
and that it's then banned and you cannot upload it.
Now they already have this technology when you go on YouTube and want to upload music
or something, but this is going to be to your speech and to your words.
And Soros Foundation, I had stronger internet regulation in TPP.
That was two years ago, we reported on that and Breitbart reported on it.
So Soros is in charge of this and he financed 20,000 people trained by the Southern Poverty
Law Center, Snopes, and then some mail order diploma group out of Florida, I'm not kidding,
that then programs the computers already at Facebook, Twitter, Google and YouTube to control
what you can upload, what you can do and now they're just going to move that onto browsers
and on the internet platforms and on the server systems where you cannot even take a quote
someone has said if it's put in a newspaper and they claim they own it, no judge, no jury,
the mega corporations are allowed to say they own everything, they're allowed to data
mine and track everything you do via the EU all in the name of privacy, but then you are
under EU control and have no rights.
Now that sounds unbelievable, doesn't it?
It is, it's happening, it's called tyranny.
Here's even the next web, EU votes yes on meme ban, censorship, machines and link tax,
money to even link to someone and do them a favor.
Oh, look at the New York Times, we've got an interesting review of this film, here's
the link.
Oh sorry, you've got to pay us to do that.
It's breaking the internet.
Oh, you have to go through an interface that censors and controls what you can say and
what you can do and then it's programmed by George Soros's people.
I mean this is like godlike control, so they already got the leftist in Twitter, Facebook,
YouTube, everywhere censoring Alex Jones and saying he's the test case, remember just
a few months ago, the Wall Street Journal, but then once they've set that test case,
it rolls out against everybody, but you can't get any of the so-called new blessed conservatives
that are kind of like leftist versions of patriots to cover it.
They're all just like, well, Alex is getting censored, that's good for us, we get all the
attention now when you're all going to be next and it's pathetic, it's absolutely ridiculous.
Everyone should be rallying against this and people also go, well, that's the EU, oh no,
we're already under the EU regulations.
So Trump, the answer is Trump needs to pull out of all these treaties, he needs to say
no, the EU is predatory, it's out of control, it's the same Twitter, Facebook, all of them
censoring his son, censoring him, Silicon Valley, Communist China and the EU are all
going along with this together, happily skipping down the road with classic mass control and
censorship and a new editor class that stands between you and anything you can write or
say or do even on your own message board.
First they taught us to accept censorship on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google, everybody
said that's their company, they can do that if they want and now it's coming to everybody
just like Matt Grudge warned you here in studio a few years ago, just like I keep warning
you over and over again.
Now it's past article 11 and 13 out of the committee and it's going to the full vote
and reportedly they have the EU votes to break the internet as we know it, you can't make
that up.
Want revenge on the common house fly?
Well, after 10,000 years someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required.
So much fun, you'll forget you have a wife and kids, $39.95 and free economy shipping,
use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your Flice Water, get your bug assault today.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
We call it the crapper, water closet, outhouse or bathroom, but where do you go when there's
nowhere to go?
The answer is the Biffy bag.
The Biffy bag is a pocket-sized disposable toilet that fits in your glove box, tackle
box, toolbox, backpack or purse.
The Biffy bag has everything you need for a sanitary and comfortable relief experience.
It's ready to use in just seconds and just toss it in the trash when you're done.
It's your Biffy in a Jiffy, biffybag.com, b-i-f-f-y-b-a-g.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Many someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a
shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to go to the library, to go to the church, to get them
right now at killingunclesambook.com, killingunclesambook.com.
The scientists at InfoWars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and
so much more.
Turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric
root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Filling your body is hard work, that's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
Well, I got some bad news for everybody.
EU votes yes on meme ban, censorship machines, I'm gonna break down exactly what that is,
and link tax.
What's coming next, ladies and gentlemen?
What's coming next?
We're gonna be breaking that down coming up and how do we fight it?
How do we defeat it?
We mobilize against it, we have the nation state to pull out of it and announce that
we're not following it.
But again, it's the big blocks of countries with communist China, the EU openly working
with the big global tech companies to unify the censorship, the global social scores,
the censorship database interfaces that all internet computer devices will go through
run by George Soros Financed Southern Poverty Law Center Group.
Now you know why Southern Poverty Law Center has a billion dollars in slush funds offshore.
This is big.
And even liberal publications are saying this will break the internet as we know it.
Now, we have a special guest joining us in the next segment, we'll also get to more of
the amazing hearing after today.
Now we learned that there have been crimes committed and that they were trying to frame
the president and trying to stop him from winning and then trying to set him up for
Russiagate by a bunch of Democratic Party operatives just like we already knew.
But now it's front and center and now the talking point is there, justice must be done,
they must be locked up.
We're hearing Comey's name, McCabe's name, not just Strock.
So as I told you, the dominoes are falling, the indictments are already prepared, but
they're just educating the public and getting you ready for it first.
Trump is not business as usual.
He's come out in the video, we'll play in a moment and said that he never has really
been a fan of the deep state, he did it himself.
He isn't part of the good old boy club, the white shoe boy club, he's not.
He's called a maverick and a pro-American maverick at that.
But I'll tell you who the bad guys are, we're going to play these clips, it's up on infowars.com.
Former Trump conservatives want to replace pro-Trump Republicans with illegal immigrants.
And there's a whole bunch of them.
We got Bill Crystal, we got all these other folks writing for the Washington Post, Max
Boot, the neocon, and who are these folks?
Well Trotsky got hit in the head with a ice axe, the old Asia, they had big places that
made the ice and had to hack them up with an axe.
He got killed in Mexico, so all the little commies ran up to the U.S. and took over the
University of Chicago with big banker money out of New York.
And they are the Trotskyites and they said, how do we beat America?
And they said, we become the conservatives, that's how we defeat the anti-communist.
And then the one or other Republican party was so bad because they've been running it.
Well they're being removed like a face sucker from Alien 3 off the old face.
And they are.
P.O.'d big time.
So we got a bunch of these clips, chronicle, but let's play that Bill Crystal clip with
him on C-Span making jokes about it about, you know, these lazy, stupid, bad white people.
Wow, that's like Harvard came out, they got sued, had to release their internal systems
of how they score, whether you can be led or not.
And to keep Asians out, they don't score in academics as much now, that's only one-third
of it.
They don't have attitude and culture and on humor and on humanity, the humanities.
And they said Asians don't have souls basically.
And CNN had an article this weekend defending it.
Well, they scored them and said, they don't do with humor, humanity or, you know, with
social stuff, no, they do fine.
They're just not running around glad-handing everybody on average, they don't know.
They're busy trying to get the degree, get out of there.
But again, we have a communist.
His father became the head Trotskyite after Trotsky was killed and then he was given the
mantle and all the money and all the stuff, reportedly that the Trotskyites had gotten
out of Russia.
Just like the Bushes said on top of a lot of the Nazi wealth, because they were the
head Prescott for the Nazis, that's been a major one and guardian, you name it.
We broke it first, of course, from the Library of Congress documents that weren't declassified
until 2000 for the McCormick-Dickstein committee.
But this guy's got Russian money, reportedly his whole, what are all these commies show
up, they take over, they're the conservatives, they're going to lead us, oh, oh, oh Mr. Crystal,
thank you.
You're such an intellectual.
You just sit back.
You look at him, he sits back, oh, I'm so smart, oh, I'm so intellectual, I'm so intelligent.
I sit at my knee, I will tell you.
So let's go ahead and go to his lordship.
Here he is.
Look, to be totally honest, if things are so bad, as you say with a white working class,
don't you want to get new Americans in who aren't going to be, I'm serious, you can make
a case that this is going on too long and this is too crazy, probably, and I hope this
thing isn't being like, you know, videotaped or ever shown anywhere, whatever tiny pathetic
future I have is going to be totally collapsed.
You can make a case that America has become, has been great because every, every, I think
John Adams said this at the beginning, right?
Basically if you're in a free society, a capitalist society, after two, three, four generations
of hard work, everyone becomes kind of decadent, lazy, spoiled, whatever.
And then you, luckily, you have these waves of people coming in from Italy and Ireland
and Russia and now Mexico who really want to work hard and really want to succeed and
really want their kids to live better lives than them and aren't sort of clipping coupons
or hoping that they can hang on and meanwhile, okay, so that's a way over simplification
and then he throws it in like it's white people.
When you have massive corruption and problems in Latin America and a lot of failed societies
and systems, are there some good people?
Yeah.
Are there some bad people?
Absolutely.
And then when Trump says you got a lot of criminals coming in, we got to vet them, they go, oh,
he called all Hispanics criminals.
So it's this, it's this, it's this deception, but he just kind of throws in the lazy white
people, the, you know, the white people and he goes on and says more.
But now it's gotten worse.
Max Boot and Jennifer Rubin have openly expressed their desire to see pro-Trump Republicans
replaced with legal immigrants.
Writing for the Washington Post, this is the Democrat strategy as well, Neocon Globalist
Boot wrote, if only we could keep the hardworking Latin American newcomers and deport the contentable
Republican cowards, that would truly enhance America's greatness.
And then they go on from there with quote after quote, oh, such cowards, such bad people
because we don't just let like Obama did the last few years, random groups of children
unaccompanied in some cases, be loaded on buses of the Catholic church and, and of democratic
groups and just of random child smuggling groups, the Washington Post reported, oh,
there's a hunter to you here, just buy, just wander on off.
This is what's going on and it's, it's, it's out of control.
And then they know we've got such a big heart, they go, oh, you're mean here, let us play
you some more audio and video of children crying.
Now we're going to break.
They have a special guest joining us coming up and I'll just leave it as a surprise.
But first, we have our latest product at infowarslife.com.
Everybody knows that EPA types of fish oil are really, really, really good for the heart
and cardiovascular systems.
This is wild harvested in the fjords up in the North Sea.
It's super, super high quality and then it's got the CoQ 10 and then it's got the hundred
to one special type of garlic concentrated that again, we've gone out and gotten the
very, very best systems that are out there, garlic bulb extract, 100 to one equivalent
to 1000 mg fresh garlic, 1000 milligrams.
So ladies and gentlemen, it is a powerful pill.
Extend to wise, you owe it to yourself, you owe it to your heart.
He's got a heart, except I guess Hillary Clinton, extend to wise the latest product
at infowarslife.com.
We've got some big combo deals with other stuff that goes well with it, 30% off infowarslife.com.
Stay with us.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, Danpilla.com.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia.
You're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for holding.
Hey Alex, mate.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Info Wars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen
and I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool.
I've read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've
been using your products since the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then
I'm on the X2, the SuperMail Vitality Decay Man, the Real Red Pill, micro-ZX body, it's
all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know
God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that it's an
honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line, Super
Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1oz, 3.5oz and 16oz bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only
available at InfoWarsLife.com, that's InfoWarsLife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfoWarsLive.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
A lot of his supporters believe that we are the enemy of the American people and that
is really, really an awful situation.
We are not the enemy of the American people.
We love the American people.
We are not the enemy of the American people.
We love the American people.
We love the American people.
We love the American people.
They came in peace.
We are not the enemy of the American people.
We love the American people.
This is CNN.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
There is a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
Alex Jones.
The far-right conspiracy theorist who was a parent.
Alex Jones.
Scott.
Russian.
Scott.
InfoWars comes to mind.
Reputation is amazing.
I will not let you down, you will be very, very impressed, I hope.
We will open the phones up and take a ton of calls in the third hour because I know you
want to talk about all the things that are happening, Space Force, the Democrats running
this giant hoax that Trump is abusing children when it is the opposite, Hollywood saying
burn down the immigrant centers, Henry Fonda's deranged loser son coming out, Peter Fonda,
saying kidnap Baron Trump, put him in a cage to be raped by pedophiles, harass the children
of Border Patrol agents, Latin America is collapsing, hundreds of thousands have been
killed in Mexico alone, they are eating their dogs three or four years ago, the dogs were
already gone in Venezuela, and it is all pouring in here, 80% of the women are raped
on the Mexico side, we are not doing that.
And then you get all these thousands of people and you go, okay, we are going to vet who
you are, kids over here, women here, men here, inside these big old facilities with chain
link between you, you can't put the kids in with the pedophiles, that is not what Trump
is doing, he is doing the opposite, but Fonda, he comes out and says, but that is what they
want to do to Baron as if he deserves that, and then the DHS head gets run out of a Mexican
food restaurant by a bunch of people chanting racist and shame on you, they are weaponizing
the Democrats and getting them into a crazed hateful out of control mode, and the idiot
followers that go along with this are unbelievable.
Now I am really impressed with the gentleman we have got on with us, the amazing Lucas
and he is amazing, I have seen his 3D character animations, I have seen the effect that he
is 2016 muscle classic physique champion, the muscle classic, that is one of the biggest
ones out there, and of course, previously a personal trainer, the amazing Lucas on
Instagram, Twitter, I am amazing Lucas, YouTube the amazing Lucas, and I am telling you, his
videos are powerful, we have aired some of them here, but here he is with us in the flash
via Skype to get into whatever he wants to cover, it is great to have you here with us,
thanks for joining us.
Hi, thanks for having me on the show, Alex.
What do you want to tackle first, the insanity of what is going on, what is your view of
this thing where we are following a 20 year old policy, but Trump is actually enforcing
it, wouldn't it be child abuse just to let a bunch of people randomly go with random
adults, you have no idea who they are?
You are 100% correct, but I think everything Parkinson's back to is a quote from Voltaire,
what he states is once you make people believe absurdities, you can make them commit atrocities,
I think that is what is taking place, everything from Steve Scalise shooting to Antifa to more
presently Kirsten Nielsen, who was yelled out of a restaurant, and I think what we are
seeing right now is exactly what your channel is, an info war, because people are listening
to the media and what they are saying, and when I was trying to go on Google to research
what the facts of the issues were, it was all saying Trump is separating families, Trump
is separating families.
Going to the second page, the third page, the fourth page, and they are built to results
just as they did during the 2016 election, and it's gotten to the point where I can't
blame people who are acting out now, because if you actually believe that this man is Hitler,
then of course you should do everything in your power to take him out of the Oval Office,
and the thing is that's what these people actually believe, it's the same thing with
the LGBT and the transsexual, back in the day if someone were on the street corner saying
I'm an airplane, you know what, we need to get you some help, nowadays you'd have a lefty,
you'd go up, there's a helicopter pad right over there, do you need something I can build
a hovercraft or something for you so you can fly, and that's what it's gotten to, there's
a place of coming to just ask nine soft history, that's what it's gotten to, I think it's actually
a sick moment in time where this country is, we'll have to fight the media.
I am speechless, the way you boiled that down, amazing Lucas, is amazing, because they now
have people at Google, you're not joking, the Google execs make people get an AmpliFeeder,
over 300 of them, it's in the lawsuit, Google admits it, and worship the vice president
as a beautiful ornate building and a female dragon, a dragonette, and people think that's
abusive, hell yeah that is, hey if you want to be, you've heard how we're having to pay
in England and the US, in some jurisdictions people identify as blind, so they're dumping
Drano in their eyes, a psychiatrist is, and then we have to pay for them, no, if you want
to get rid of your eyeballs, you need to be in a rubber room in a straight jacket so you
don't hurt yourself.
Alex, that's hate speech, you need to watch what you're saying, I mean anytime, what I
call them is hate facts, and once you post these hate facts that completely contradicts
what these people believe, what their whole foundation, their whole reality is rooted
in, well you have two options, they either acknowledge what you're saying is truth, or
they walk away, or simply what's going on right now, you have the xenophobic, the bigot
thing, homophobic, transphobic, the racist, the massages, all of these terms to silence
people, to center them, so they don't have to listen to what you're saying.
And you're right, and why are the big megacorporations funding it, because I want to get your take
on that because they know they can't compete with a free market, they can't get control,
but if they teach mental illness in the schools and the colleges and make us all accept it,
they can create a totally dysfunctional society that they as the high priest then can navigate
and referee and control and decide what mental illness is kosher, what mental illness is
Prasada Nangrata, go ahead.
You're 100% correct Alex, I mean we can see this more prominently within the black community,
how they completely crippled them, I mean you can see how they're doing it in the schools,
what they've done in the black community, they want, as I always say, white liberals
want to keep blacks dumb, and they want to keep them poor, they want to keep them dumb,
they want to keep them poor so they're upset, they want to keep them dumb so they don't
know why they're upset, so when they get upset, what do white liberals do, who they plant?
Look at those conservatives over there, they're the reason that you're poor, they're the reason
that you are where you are, don't worry about the vouchers, don't worry about getting vouchers
to get better education, don't worry about that, don't worry about reforming the welfare
state, no, no, get you guys on welfare, we need that, and I'm like for what, for votes?
They've done this time and time again, so let's say we do get the vouchers, now what?
Now we get into higher education, they're implanted there, they're completely ingenious,
we have these liberal professors in these schools, not talking to students who go to
UCLA, USC, my sister went to USC, she just recently graduated from law school, and you
have these liberal professors who are not teaching, they're indoctrinated, and they're
smart, they're not worrying about adults because they're focusing on the children, they say
no, that's where they're putting their money in, and you gotta fight, you have to, that's
the only reason I had to speak up, because it got to a point where the inauguration happened,
and they said, oh, his inauguration speech was very shitlers, very dictator, I was like,
that's strange, I've never heard that from a president, you know, someone talking about
a president that way, and then it got to another point where they're talking about
crowd size, I'm like, that's strange, because the video I saw, there was a big crowd size,
and then it got to the MLK, oh, he removed the MLK bus, he's a racist, he's a racist,
fake news.
Exactly, wow, I want to hear what made you activate and become political, because you're
smart, and again, they're pushing people, it would just be out there having a regular job
into politics for survival, he's amazing, we'll be back.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100%
organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced
of 99.99% ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order
to produce thyroid hormones, which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy,
weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together
to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH. What we learned was that
there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned
is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply. But more importantly,
a good water filtration system will purify it.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack
to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help
you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement
with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your
gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars
Life Daily Digestive Pack today. As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with
your body's nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals
needed daily. That's why InfoWars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula,
the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation. Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique
delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acids, and more. Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting,
natural, and affordable drink mix with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Well, the amazing Lucas is amazing, and I just started seeing his videos about six months ago,
and that's why I wanted to get him on, but he was busy a few weeks ago that I don't want
on vacation. We got him now, and let me tell you something, I find it very interesting.
Somebody like the amazing Lucas, who is, I mean, Fox News ready right now, basically,
but they wouldn't have him on because he'd wake many people up. I mean, he's got it, and it's
so interesting how he was saying it was the unreality that made him go public. I was at the
inauguration five rows out, but it was so close up under the president I couldn't see the speakers.
Okay, I mean, my seat was the front row if you weren't in the actual group up on top,
but then you're looking up 30 feet, I could just barely even see it. So you can see me in the famous,
maybe they can pull it up, CNN megapixel photo, where it's like hundreds of megapixels,
where they took a photo from behind the president, you see it going all the way back one of the
biggest crowds ever. And you can see me right back, there's a few deals looking right there at the
president. So I'm like 50 yards away. Now, the reason I say that is I got upset when CNN
showed when they first opened the doors. And, and communists were trying to not let people in
and antifa, I was there, I physically got in fights with them, I saw them beat women up.
And then they showed when it first opened up and so did the MSNBC and BBC and said,
no one was there. No one was there. No one was there. No, I was there. It was a record crowd.
It took hours and hours and hours to get in. I had to fight. There's video of it to get in.
And then they didn't just try to steal my right to be there, like a bunch of thugs,
they lied about what happened. And, and the amazing Lucas said that was his moment finally
to go public. That is so incredible. Just seeing that mass lie saying no one was there and showing
when the gates first opened from a photo from the Washington Monument, it's that raping of the truth,
isn't it? That got you to take action and got you to go from the career you were already going
down doing this. It's changing your destiny. And there's so many other amazing Lucas's out there,
men, women, black, white, Hispanic, old, young who love liberty. And you all need to do what he
did because now he's reached tens of millions of people in just six months. So again, talk about
your awakening because it's so important. Well, you're absolutely right. What you, what you set
out. So there's just got to the point, because I wasn't really focusing with the eight years of
Obama. You know, I, my mother would constantly tell me, you know, this is what's happening. This
was going on. I was like, okay, okay. But the media, they were like, he's crapping rainbows.
So I was like, okay, let's see what's going on. And then it was such a stark contrast when it
got to Trump. And it was just this myriad of, of just, just falsehoods or just hyperbolic rhetoric.
Everything from the inauguration to the, to the Mark Luther King bus, to just petty stuff,
where he would say, you know, I have the best words. They would say, that's a lot.
And they would get him, Trump, that's a way of talking very hyperbolic statements, you know,
where we have the, we have the best men, we have the best people and don't constitute that as a lot.
I'm just like, I've never seen an attack like this. And anyone, anyone who remotes, remotely
tries to attend, defend this man, we saw with a Carter, how they're talking about, oh, well,
he's looking for a position on the Trump administration. Jimmy Carter himself said,
he'd never seen any, anything like this before. You've never seen an attack on a president like
this before. But if you try and say something like that, especially within the black community,
how they turn, they have turned black conservatives as if we're the enemy of black people. And I
always would make a, a clear distinguishment in my videos between black people and black
ignorance. How I define ignorance or is anyone, they come in all races. White people have
an ignorance in their race with the Nazis or the, the, the, the, the Klan's men, the white
supremacy, his Spanish with the MS-13. The thing is, is that it's overrepresented, we're overrated,
overrepresented in the black community when it comes to ignorance. And they have this divide
where if you support Trump, you're against black people. Well, that's what MTV and Hollywood,
I've talked to top hip rappers, I mean, on, on record, you name it, that they said,
they were told in the eighties and nineties, you're going to push gangster rap and you're
going to do this or we're not going to play your stuff on MTV. They did that on purpose.
They took the worst examples of the African-American community and force fed it by design.
Exactly. It's a hundred percent. But do you look at it? But what are the, what's the narrative
about? That's why I realized that optics is so important. When you have Michelle Obama talking
about GOP as the, the, the party of old white men, the optics are so important and liberals know
this. So you look into the issue of things, you know, like, huh, that's not as it seems to be.
A Democrats want to talk about, you know, we, we love black and brown people, but
that's interesting. When you look into, to plan parenthood, what is it that the more blacks were
killed through abortion than born? We're, or plan parenthoods primarily in low-income black
neighborhoods. We're, we're Margaret Singer. They want to hush, hush about Margaret Singer.
She was a racist eugensis. But, but you have black people talking about, yeah, yeah, you know,
uh, a plan parenthood, I say on plan parenthood. I'm like, do you not know the history? Do you
not know the history of the Democratic Party? But they spun that with the liberal professors
talking about, oh, the party switch. I'm just like, it's one thing after another. They hedge
everything that they say. And when you look into it, they want to talk about education,
the vouchers. They want, they, they try and hold blacks and everyone for that matter,
anything that falls against her narrative. And white liberals, they're so in health,
they're highly intelligent. I got to give it to them because everything
they're super manipulators, that's the moment amazing Lucas should come to.
When you realize, I think they were just misled idiots. No, at academic level and above,
they know there's a game plan. They're following an exact script. And that was in the wiki leaks
where they're talking about, we're losing control. What are we going to do? Let's have more culture
war. And then they just ramped it up. But do you think it's back starting to backfire? I mean,
because it's gotten so cartoonish that, that, that, that, that people aren't buying it, except the
weak minded, they're going into a totally crazed mode. Like these Hollywood people saying killed,
you know, conservatives, a kidnap Baron Trump, a burn down people's houses. That's the real problem
is that certain minority of idiot white people, black people, Hispanics that are morons, they're
really buying, like you said at the start, they really think they're fighting Hitler. They really
think when the CIA director, former director says Trump's taking kids to Auschwitz, that they actually
will hell, we better free him from Auschwitz. Exactly. Exactly. It's like, oh my goodness,
you're hearing this. And I was like, you know what, if I actually believed just at just base value,
what they were saying, I'd be right there with them. This is horrible. This is a travesty.
But they've limited, they've dumbed down the American people. They've dumbed them down.
You did your studies have shown this, that people are no longer critically thinking.
They are so easily swayed by pleas of emotion, completely palatious arguments,
but they're emotionally sound. Oh my gosh, oh, this sounds so horrible. And it's just like,
no, none of that is backed up by facts. You know, when they want to talk about science,
conservative state science, but they want to give woman of the year award to Caitlyn Jenner.
Oh man, but you want to talk to me about climate change and the impact that we're having,
but you believe peanut butter is a gender? Like, come on, at least be consistent.
They're trying to make us accept whatever their latest PS is. That's really it. They're trying to,
they're at war with reality. And the thing is that they have the people on the spotlight.
Like you were saying, all of this hyperbolic, just defamatory, inflammatory nonsense,
this dribble that's coming out. Well, it's gotten to the point that people who are on the left
are now slowly inching over to the right. So now slowly inching over to the center.
And they keep on saying, oh, we're winning. We're winning. And they don't understand
that by doing this constantly, constantly saying the man is evil, 90% of the coverage
is negative. Evil, evil, evil, that people understand, hey, not everything this man
could possibly be doing by probability could be evil. So something, something's not right here.
Let me, let me go and look this up. Huh? That's not true. Why are they saying this? And we're
seeing this, it's, but at the same time, they're clever because they don't show that. The same
thing what they did with the 2016 election. Oh, Hillary's gonna win it. Hillary's gonna win it.
Every person they have in the spotlight, every person they show, yep, I think Hillary's gonna
win it. And in Trump, he just needs to get out of the way.
And it creates this perception that, that everybody agrees and that everybody's on the
same page and that's not the case. But then when they lost the cognitive dissonance kicked in,
they've doubled down. Now the economy's coming back and we get all these Democrats
going on TV and saying what you and I already knew. I want the economy to implode. So these
people are dependent on us. I wanted depression. I want the economy to crash. Bill Marr said,
well, he's got a hundred million dollars. The average person's living paycheck to paycheck.
How evil is that? And how disconnected are they? They're completely disconnected. And I think
people see that, but I don't think they see that. And I don't think that's what's being
portrayed. And the same thing I feel is going to happen come 2020. Because right now, God forbid,
you say you're, you're a Trump supporter or you, or you even say anything favorable to Trump.
People are like, Oh my God, you're a Nazi, you're a Hitler. And that's what's happening. So people
are going to be a little silent. And they come 2020. That's when they're going to show it with the
polls. And they're going to, it's the same. It's this, this feedback. There's a documentary on
MTV, how they're saying, you know what, we, we show people what they think they want. The people
see, Oh, that, that was perception management. But it only works from the weak minded, as you said.
And just like they said in the New York Times, 99%, 98% chance Hillary will win.
They had that on their front page for months. But a few hours later, when she started losing,
then it went down. They said 55% chance Trump wins. I mean, it's just a made up crap number.
It's amazing. And the amazing Lucas is here. We're going to come back. Go ahead. Amazing Lucas.
Sorry. But did you notice response from the anchors out there? Oh, they're, they're dejected.
They want to tell me that they're giving air and non-bias news.
Like what? But I've been hiding it. These are the death throws. We'll talk about the death
throws of the globalist next in full war's life is launching its newest product. We're really,
really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber. And it's got the very best concentrated
fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for
your body and for regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live active culture, floral life, as well as micro ZX, the targets, the yeast, the mold,
and the fungus is in the gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new
incredible fiber product and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really,
really big savings and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce
these products to you bodies sold out at a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can
come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today infowarslife.com.
Years ago, info wars life created the powerful micro ZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we
had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health. Myco ZX Plus is the result
of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's no better product to help your body fight back.
Myco ZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked. Powered by an
impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties. Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Myco ZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
By the way, I was just talking to the amazing Lucas. He's going to be in studio with us next week.
Amazing. I am so excited. So you seem to really have your finger on the pulse of this and I'm
fascinated. We'll talk about some policies next segment and then you're going to go. Then I'm
going to take calls and some of the other news issues in place of Trae Gowdy clips that are
really powerful. I've been critical of him, but now he's starting to really wake up.
But you're awakening. You're already awake because I've seen your show. I've seen your clips.
I've read about your conservative Christian family, successful, understanding the American dream.
But the fact that you saw late brazen lies that were so ridiculous, like it really freaked me out
that I was in those giant crowds and watch hundreds of thousands turned away because they
couldn't even fit in to the mall. And then to see all the news say no one was there. It was a failure
that like that they would tell a lie that big no one they were going to be caught told me they'd
gone from lying to crazy lying. And I, I think the establishment just can't give up. I think
they're crazy. I think it's all boomeranging back on them right now. And the evidence shows that.
So A, do you agree with that? And where does this go?
Where's it go? That's a good question. That's a very good, amazing question. But you're absolutely
right. But the thing is there, like I say, it goes back to a very intelligent about how they
go about information. They mix, intermingle those big lies with little lies and the little
lies with little half truths. And they play these games of semantics. Like I was looking at this
notes report how they say that's false. That's false. And they play the games with semantics,
interchange policy with law, and people don't catch that. And they take advantage that the fact
that people have lives. So not everyone has time to go and research what MSNBC says is actually
truthful. Not everyone has a time in their day because they have families, they have, you know,
bills to pay to go and research what CNN says is truthful. So they're taking these people,
these news outlets at the work. And they're taking advantage of people. That's what's happening.
You're absolutely right. You know, the media made fun of Trump for weeks that he put up big photos
where the press would come through the press room of the record crowd. And they said, oh,
the insecure president keeps showing it. You know, he's really sad that no one showed up.
No, Trump was fundamentally freaked out. Not in his ego about his crowd size that the media would
lie like that. I mean, that should really a public event. It'd be like a sold out Super Bowl.
And you show a photo five minutes after the doors open and nobody's there. You go, oh, look,
nobody showed up the Super Bowl. It'd be like, what the hell is wrong with our media? We all
saw it. It was full. But those those stories are suppressed, Alex. That's your thing. It's not about
what you know. It's about what you can prove. And what you can prove isn't shown to the spotlight.
Well, then you're crazy, man. That's what it is. If you have every news outlet saying this is a lie,
this is a lie, this is a lie. And they change these lies and the truths through repetition.
And it's like this brainwashing that's happened taking place in America. I'm out here in California.
I heard a lady actually believe that Trump was a Nazi. I'm just like, I just had to take a moment.
He's like Super Pro Israel. His daughter's married to an Orthodox Jew. He's always been Pro Israel.
He's the guy that was the first guy that he's racist. I'm 44. I can't believe that 40 something
years ago, there was still golf clubs that didn't let blacks and Jews in. Trump's the guy that bought
all those and opened it up. Mar-Lago did not let blacks and Jews in. He did that. I mean, it's like
it's crazy. Island award as well. Sorry. Did he get an Ellis Island award as well? Absolutely. Yeah.
But you'll never hear any of this. You'll never hear anything. So you see how quickly they turn
to Kanye West. They stick to the narrative. That's the thing. If you fall out of that line,
well, you've got to get yourself back in line. And the thing is, Trump gets your cancer and
they blame him for ruining chemotherapy. They all, he ruined the economy.
You know, let me ask this one to come back and get into other issues and play some clips here,
but the amazing thing is when we come back, let me ask you this. What happens if they are able
to assassinate him? God forbid, but that's what they want. And what happens if they do get the
economy to crash? Don't they think they'll get the blame when they're all over the place trying
to crash the economy? Because we're all neck and neck with these folks. Don't just think
because we're winning now, we're going to win this whole thing. Yeah, half times here, we're like,
you know, seven points ahead. But that doesn't mean Jack did least squad. We don't keep our
head in the game. We'll be right back with the amazing Lucas. Nourish a probiotic friendly
environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Info Wars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive
and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber. Prebiotic fiber is
soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food,
absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system. Info Wars Life's cutting edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients. Cheap
prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic
acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum
prebiotic effect. Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Waging War on Corruption. It's Alex Jones.
You know, every time Donald Trump Jr. or Trump tweets it in FullWars.com article,
it becomes a major news cycle for two or three days because the left is all about gatekeeping and
then they'll lie about what I've said and lie about what I've done. They used to call me a racist,
but nobody bought that, so they moved on to other made-up stuff. But Donald Trump Jr. tweeted out
our story today from infowars.com. It was Paul Watson that first discovered that
Peter Fonda was running around engaging in all those activities and saying that we need to
kidnap Barron Trump and we need to put him in a cell with a pedophile, put him in a cage,
and we need to go after the board patrol people's children and scare them. We need to
hack their databases and dox them and all this other crazy stuff. And again, that's what it's
all about. We shouldn't be letting them decide who we have on or who we talk to or what we do.
I mean, I'll just tell you point blank that some of the same folks you've seen on national TV
promoting Trump that became big controversies that were just mentioned a few minutes ago,
they wanted to come here today. And then the security and the record companies,
everybody are like, well, let's wait on that. Let's not do that. Again, you don't want us to
Baker act you again, do you? That's the level of behind the scenes I'm dealing with. I'm going to
just leave it at that. But that's the level I'm dealing with to just try to get a guest wants
to come on and they say, listen, get down, girl, get down, get down, girl, get down,
you're not going to show will lock your ass up. And it's not like I'm even over here trying to get
this person on. And then it's about that close to happening. And let me tell you, all hell breaks
loose, because Hollywood wants to run all these artists and control all these people. And it's
coming to an end. Because most of these rappers, even people that have put Trump down have stated
his house. And they know the truth about Trump. And they know it's a load of crap. And they know
what we just talked about. He was the first guy. I'm 44. I've found that these people are racism
in this country. When Trump first started getting live courses 40 something years ago, right around
the time I was born, the early 70s, he was the guy that bought Marlago and all these places
that were local clubs owned by the local elites, who they would not let Jews or blacks in.
Trump's the guy that bought more than 20 racist courses that of course were in decline and fallen
apart. They were super nice. But you know, the old crazy people were dying off. And he's the guy
that brought the black people into the fancy golf courses. And that's why he was in all the rap
songs and love all the black folks, because they all knew Donald Trump was a cool guy. And then
they turn it around that he's this big racist. But the truth is Kanye West knows it's not true.
Lewis Farrakhan say what you want. I disagree with what he says. He knows Trump's not racist.
All the rest of this stuff, because it's it's it's that's not what's happening. This is the
reality. I'm ranting. The amazing Lucas is on with us. There's so much going on. What do you
want to hit next, my friend? Man, what can't we cover? You know, everything from the legal
legal immigration that's going on, the narrative they have there to collusion. We saw how collusion
took a backseat. We saw that that went real hush hush. And we saw the spin they did on the Kim
John oon summit. I'm like, how do you see that as him validating or justifying Kim John oon?
It's just like we went from that and then to zero tolerance policy. Oh, he's breaking up families,
breaking up families. He knows how every outlet is saying Trump is separation of families,
separation of families. I'm like, zero tolerance policy said nothing about that. There's nothing
that states mandatory separation of families in the policy that the zero tolerance policy has.
But yet it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because that's the narrative that they're going with.
And it's so clear the Democrats even admit they've dropped the collusion story because that's all
been proven to be a fraud beyond Watergate. And they've now moved on completely amazing Lucas
to this made up border thing. And it's just not working. What do you predict they're going to do
next? Whatever happens with the policy that Trump allegedly is going to be signing to end
separation of families and all that. You want to know who's going to be credit for that? Not Trump,
the Democrats. Like, thank God, thank God the Democrats stopped this evil man. Thank God,
we have to resist. They were in control of Congress when that law got passed. So now
they're going to take credit for Trump getting rid of their law. Of course they are. It's
absolutely genius. And who's to call them out? You think CNN's going to call them out? See,
we have Don Lemon calling the president a racist. Imagine that.
You know, I'm not normally speechless, but I mean, it really is starting to get completely and
totally insane. Amazing Lucas. What is that robot sound? I love that. Nobody else has got that on
there. It's like a pair of fire missiles. Are you sitting on drop a missile base or something? I hope
not. But you never know nowadays. I think someone's car is being towed. Oh, that's what I'm hearing.
Seriously, though, you're out in LA. Do you share your thoughts openly? Your videos have
millions of views. I mean, right out of the gates, you're very successful. People want to hear what
you have to say. Obviously, you're a smart, good looking guy. Have you got any haters on the street
or what have a lot of you gotten? Well, the thing is, the beautiful thing about being this,
the skin color, they're not very likely to call me a white supremacist. They're not likely to say
that, you know, I am a white privilege. So I won't go out and, you know, say Trump,
awesome, Trump, awesome, Trump, but I'll wear like a MAGA hat, just to spark conversation.
You know, I'll wear, you know, build the wall shirt, just to spark conversation.
And I get that, that invites people to talk to you. It's like, hey, are you a Trump supporter?
It's like, yeah, don't you know he's a racist? What, what racist things have he, has he done?
Well, you know, and you get this Socratic method where you have to have them explain what they
believe and do that process. They come to the realization that either A, what they believe is
completely false and they're going to accept the truth or B, that they're going to hold on to the
lies and the confirmation bias that they have and walk away. And that's usually how interactions go.
They're like, oh, you have a point or no, you're not to buy.
You know, I've got stacks of news here in front of me, but the last thing I want to get into you
with is the EU votes yes on meme ban censorship machines where there's an interface we all go
through to browse or get on the web. It's even going to control people on message boards. Soros
literally runs it. It sounds like I'm in like a comic book or something. This is so ridiculous.
And a link tax that now got passed out of the EU committee and they're trying to pass the whole
thing. I mean, this has got to be a wake up call for people that they know we're intellectually
winning. So they're openly just like the colleges trying to censor everything. I don't see them
winning this battle. What's your view? I don't see them winning at all. But they will win it
if people don't stand up and say something. That's that's the main thing. If you don't stand up and
correct someone when you hear them spouting out lies or falsehoods, it is your job as an American
to correct these falsehoods to correct the fake news that's being propagated and spread throughout
social media, Google or or or or or or television, wherever it is, wherever you hear it, you have
to correct it because once you once you correct one person, well, guess what? That has a rippling
effect in the community and that person corrects another person and the truth gets out. But you
have to take a stance. You have to fight. I know many people aren't, you know, don't like public
speaking. They don't like confrontation. But at the end of the day, you can either be silenced
or you can speak out and fight for your freedom. And that's what it boils down to. That's what
many people are going to have to decide whether they choose to speak up. And I'm not saying speak
up at work or something and get yourself fired or have an argument with the teacher or something
like that, because people on power, when they can dictate your grades, if they don't like what
you're saying, guess what? You'll get a B or you'll get a C or you'll get an F because, hey,
I don't agree with you. So be wise about it, be intelligent about it, just like the liberals
are doing. But at the same time, you have to speak out because this fight is only going to get,
it's only going to get worse out in 2020. I hope everyone realizes this. This is the easiest it's
going to get because come 2020, because you saw that Hillary lost election, what did they do?
Russia pollution, where they say blame it on Facebook. Why do you think that is? They have
Facebook, they have, you know, Instagram, they have Twitter. What do you think that's going to
be used? You think that's not to be weaponized? You think that's not to be weaponized like the
IRS when Obama said absolutely not that didn't happen. Turns out it actually did happen. And
people when you understand out of everything the word learning right now, imagine if Hillary Clinton
won't imagine that and you know damn well, that's what they were betting on. Mom would have been
the war. Oh, they're still, they're still going along with her whole game plan, even though she
didn't get in. I hope she goes to Hillary 2020. That's why I've been trolling. I'd be like,
Hillary, please let her run again. But you hear this, they're trying to keep people like, please,
Hillary, shut up, please be quiet. Exactly. All right. Well, listen, the amazing Lucas,
where he gets you that ticket, you're coming in studio next week. I really appreciate it. Love
you. Appreciate you. You're amazing. I am amazing Lucas on Twitter, the amazing Lucas on YouTube,
Instagram, the amazing Lucas. God bless you, my friend. You'll get attacked by the gatekeepers
for coming on, but they didn't stop Donald Trump Jr. from just tweeting us. So I'll talk to you
in the break. You're awesome. Got gouty stuff coming up. If you like alkaline water or know
someone that does, you're going to love the Dylan living water bottle. It creates alkaline water
on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money. Made with surgical grade stainless
steel, the Dylan bottle increases the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant
water anywhere you wanted. Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost
energy. The Dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal
hydration. Get your Dylan bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co. Get the ultimate knife at an
ultimate price. The Fox Carambit knife, finally available in the US. The Fox Carambit knife
opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense, and for way
less than other knives of this caliber. Go to theultimateknife.com. Truly the best knife you
will ever own and only available at theultimateknife.com. Use promo code radio at checkout for free
shipping. Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at theultimateknife.com. Most of you know
that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the US. What if I told you for just
54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract.
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart. Don't just take my word for
it. Check out all of the success stories at hbextract.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305. Hbextract.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a
better way. The bug assault. A miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as
ammunition. Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife and
kids. $39.95 in free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase
at bugassault.com. Fire your flyswatter. Get your bug assault today.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world? It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist. It is you,
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer
pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world. And that's why you've been
on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info war. And
now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email. So there's no way the
sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, Intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance
and we are winning. Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be
a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this myself the
last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to
end up being the number one best selling product info wars life.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war.
So it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation. Try alpha power exclusively available
info wars life.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO. It's for your brain.
It's for sports. It's for activities and it's made in the USA. Get your alpha power today
at info wars life.com. Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You know, it gives me a lot of hope having people on like the amazing Lucas we just had on.
And you know, Trey Gowdy has really whitewash a lot of stuff for the FBI and the Justice Department.
We don't have to grovel the FBI and the Justice Department and say how great they are.
Every time we criticize something that some bad person did what you say is in history,
you're always going to get corrupt bad people in any institution.
And we need to target them when they're corrupt and when they do bad things and go after them
and not think, Oh, that impunes the institution. No, people respect institutions that go after
bad people and tear them into pieces. You know, the globalists are laughter like Jones used to
not trust the government. Jones used to be anti government. Joe left us walk over the
more sophisticated ones and they go, I remember when you used to not trust the government,
you used to actually stand for something good. They always attacked me before,
but now you just grovel to the power structure and you just grovel to Trump and you just,
yeah, because we're not going to have 300% tariffs against us anymore.
He's like saying you got to cut your tariff in half to 150. That's what he did with China
on all their manipulations. He's like, okay, you got a $900 billion deficit with us.
Stop it or I'm going to do 50 billion.
And then that didn't do anything. He goes, okay, 200 billion.
I'm telling you, knock it off. We're still 600 plus billion dollars behind them,
even if he does this new thing.
Canada, and I love Canada has a 270% tax on everything dairy, cheese, milk, cream, yogurt,
butter. What do you think that does to Wisconsin?
By the way, I'm not a snob. I buy Canadian jam and Canadian stuff that, you know,
and I did go to Whole Foods for Bezos on it. I mean, I like buying French this or German that.
I want to see what it's like. I like global trade, but man, Germany don't have a 50% tariff on all of
our produce and then pull all sorts of inspection crap. I want to get to gaudy. It's just, you know,
I'm a numbers guy. I actually live this stuff. I live looking at hundreds of articles and video
clips a day. I know what's going on. And Trump is very pragmatically knowing this big corrupt
system is the system. So he's doing very small little fixes just to get the ball rolling to test.
And then little things are helping us. We're like a starving man or starving woman that hadn't had
any food in a week and hadn't had water in a couple of days. And he's just, here's a little water.
Here's a little biscuit. Oh, look, you're doing better. Here, let's give you a little piece of beef.
And the media is like, give it nothing.
And he's like, oh, you don't like the 50 billion? How about 200 billion? And China's so arrogant.
I saw a CNN article this morning. I meant to, I got busy. I didn't send it to you.
I just got to go to CNN. It's something like China cuts investments in the U S 90%.
Now, see, I knew China's investment numbers because I follow that before I read it. And I went,
wait a minute. And it's a peak. It was like $15 billion four years ago.
China is the most one sided in the world. We make 600 billion in actual trade deficit.
I know the 300 billion intellectual property conservatively. And then our companies make
over a hundred billion investment a year in, in moving to China.
And then China goes, we're mad at Trump. We've cut from 15 billion to three billion
since he got in a year. What the frickin do? There it is. Chinese investment in the United
States has plummeted 92%. Oh, Trump artists, everything negative. Go ahead and scroll down.
The story is as fake as Rachel Maddow's tears. Remember when Obama couldn't even squeeze
a tear out? So he was like touching the corner of his eye and he scrolled down. There's a graph on
there. And then look, if you actually look at what was real investment, I dug deeper,
I said 15, but they say 26. But if you actually look, it was actually 15 because that was actually
in US companies over there. So let's just take their numbers, 26 billion. And now it's two billion.
And that's what I'm saying. It's a drop in the bucket. It means nothing.
China doesn't invest. That headline should be China doesn't invest in the United States.
But instead of spending a dime in the US, they now spend a penny
or 90% less. That's the real headline. They're gang raping us. China is a military action to shut
us down to destroy us. Let's go out to break with some of Trey Gowdy. This is what all the
belly aching and lying about kids and concentration camps is about. So you don't hear this.
Now we're FBI agents and attorneys who decided to prejudge the outcome of the Hillary Clinton case
before the investigation ended. I want you to let that sink in for a second. They prejudged the outcome
of the Hillary Clinton investigation before the investigation ended. And these exact same FBI agents
and attorneys prejudged the outcome of the Russian investigation before it even began.
If prejudging the outcome of an investigation before it ends and prejudging the outcome of an
investigation before it begins is not evidence of outcome determinative bias for the life of me.
I don't know what would be. That is textbook bias. It is quite literally the definition of bias,
allowing something other than the facts to determine your decision. These agents were
calling her president before she was even interviewed. They were calling for the end of
the Trump campaign before the investigation even began. They were calling for impeachment simply
because he happened to be elected. That is bias. And with all due respect, this is the FBI's job,
not mine. Hit pause again. We're going to play more of this. This is powerful.
It's beyond bias. It's organized crime, a racketeering operation to defeat a candidate,
then to defeat an elected candidate, president-elect to stop the votes of America. It is a
giant civil rights violation that makes what the toothless KKK did in the South look like small
change. You dropped the shark, bitches. And now it blew up in your new world order faces.
And now even Gowdy can't toadie for you anymore. Let's finish up with toadie.
Be harmless because I don't agree. I think bias is always harmful. So we'll spend a day on a small
and number of a significant and leadership group of DOJ and FBI officials, officials who had leadership
and supervisory roles in the Clinton and Russia investigations and who failed to meet the basic
expectations of fundamental fairness. But there are tens of thousands of FBI agents and DOJ employees
who do meet our exacting expectations. We will not be calling their names today, unfortunately,
because we don't see why. Back up to the beginning. I'm going to play it when you come back and give
the number up. I'm not in an FBI butt kissing brigade, but it's true. What Gowdy is saying here,
I'll probably come back, is it was actually FBI whistleblowers, is why we know about a lot of this.
And then that's who he's alluding to there. So there are good people there.
And but the Clintons and the globalists have been putting their people in leadership
for decades, folks. We have to admit it. We have to get these people out of there.
Why is Strock still there? Lock his ass up. We'll be back.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you to.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX
or my website, danpilla.com. It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need,
period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does
it all at only two cents per gallon? Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water
filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using
code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping. Between debt crisis,
natural disasters or even simple power outages, having a supply of storable meals is crucial.
With InfoWars life-selects storable food, you can make sure you and your family are ready for any
emergency. With drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year,
there's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible meals, including meals such as
Traveler's Stew, Homestyle Potato Soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
InfoWars life-selects storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need. They even
work great for camping. Simply pack a 72-hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food
for you and your loved ones trip. Don't be caught surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked
up today with all the food you need for an affordable price with InfoWars life-selects
storable foods. InfoWars life and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest
release, Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3. Winter Sun is a premium quality
vitamin D3 nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense
plants known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free
of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research and
development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the
best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winter Sun
vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory
and brain function, something the globalists are targeting. Visit infowars.com today or call
888-253-3139. You deserve a deep rest while sleep with knockout by InfoWars life. Our organic
formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to
get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the
pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Biblical. What he means is Old Testament. Yes. Real wrath of God type stuff. Fire and brimstone
coming down from the skies, rivers and seas boiling. 40 years of darkness, earthquakes,
volcanoes. The big rising from the grave. Human sacrifice, dogs and cats living together,
mass hysteria. I have sworn upon the altar of God, eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man. Thomas Jefferson.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, this will be a big news item that Donald Trump Jr. dare tweet an infowars.com link of
Peter Fonda. He's not a pedophile himself. He just called for Aaron Trump to be kidnapped,
the president's son, Melania Trump's son, and to be held in a cage with a pedophile and for the
names of border patrol agents, children to be hacked and customs border patrol to be hacked and
be given out of the public. And guess what? Antifa's already done it and is sending out their names and
where they live and saying attack them. But do you know the news? I'm betting money. There'll
be a bunch of news articles if they're not already out. Maybe type in Alex Jones and click
Google news. I bet George Soros' group is already in just a few hours already saying,
how dare you? We tell you what you link to. Have they done it? No, they haven't done it.
Here go back to the top. There's just hundreds of articles a day. Oh, look, but Peter Strock
escorted from the FBI building. Look at that arrogant guy that ran the Hillary cover up,
ran it all. Peter Strock.
It's amazing, escorted from the FBI building. Is he about to get fired?
That's the bare minimum. That guy needs to go to prison.
I keep mentioning it. So let's just play. There's an eight minute statement by Gowdy
that's very powerful, but this is just the last three minutes of it. So let's back up where we
were and let's go ahead and play Gowdy. And again, he's kind of like Canary in the coal mine.
Now that he is finally a former federal prosecutor admitting that you got a big
group of bad people at the top. It's a small group, but it's still a large group that would
engage in this. I mean, this is reckless. This is crazy. I mean, if you're going to frame somebody,
that's bad enough. You're going to send text messages about to everybody. You're going to
take money from Hillary, half a million. You're going to pay your wives that are running the
fusion GPS to make it up millions of dollars. I mean, these guys were all the video, the full
videos on news wars.com. You need to get it out to everybody because the news is just playing
like 20 second clips. I've got his full eight minute statement on it and you need to see it.
It's all solid gold. But speaking of that, let's go ahead and just go to it. Here it is.
There were FBI agents and attorneys who decided to prejudge the outcome of the Hillary Clinton case
before the investigation ended. I want you to let that sink in for a second. They prejudged the outcome
of the Hillary Clinton investigation before the investigation ended. And these exact same FBI
agents and attorneys prejudged the outcome of the Russian investigation before it even began.
In prejudging the outcome of the investigation before it ends and prejudging the outcome
of an investigation before it begins is not evidence of outcome determinative bias for the
life of me. I don't know what would be. Let's hit pause. That is back at the beginning. I'm going to
play it from the start. Plus, if you start going out and just deciding who's guilty without evidence,
you're going to get burned when it comes out that they were innocent. It's all just crazy.
Even if you were a sociopath, you wouldn't want to operate like this.
But these leftists just think competence means nothing. They can just get away with anything.
You can't do that. You can't smoke three packs of cigarettes a day and then wonder why you get lung
cancer when you're 55. You can't drink a bottle of vodka every day and wonder why you get liver
cancer or your liver fails. You can't go out in the middle of, you know, a bad neighborhood and
start fights with the biggest guy and wonder why you get your teeth knocked out. But you people
don't seem to get that. You think you're just going to say, kidnap the president's son in
raping and then we're all going to crap our drawers and go away or you're going to threaten me and
my family and I'm just going to go away? You don't know who you're dealing with, idiots.
We've been busy leading our own lives and then you keep messing with us. You're going to make
us come down on you just like the amazing Lucas I had on earlier. That guy's a successful one.
National Bodybuilding Championships. It works at big video game companies. He's very successful.
He doesn't want to get political. He has to. Junior people at those video game companies
make 300,000 a year. He didn't want to become political, but he, you know, he's watching the
news and they're saying no one's at the inauguration and then he goes and looks up raw video and it's
full and he goes, that's crazy. And it is crazy. And people say, why are you obsessed on that?
Because if they'll tell you nobody's at an inauguration and show you video before they
let the crowds in and try to get away with that, it shows you they're not just liars. They're crazy.
Because it's one thing that people lie sometimes and I don't defend that, but
at least it's well thought out. You're like, well, that's bad. You're lying, but at least you're not
a loon. You don't walk out at high noon in Texas and point at the sky and it's pure blue with a
big old yellow sun and go, that, that's a black sky. And I'm like, no man, that ain't a black sky.
And your guy is Alex. I'm like, I'm about to knock you upside your head. Get out of my face.
There's a difference. I can't get them out of my face. They want to run my kids.
They want to run my life. They want to tell me that there aren't two genders. They want to,
I'm not doing it. They are just trying to get all their followers in line to follow whatever
weird crap they make up. And here's the newsflash. I'm not doing it. Look, here's, I'm going to
play the gowdy now. Play the gowdy now. Here it is. Were FBI agents and attorneys who decided to
prejudge the outcome of the Hillary Clinton case before the investigation ended? I want you to
let that sink in for a second. They prejudged the outcome of the Hillary Clinton investigation
before the investigation ended. And these exact same FBI agents and attorneys prejudged the outcome
of the Russian investigation before it even began. If prejudging the outcome of the investigation
before it ends and prejudging the outcome of an investigation before it begins, is not evidence
of outcome-determinative bias for the life of me. I don't know what would be. That is textbook bias.
It's textbook frame up. It is quite literally the definition of bias. No, a frame up. Allowing
something other than the facts to determine your decision. These agents were calling her president
before she was even interviewed. They were calling for the end of the Trump campaign before the
investigation even began. They were calling for impeachment simply because he happened to be
elected. That is bias. And with all due respect is the FBI's job, not mine, to prove that bias can
ever be harmless. Because I don't agree. I think bias is always harmful. So we'll spend a day on
a small in number, but significant in leadership group of DOJ and FBI officials, officials who
had leadership and supervisory roles in the Clinton and Russia investigations and who failed to meet
the basic expectations of fundamental fairness. But there are tens of thousands of FBI agents and
DOJ employees who do meet our exacting expectations. And we will not be calling their names today,
unfortunately, because we don't do IG investigations on agents and prosecutors who do their jobs with
character and professionalism. To those agents and prosecutors who do the right thing, the right way,
and for the right reasons, we'll get through this. It will be tough and it will be difficult,
but we will emerge on the other side with a stronger FBI and a stronger Department of Justice
because we have to. We cannot have a justice system that based its decisions on anything
other than facts. Do our fellow citizens watching at home be unrelenting in your expectations of
our justice system? Never lower those expectations. Respect for the rule of law is the thread that
holds the tapestry of this country together. And it depends upon you having confidence in those
you empower to enforce the law. And importantly, do not ever accept the notion that those victimized
or impacted or negatively treated because of bias or prejudgment have any burden of proving harm.
Bias is intrinsically harmful. It is the making up of your mind based on anything other than the facts.
To frame up. We use a blindfolded woman holding a set of scales to symbolize what we want in a
justice system. And there is nothing more antithetical to justice than lowering that blindfold
and making up your mind based on who is standing in front of you. That's right, but they made it up
to begin with. We'll be right back. Stay well. Guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial
part of prepping between debt crisis, natural disasters or even simple power outages. Having
a supply of storable meals is crucial. With info wars life select storable food. You can make sure
you and your family are ready for any emergency with drinks, snacks and meals in amounts ranging
from 72 hours to a full year. There's no better place to look for healthy, easy and incredible
meals, including meals such as traveler stew, homestyle potato soup and a variety of other
meals for breakfast, lunch and dinner info wars life select storable food will help you eat
comfortably in a time of need. They even work great for camping. Simply pack a 72 hour kit to go
and you have easy to cook and transport food for you and your loved ones trip. Don't be caught
surprised by an emergency. Make sure you're stocked up today with all the food you need for an
affordable price with info wars life select storable foods. Living in volcano may sound more
dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in Leilani estates, but a lot of us on
the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain. Volcanic ash
may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH. What we learned was
that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater. Next we tested
the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe
measure but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As it turns out the filter on the Alexa
pure raises the pH of the water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can
contaminate a rainwater supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it.
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one of
the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal
absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so
much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients. Bodies combines
turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for
full body support. Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 188-253-3139.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world? It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist. It is you,
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the
peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world. And that's why
you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info
warrior. And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that
everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the renaissance and we are
winning. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Being a privatized, they are turning our atmosphere into their atmosphere. We are
like a natural resource to them. To clean the planet, move on to another. They want the
dying indifference. They want us drugging. We could be pets. We could be food. But all we really are
is lies. Our impulses are being redirected. We are living in an artificially induced state of
consciousness that resembles sleep. We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center
in the heart of the Resistance. All right, I should have played this video right up front
in the broadcast. But I got my wheel spinning when I saw the Pito Fonda when he calls for
his son to be kidnapped and raped. So Pito supporter, Pito voyeur, whatever. Peter Fonda.
I mean, it is a good nickname. Peter Fonda. Peter Fondler. Peter Fondler. Peter Fondler.
Peter Fondler. It fits. I'm not saying he's a pedophile. He just wants the kids to be kidnapped
and put in cages with pedophiles and obviously raped. And he wants the numbers and home addresses
of DHS employees giving out and people going to their homes and schools and quote stalking their
children. I mean, that's such a crime, ladies and gentlemen. You know, under Clinton,
I had Secret Service, FBI, all of it visit me over nothing.
Over calling Clinton a traitor and a piece of garbage and I hope he goes to hell. They'd come
and say, are you planning something? I'm like, no. I don't want Bill Clinton to turn into a martyr.
Well, I want to ruin my life and be in a super max prison. No.
But at a certain point when Peter Fonda and John Cusack and everybody's saying,
burn down ICE facilities and kidnap kids and go to their houses and arrest their kids. I mean,
I would be a liar if I didn't say that I would like
to punch Peter Fonda right in those big old ugly Mr. Ed teeth. I'm not saying I'm going to do it,
but when I hear about kidnapping kids, anybody's kids and put them in rape cages and he's just
a sack of crap. He was never a good actor. His dad was a famous actor and then they've got this guy
up there and it's just like, good Lord, why do I have to look at this person?
I mean, who wouldn't want to slug him in the face? Let me be honest.
Just another delusional washed up. The day he was born, never a big actor riding on daddy's
coattails. And then now he wants to say all, he says all ICE people are evil. They're bad
racists and they deserve going to their kids schools to scare them and their houses. And I
want you to go after them. And then now Antifa got the article. It's from, it's pulling up some
drugs report.com. It's on infowars.com too. Antifa, Antifa spreads a list of ICE agents
and where they live compiled using LinkedIn and blasted over the internet. And ISIS, excuse me,
Freud and slip, another produce group, Antifa are led by college professors and stratskyites
and a bunch of them have been indicted and I'm done. I mean, you guys just keep pushing and
pushing and pushing. But I know you're so low, you might bomb yourselves and blame it on me. So
I'll never do that. But if one of you Antifa people I've already had punched me and hit me before
years ago, if you ever lay a hand on me, I am going to clean your clock. You have been warned.
I am going to turn it loose. It might take three seconds, but you're going to get punched really
hard and your head's going to do a little basketball dance off the concrete. I mean,
I'm just so sick of you little methhead devil worshipers.
I'll be honest, I'd like to take a big bite out of your face.
And I've had enough of your bullying crap. So and you're lying and you're just the scum of the
earth. I mean, get them off the screen. I can't look at them. Whoever knows who those idiots are
anyways. Oh my God. Yeah, there's the shot of the guy. There's a famous video where the guy walks
over and likes his punching people and they fight back and he goes, I'm a tranny. I'm a tranny.
I'm a woman. Don't attack a woman. Did you see the video last week that they aired it? I never
got to it. Hey, I asked McBreen to put it in the folder. He might have forgot it might be there.
We'll go ask him. I'm going to go into overdrive to cover this. I know Mike Adams is coming into
house doing a great job. But can we show that footage of the kid last week who's in an after
school program and he's trying to beat up adults. He's been reportedly kicking cars and then he's
attacking this adult and the adult just pushes him down and he goes, there's this whole fake thing
that he's hurt, then threatens everybody. I wanted a bleeped version of that.
Yeah, here it is. We have the footage. Is this bleeped?
But there's the full one too where they explain what's happening. He does it all. Okay, so back
this up. This is perfect liberalism. They're going to attack you. He's reportedly in trouble.
One of the people tells him to stop, knows the kid's mom calls him. This is a full like
eight minute video. And the little kid looks like he's about 10 or 11 starts attacking some guy
who's probably only five eight. He's not starting to fight. He lets the kid hit him a bunch. Finally
the kid smack him in the face. So he pushes him down. Then the kid whines, screams, blows up.
But this is perfect leftism. We're going to attack you. And then if you we're going to tell people
bring your families, the borders are open. All these folks with disease, crime, hundreds of
thousands died trying to get here. We just try to vet and find out what's going on.
We fight back. And then you go, Oh, police, help me. I just assaulted them.
So here, here's, here's the footage. Here it is. He's just called the kid's mom.
That's what happens in the full video. Please get your son. He's starting to fight with all the
adults. This kid is running wild. He's never really been put in his place. Now he punched him in the
arm, hits him in the side, hits him in the face, hits him in the ear. Finally, he just pushes him down.
And instantly the baby cry. Oh my God, Trump did this. You're the baby crying. We've got to like
open the borders up. They are missing cars. He was, he called him and he starts, they start kissing.
And now he cusses all the adults out. He says he's going to get his mommy and call the police.
I told Sean to come out here and get this kid because he just kept running around here and
cussing me and all that. I said, you need to tell this kid to get out of here.
Sean came out here and told him to go and he went down right where he bikes at and
turned and dropped his bike and ran back up there and started pushing Sean. So you
don't need to put Sean in there. Yeah, he's a nice little kid.
He was pushing right away. Now you want to fucking choke me? You're a piece of shit.
You need to watch your language. You're gonna fucking choke me and throw me on the ground.
I only pushed him 10 times.
You fucking choke me and throw me on the fucking ground. You fucking get away. You need to step
back. You are. You got some problems. Yeah, you got some big problems. Well, that kid.
I'm sorry. Some little kids like 11 year olds were punching me four of the times. He's not going
to get pushed down. He's going to get, then he wouldn't be talking crap anymore because he'd
actually be on the ground. Nowadays, you can't even spank your kid. No, gotta give my time out.
My dad would have taken me out his busy day to whip my ass. That's Mr. Foxworthy.
Can you even imagine if my dad saw a video of me talking to women particularly like that,
it would have been a serious situation. But that's the left doesn't want you to discipline
your kids. They create these little spoiled monsters and then incubate them at the colleges
and then turn them into these bullies that then go, I need some muscle. Call over this 20 year
old thug. But let's go out to break with Maddow crying. Maddow so upset right now. She cares so
much. Here's Mr. Maddow. Let's go out to break with her. Here it is. We've been talking about the
story all night, but the AP has just broken some new news. This has just come out from the Associated
Press. How fake is this? Trump administration has been sending babies and other young children.
She's laughing during the fakeness. How bad is this? Some rubber headed to at least three.
We put up the graphic of this. Put the graphic of this. Thank you. Do we have it?
Three tender age shelters in south Texas.
They weren't put in the general population.
Then she laughs.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through mother nature to detoxify
the body. That's why I'm introducing Z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's
made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info or it is a classical 360 when this is the formula that
I personally have been taking for over a year. And now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your
family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as
clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of America to reignite those
brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support
and your prayers together we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with
Z shield and infowarslife.com. You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products
we have it in Fuller's Life it take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price it's
stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida
it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's
the precursor all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot
more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering infowarsstore.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so
essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex jones show
i talked to Nigel Farage who is the donald trump slash ron paul of europe
a few weeks ago on the phone he said oh italy's gonna vote for independence it's all collapsing
it's incredible but he said trump's gotta hold the course on immigration because that's the weapon
of the globalist's great national sovereignty and once you start backing down they just get
rid of borders entirely like europe's done well he has basically issued a warning to trump everybody
else at merkel and all these open borders people are super unpopular they're imploding they're
falling apart and it's critical critical uh that that that conservatives nationals libertarians
not buy into this garbage so let's go ahead and play that clip from fox business today here it is
so what do you think about what's happening in germany you know she was the most powerful european
leader you know being in power for over a decade she was the dominant figure not just in germany
between the entire european union and one decision has completely ruined her career and her legacy
and it was i think the worst decision any western leader has taken in modern times as many of you
just want to come can come over a million people came into germany and you know we've now seen in
the last four years over a thousand people in europe killed or maimed by refugees coming into
these countries and a new party in germany has emerged it's called the afd the alternative for
deutschland it's getting near 20 of the polls and it's put the absolute fear of god into the
establishment now she's got two weeks to try and convince the european union to change direction
but it's a bit rich isn't it for the person for the person who opened the door to save the rest
of europe it's time to get up she's finished the president the president says you know germany has
this high crime rate that's gone up he gets lambasted by the media here saying that the crime
rate has technically gone down but if you look at the numbers 2015 2016 and that's when kind of this
all really became a problem uh the violent crime rate went up something like 10 in germany these
are murders right oh yeah and 90 of those crimes were attributed to young male refugees this is
coming from reuters and please don't forget crimes against women yeah i mean you've got good policy
please remember the police were ordered to cover up crimes so they're much much higher that that's
all over europe but remember that as well and again that's from the peak of three years ago it's
gone down some because they've gotten control of it and it's slowed down now there's a new way of
coming so continue crimes against women yeah i mean you've got basically what are called refugees
are in fact young males 80 of them are under the age of 30 they come from cultures in which women
aren't even second-class citizens is anyone surprised that you know the huge rise in sexual crime
uh look immigration led to the grexit vote immigration led to the new italian government
immigration will finish off angela merkel and president trump was elected on a very tough ticket
of dealing with illegal immigration and now you've got the liberal media screaming at everything he
does but the one thing's for certain if trump does not hold true and really tighten immigration
many of those people who came out and voted for him won't do it again so he is you here too so
let's take a look at some numbers because they're having a 27 increase in asylum seekers in the united
states that's just in 2017 you mentioned president trump and his tough stance you also see the other
side of this how this week especially the talk has ramped up about what's going on at the border
about the separation of families with the kids what do you think the united states can learn
from what's happened all right the full videos like 15 minutes long it's on info wars dot com
and news wars dot com please don't forget this broadcast is listed supported by you we have amazing
products just like our info's game changing well our products are game changing and info
wars life dot com and here's our latest product extend wise the latest product from info wars
life dot com fuses all the known compounds that have been proven to be good for our hearts and
cardiovascular system and listen everybody's got a heart well actually maybe hillary and
george sort of stuff but everybody else has a heart and this product is amazing so if you have a
heart you want the very best product out there that's designed to aid a healthy heart cardiovascular
system it's extended wise available at info wars life dot com and like all of our products are
game changers this baby is the most souped up awesome version the top formula letters to come
up with and still be affordable it's one of the very best heart pills out there it's extended wise
so it's up yourself and family and friends it's got the very best fish oil from the fjords it's
very very pure very clean and has the epa type that is specifically good for the heart cardiovascular
system it's got the properly formulated type of coq 10 and more it is extended wise now available
at info wars life dot com our team is always looking for new ways to improve our products
that's why we've created the newest version of a fan favorite formula the real red pill plus
the real red pill plus contains the powerful pregnant alone formula now with an added energy
boost now you can support your heart brain and aging process with an added natural energy
boost the proprietary energy blend includes powerful ingredients like green tea extract
your bimate leaf extract and more paired with the powerful ingredients in the original real red
pill formula the real red pill has just what you need to support your body while getting the pick
me up to get you through the day the real red pill plus is a powerful investment into the future
of your mind and body don't miss out on the all-new upgrade to your favorite product head to info
wars store dot com and get the real red pill plus today get real red pill plus now at 50 off
a lot of his supporters believe that we are the enemy of the american people and that is
really really an awful situation we are not the enemy of the american people we love the american
people but we are not the enemy of the american people we love the american people we love the
american people we love the american people we are not the enemy of the people we love the american
people this is cnn
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
now they think you're a goldfish i've been betting on you my whole life i believe in you
i don't think you're stupid one man and the rest of us are all over and we're kicking these
trainers asses politically and we're not backing down at her i want to kick these people we're
waiting i can feel the spirit rising can't you we have broken their back yes i can feel it
let's go come on come on come on come on come on come on come on come on come on
vengeance is coming fire is coming the real revolution against you is coming
and you will burn in hell we're breaking the conditioning infor wars comes to mind alex
jones alex jones alex jones but there's a lot of controversy around this network about alex
jones google is being accused of hiding negative stories about hillary and her campaign
by changing its algorithm to bury stories like the clit new body count story that's according to
website infor wars mr ricketts confirmed there are recent shooters to the fully automatic weapons
martin martin lucerskin has been shot to death in mental symmetry jfk was shot from the back
and the front he would almost admit you were planned in motion it just panicked it took the
baby out of incubators and left the children to die on the phone box i think this is a national
security imperative we have clear things that we do not understand how they work operating in areas
that we can't control ufo is this global governance at last is it one world the central bank is in
charge is real claims the attack was accidental but some former us naval officers say it was on
purpose they described the day's action as part of a continuing cover russian intelligence compiled
a dossier on mr trump during visits to moscow russian scum denied everything he called it all fake news
and he accused cnn of being fake news this is a national operation if they kill trump or remove
trump it will cause a massive civil war in this country this is a theme of high level
we are at war with russia are you aware that mr stone also stated publicly that he was in direct
communication with jillian assange and wicks the white house the president are citing info wars
they can shut us down you're next if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
it's alex jones and welcome to the fourth hour mike adam is here filling in for the fourth hour
of info wars broadcast today it's a pleasure to be joining you today although i am concerned of
course about the future of our nation and what's going on i want to hear from you in this segment
so we're opening up the phone lines and i encourage you to call in on the fonda issue or border
control how the left wing media is exploiting children yet again everything that they want
to accomplish they have to exploit children the phone number is 877-789 alex that's 877-789-2539
and please limit your topics for today to the border issues and the exploitation of children
by the left wing media or what i call actually a journal terrorism if you think about it the
left wing media has transitioned from you know a couple of decades ago you could say you could
argue then that they were in the news business now they are in essence inciting a level of
violence and hatred that will spill over into terrorism in the united states and this has already
begun to happen we saw today i believe the arrest of one individual a democrat who was threatening
the children of was that an ice agent or was that another member of congress i'll have to check the
details on that but we're seeing the violence starting to break out now and remember we had
that democrat go to the baseball game and try to shoot and kill conservative members of congress
including uh well a senator rand paul who was there and survived that shooting and steve scolese
of course was hit and potentially killed i mean nearly killed but he survived it thanks to uh
medicine and thanks to emergency services and thanks to the capital police who defended him
and what i see happening here you gotta understand this is an intentional agenda to push america
into a state of open kinetic civil warfare this is this is an attempt by the media establishment
to drive this country into a state of civil war so that they can call for you in occupation never
forget this is about creating chaos this is about creating uh terrorism on us soil this is about
protecting criminals through sanctuary cities and this is about creating so much chaos that
eventually even if trump stays in office and even if he wins in 2020 and even if conservatives
continue to win at the election booths they will still cause so much chaos and violence that they'll
call for you in occupation of america that's where this is actually going once again info wars is
ahead of the curve on understanding exactly where this is going and why the mainstream media the
left-wing media is trying to push us in that direction bottom line they can't win on the merits
of their arguments they can't win a debate so they have to censor everyone they can't win on logic
and reason and historical facts they can't win on legislation so what do they do they resort to
screaming babies that's their argument their argument is a screaming baby in your face
that's the argument of the left because they have no basis anymore they have no logic no reason
nothing let's go to rick in new mexico calling in on the line rick we've only got a couple minutes
left but welcome to the show welcome to info wars let's hear what you've got to say on this issue
good how are you today i do believe that founder should go to prison
immediately and for the last two days i've been trying to call the white house switchboard
to leave comments and messages for the president to have comey and me were put in prison immediately
so rick i really appreciate your view on that i happen to agree with you but can you state why
you believe that james comey should be imprisoned in particular well because he's been the clinton's
patsy board for the last 30 something years when clinton was in arkansas he was his attorney general
there coming up covering up me to arkansas all the drugs and how do you think someone like comey
is worth 45 million dollars well let me ask you this rick uh do you think that there's any real
chance that someone like james comey will actually face prison time in the united states is trump
going to be able to drain the swamp or do we have a two-tiered justice system and there's no hope of
ever holding these people accountable what's your take i'm hoping they get held accountable i really do
and i've also called the fb i often hear new mexico and told him i you know that i just don't trust
anything these guys say anymore and the jet doj system should be gotten rid of immediately also
i think it's just to cover up everybody else's cover up well you are a well-informed american
thank you for your call it's rick right new mexico thank you for your call i appreciate you
chiming in i think many listeners and many americans agree with you we're going to go to another call
right after the break which is coming up but i have seen on other other other websites that
people saying that the fbi and the doj one website designated them as quote enemy combatants which
you know i'd never seen that term for them i agree that the fbi at least at the high levels of fbi
they are engaged in treason against america and i agree that the doj under obama was in many ways
engage in treason and multiple felony crimes to designate them enemy combatants that seems to be
a whole different level of discussion that maybe you know maybe we could entertain that discussion
but for now i think we all agree there's a lot of people that need to go to prison
and they're still in the fbi and the doj this is mike adams here filling in at info wars fourth
hour for today stay with us we'll be right back after this break with more of your calls
health care reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the health care system has become a
challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health
share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded
people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now
by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org bacon lovers we ship free try our
amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right
from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use
order today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com heart disease is on the rise
clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation
and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here
how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america
my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how
much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and
body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using this
product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two months supply
today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body
extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com feeling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced
the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut
and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help
keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better
time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on
the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
info wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source
prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity
and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture flora life
as well as micro zx the targets the yeast the mold and the funguses in the gut so this is the time
to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products you get
them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality products
at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out in a month
strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with it's sold out for another month and a
half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber
get yours today info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
we have breaking news here at info wars dot com reporting on the signing of an executive order
by president trump he signed it just minutes ago this executive order ends family separation
at the us-mexico border we're going to roll video from that signing right now and then have
go into discussion and take your calls on let's roll that video executive order
i consider to be a very important executive order it's about keeping families together
while at the same time be sure that we have a very powerful very strong border and border
security will be equal if not greater than previously so we're going to have strong very
strong borders but we're going to keep the families together i didn't like the site
or the feeling of families being separated is a problem that's got on for many years as you know
for many administrations and we're working very hard on immigration it's been just left out in
the call people haven't dealt with it and we are dealing with it so step by step just like we dealt
with north korea we dealt with iran we dealt with an economy that was heading in the wrong direction
we dealt with a lot of different problems this is one that has been done on for many decades
so we're keeping families together and this will solve that problem at the same time we are
keeping a very powerful border and it continues to be a zero tolerance we have zero tolerance
for people to enter our country illegally uh with that i'd ask uh mike pence vice president if
you'd like to say anything well thank you mr president and i think what the president made
clear is we believe it's a false choice between whether we are a country of law in order a country
you're listening to the signing of the executive order that ends separation of children a family
separation at the us-mexico border just signed minutes ago listening to donald trump president
trump and vice president mike pence speaking right now will be uh will continue with us and
we'll have some commentary in a moment but now we'll be able in that prosecution uh in the
immediate days forward to keep families together exactly forward but we are calling on congress
to change the laws in this regard and in a broad range of areas that will secure our borders
and give us strength and confidence that we are once again going to take the steps necessary
to end the crisis of illegal immigration i think the word compassion comes into it but it's still
equally as tough if not tougher and secretary this is just thank you for your leadership sir
we look forward and expect the house to act this week uh we ask them to do their job the laws need
to be changed this is a problem that president after president has dealt with for decades this
one is willing to stand up and fix it we ask congress to do their part thank you sir for your
giving thank you very much quick job the laws need to be changed that's what they're saying now at
the signing of this executive order ending family separation of us Mexico border and here today once
again president trump showing his brilliance by cleaning out obama's policy trash cleaning up the
obama trash and starting the process here of neutralizing the democrats weaponizing of children
against america nobody's taking care of it nobody's had the political courage to take care of it but
we're going to take care of it you're going on been going on for a long time no no the border is
just this stuff but we do want to keep families together this is a problem if you look at uh
some of those horrible scenes from okay very important let me just summarize this because
he's taking questions from reporters they're going to remain tough on the border there's
there's still a zero tolerance policy for criminals in other words if you're a criminal with a child
you're still going to get processed as a criminal this does not excuse criminals who try to exploit
children this executive order does end the separation of families for other non-criminal
processing including asylum at least that's my current understanding this was just five minutes
ago so we're still getting information on what it contains president trump in doing this is taking
away one of the most vicious weapons of the left-wing media which he can't even call media anymore
they are in essence journal terrorist organizations that are trying to overrun america with illegals
at the same time that they enrage the left-wing population to become violent derange frankly
lunatics calling for violence like like fauna did earlier today peter fauna encouraging the
targeting of children of border patrol and ice agents that's insane so president trump neutralizing
this weaponization of children by the radical left once again taking a role of leadership for
america now a question that i have and then we'll go to calls question that i have will a left-wing
judge override this executive order in order to make sure that the crisis continues that's my
question because of course you've got these radical left-wing activist judges all across america and
even in hawaii who have a countermanded previous executive orders from the president in order to
keep a crisis going this crisis is traction for the left-wing media they want screaming babies on
tv they want to bypass rationality they want to bypass policy discussions and replace it with
screaming crying babies and rachel madow crying on q on camera that's what they want so the question
for right now is will a radical left-wing activist judge nullify or attempt to nullify
this executive order by president trump so that they can continue to have a crisis
to scream and cry about because they are cry bullies after all now let's go to calls because
we've got a lot a lot of people chiming in on this alex you've been holding from michigan alex
thank you welcome to the show let's hear your thoughts on this issue thanks mike what an honor
to talk to you sir it's great to have you on go ahead i'm all signed up at real that video i'm
stoked for that uh thank you yeah we're launching we're launching real that video it's in in two
to three weeks it's the alternative to youtube and that's i'm spearheading that project so thanks
for the plug yeah what an honor i mean they're banning all the holistic health channels on youtube
right now because big pharma doesn't want that information going out so it's critical that real
that video i'm talking to all the holistic health channels trying to get them all signed up anyway
all to ms-13 and the border i was going to say that um the deep state really needs that ms-13
infrastructure to run their drug running operations for their black ops and stuff good thanks and and
assassinations of political targets wouldn't you say oh absolutely they they want those um
ms-13 assassins out there ready to to be on call yeah so they they need this pipeline and they know
that ms-13 gang members and drug runners and child traffickers sometimes pretend to be parents it
doesn't mean that all parents are gang members obviously but within that set of parents there is
a subset that are gang members pretending to be parents so what do you think is going to happen
now alex that this executive order has been signed well i'm hoping uh you know the family stay together
that that's a great thing um and i'm hoping that they continue to crack down on the gang
members and i'd love to see a greater wall than the great wall of china built on our border
well i would love to see families stay together who are americans too right and i'm sure you would
as well i i would love to see the state uh stop interfering with families and parenthood in america
i i would like to see the government stopping its medical kidnapping of children and i'm going to
talk about medical kidnapping in the next segment here by the way anything else to add alex um i
think that's it i'm not going to take up any more time than i have to i'm just stoked for real
that video and everybody sign up right now all right uh thank you alex uh appreciate your call
good points i'm going to talk about medical kidnapping when we come back because the government
has kidnapped children from american parents at gunpoint for many many years to force them to
take vaccine injections and chemotherapy that damages their brains their kidneys their livers
their bodies this has been going on in america and there's not a peak about this from the left wing
media don't give a damn want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has
finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table
salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a
wife and kids 39 95 and free economy shipping use discount code gcn and get an extra 10 off your
purchase at bug assault dot com fire your fly swatter get your bug assault today most of you
know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the us what if i told you for just 54
95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've been
helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it check out all
of the success stories at hbxtrack dot com or to order call 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305
hbxtrack dot com don't risk it when you can take charge of it do you realize that when you spread
the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you
that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have
now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading
the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so
there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you
name it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the
videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign
up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to
yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years
ago i set out with top formulators in the us to create the strongest most concentrated over the top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number
one best selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want
to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure
win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's
made in the usa get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha
power today fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily
digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive
there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20
of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help
you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in
tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora
life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel
your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
you're listening to the alex jones show
and we're back here on the alex jones show a day of breaking news at so many levels president
trump has just signed an executive order ending the separation of families at the border but
still maintaining a zero tolerance policy for illegal immigration obviously the solution here
probably is to build a wall right i mean then then you don't have them showing up and you've
got to stop the incentives so that these families in mexico and central america and south america
don't send off their children to the united states through this very dangerous and treacherous journey
during which many children are actually especially female children are are raped or assaulted some
are kidnapped for child trafficking that is cruelty and that is what many parents of these
children are doing to their children by sending them to america and that needs to be stopped as
well so building a wall of course is a big part of this but let me mention something else and then
we'll go to some more calls you know our government has been separating mothers from children
for as long as i can remember and it's done in medical kidnapping medical kidnapping is where
a government agency goes in and kidnaps children takes them from their parents because the parents
don't want to subject those children to toxic medical interventions which include chemotherapy
that causes brain damage by the way it causes cancer as its number one side effect as well as
toxic vaccines so vaccines are being pushed onto children essentially at gunpoint through
government coercion it's happened in maryland it's practically the law now in california it has
happened in many other states as well michigan for example and medical kidnapping is a very real
thing and yet you don't hear anybody in the left wing media talking about the separating of mothers
and children in the united states of us citizens having their children kidnapped by the government
and that takes place every day in america and cps child protective services does some good things
but is radically overzealous in kidnapping children taking them away from parents who dare to question
the ingredients in a vaccine thinking hey maybe i don't want to inject my child with formaldehyde
or mercury or antibiotics and yes or msg all those things are in vaccines according to the cdc
so don't talk to me about all all this screaming and crying about separating mothers from babies
when in our country we have medical kidnapping we have an evil tyrannical medical police state
regime inside our borders that no one is addressing where's our executive order on that you know
where's even the media talking about that and also abortion you know abortion separates more
children from more mothers than any other single medical procedure that we can think of and abortion
is violent and they separate children from mothers using forceps if you think about it's violence
it's medical violence and it is it targets low income african-american neighborhoods and it is
done as a way to depopulate certain segments of our society as margaret sanger the founder of
plan parenthood of course has admitted on the record so you want to talk about separating
babies from parents you got to talk about abortion and medical kidnapping otherwise
you're not fully informed so one more piece of news will go to calls a manhunt is now underway
for a central pennsylvania man accused of threatening to kill president trump and other officials
he is being hunted now by the u.s marshals because of course he's another person who is
being driven to insanity by the journal terrorist left-wing media again you you almost can't even
call them media anymore they are enemies of america cnn recently had to come out and say
we're not enemies of the people well the only reason you have to say that is because frankly
that's the way most people look at you that you are an enemy of this country that you despise
the constitution that you despise our president you despise the electoral process you despise
democracy you insult your audience and you exploit and abuse them cnn new york times
washington post npr you name it they are through all of this fake or exaggerated reporting they
are whipping up a level of intense hatred and anger that is about to spill over into mass
violence on our own streets and that is the media's fault so let's go to calls bob in
oklahoma euro on the air with mike adams here thank you for joining me bob what's on your mind
hi mike how are you i'm all right man i'll tell you what i really appreciate everything you've
been doing and i can't wait to get on to your new youtube eskik uh website as soon as possible
well thank you we're working hard at it what's what's on your mind about the border issue
well the border issues just i mean they're just nuts and i like what trump's done but all he's
really doing is uh basically appeasing the left so they don't have anything to complain about and
i think you're right i think we'll have a judge that comes out and tries to stop it but i also
wanted to talk about your medical thing i mean uh i enjoy everything you put on your website and
it's just awesome stuff and another guy and i know you know him quite well is john racaport who
really has some excellent stuff about the vaccines absolutely and all that stuff so i'd like to get
your here's some more of your comments on that but before i do one thing you got an all alternative
uh website you know for videos coming out my question is is and and i'll hang up and let you
answer this but what about the internet if we have so much technology i've never heard anybody
brought this up why can't we create an alternative internet and just say screw these big companies
well the the internet infrastructure that's a great question i appreciate you calling in with
that the internet infrastructure is digitally neutral it passes packets the http protocol
passes packets and doesn't censor them the censorship is happening at the corporate level
google is censoring twitter is censoring facebook is censoring and more importantly
they're doing it based on your political views they're they're shutting you off not for doing
something illegal but for doing something that they simply disagree with here's a story i brought
in today the stripe payment processor which is a big e-commerce processing company they're now
now cancelling alternative websites freestarter just got canceled for payment processing bitchute
and maker support just got canceled as well so this is the same thing that they're doing to
gun companies where anybody associated with firearms is having their their e-commerce
platform yanked where they can't process payments they're now doing it to these alternative websites
what they're trying to do of course is a form of economic warfare against conservatives and libertarians
and trump supporters it is extreme and and what you just mentioned here is exactly right on
we have to fight back but we don't need an alternative http protocol what we need is frankly
we need minimal government enforcement of a level playing field where you can't censor
somebody's entire business or their channel just because they happen to be conservative
let's take another call but thank you for your call sir sam in texas you're on the air with mike
adam's here at info wars go ahead sam mike i've been watching counter thinking been having a lot
of fun very informative a special thank you about the bio sludge the human waste that's been putting
on farm fields and in landfills that's terrible stuff and it's all over it gets in the dust in
the air yeah i think how many children are poisoned by that and yet we don't hear anything from the
media about that do we that's really my point about what's going on the border this is the
hugest switch and role reversal that i've seen in the media maybe since trump's been in it reminds
me of the end scene in uh the brave new world where in the middle of a political rally the
government switches their ally for their enemy and they say no we're not at war with eurasia we're
what war with east asia we've always been at war with east asia right it's it's mind control
yeah it's it's mind control propaganda it's social behavioral engineering at every level
they're not the media anymore they are they're mind controlling a puppet class of obedient conformists
who are now filled with seething hatred and anger and lashing out against the only people trying to
save this country and that's people like you and me sam the tsa the party of the dhs the party of
all of these huge bureaucracies of fema has been the democrats it's been clinton will even put the
bushes in that category but they're the ones that built all this i absolutely get it into the
separation of families with uh medical decisions that parents we gotta we gotta go to break sam
sorry to interrupt we gotta go to break but thank you for your call excellent points stay with us
we'll be right back after this break on info wars nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your
gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic
and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store
dot com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for
children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal
silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple eight two five three three one three
nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and
they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
guaranteeing your food independence is a crucial part of prepping between debt crisis natural
disasters or even simple power outages having a supply of storable meals is crucial with info
wars life select storable food you can make sure you and your family are ready for any emergency
with drinks snacks and meals in amounts ranging from 72 hours to a full year there's no better
place to look for healthy easy and incredible meals including meals such as traveler stew
home style potato soup and a variety of other meals for breakfast lunch and dinner info wars
life select storable food will help you eat comfortably in a time of need they even work great
for camping simply pack a 72 hour kit to go and you have easy to cook and transport food for you
and your loved ones trip don't be caught surprised by an emergency make sure you're stocked up today
with all the food you need for an affordable price with info wars life select storable foods
patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding
i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and prison
planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my dial up into
that and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and followed
all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival shield and
since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality the caveman the real red pill micro zx body it's
all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much it's like
you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the
more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted to say
that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there 1776 worldwide
you're listening to the alex jones show
i can imagine a future debate on the senate floor about immigration policy or anything
where you have ran paul standing there giving an eloquent explanation point by point logic
and reason and history and that's the conservative argument and then for the democrats you have a
democrat senator just hold up a screaming baby who cries and sobs on camera and just says
this is my argument because that's what we're dealing with in america today
there's no rationality behind it it's just screaming babies and crying babies sometimes
photos taken completely out of context it's like democrat journalists are scouring the planet
trying to find photos of of babies behind chain link fences even if it's in their own backyard
to say oh my god they're in prison it's a holocaust it's a concentration camp it's insane that is
not what's happening and frankly we don't treat our own citizens in many cases as well as some of
these refugees are being treated or illegal aliens or undocumented immigrants or whatever
term you want to use the fact is that we've got parents who are not doing a good job of parenting
in america and we need to help our own country get a hold of raising good kids and healthy kids
and kids who have a real education and not just indoctrination in the public schools i mean i
could go on but we are on the verge of losing our our entire country where it's breaking down
into idiocracy frankly remember that court scene and idiocracy where it was just like
screaming theatrics and you couldn't even invoke logic and reason that's where we are now in america
it has become idiocracy thanks to the radical left let's let's continue taking calls i think the
name is beto in in iowa or beto uh you're on the air i'm sorry about your name you're on the air
with mike here what's on your mind appreciate you taking my call as a latino you're in america and
coming from seardown water makes mexico and my family as well it's really sad to see um
us being used as a political football by the left that doesn't give you know anything doesn't care
about us um and for us that came over here legally we have this frustration and with the people that
are coming in here illegally because what makes them better than than us that came here legally you
know yeah that's what they're trying to do it's trying to put they're trying to put us they're
trying to have us in fight with each other amongst the latino community and they are definitely scared
from people like definitely scared of people like me that are aware of their manipulation because my
family voted for trump i mean people are sort of shocked so let me let me just confirm so you
you immigrated to america legally through the legal process correct yeah and yes it takes a long
time but yes you have to have patience you know you have to wait for god's plan i know my my wife
is a legal immigrant we went through the process it took us six years i know exactly what you're
talking about so what you're saying is that now you are being pitted against those who refuse to
follow the law who want to cut in line so to speak and bypass the process and it's it's almost like
if i'm hearing you correctly they're splitting the latino community apart inside america is that
accurate well just like they do with the black community look what they did the cognate now
they're sacrificing they're going to sacrifice any uh any person that's in there that's not in their
race group think they're going to sacrifice this and they're going to try to you know demonize this
but they're not going to do that especially with the internet and uh you know if everyone wants to
start pointing fingers at the people that we should be mad at well bush obama um we should
point the uh chief of staff back in march that gave you know who was getting giving bad advice to
donald trump back in march of last year and it's and again i think that's just my just wanted to
throw that out there for people that well to get mad at somebody i think those are the ones that
need to be um pointed at you're right vato thank thank you for your call you're absolutely right
this has been an ongoing problem as i said today trump has begun the process by signing this executive
order the process of cleaning up obama's trash policies obama left a lot of trash behind and he
left behind a lot of deep state agents to try to sabotage the trump administration now trump has to
start cleaning this up obviously this problem has to ultimately get solved by congress we need a law
that goes through the legislative process that is signed by the president that frankly builds a wall
i mean if you build a wall you don't need to separate families you just turn them away it's
like hey people you want to come to america follow the rules stand in line fill out the forms have
a background check to make sure you're not a felon or a child trafficker from some other country
follow the rules like the rest of us did like my wife did and like our caller did as well let's
take another call fernando in arizona you're on the air with mike adams here thank you for your
call go ahead hey good afternoon the health ranger and all the info orders out there awesome nice to
have you on thanks pleasure to be on um so with like with the previous caller betha said um
yeah it took my parents like 10 years to actually become citizens and what a lot of people lose out
on is the quote unquote american way of life and especially the town that i'm from you know i was
like a latchkey kid 2.0 where you know my parents had to come over here and so our family was broken
up through through the limited jobs that they were able to get and uh things like that but
um the oh there's a lot of like disinformation on the mexican side too where they tell them
that there's all these jobs and everything like that here oh yeah exactly but you see obama also
contributed to that remember when he was president he he rolled out the red carpets he said load them
up on a train and bring them in and then and then he paid for buses to relocate these you know
truly illegal immigrants at that point to relocate them to cities all across america
and i i'm with you fernando we welcome immigration when it's done through a legal process and where
we get to choose as a country a merit based system of deciding who we wish to invite in it's like
you have a house you don't just open your door and say everybody walk in off the street everybody
you get to pick and choose who comes into your house right right of course well that's that's
the way it should be at a at a national level thank you for your call fernando i yeah go ahead um
so one of the things that i wanted to bring up to you guys is the the threat that there might
actually be a socialist president in mexico so a lot of people are kind of fleeing from that too
oh wow yeah so i think i believe the name is lopez sobrador well people are fleeing venezuela
right now people are fleeing they're trying to flee north korea if they can escape without getting
shot and killed i mean look the one reason people want to come to america is because
there is still a defense of the constitution here there's still a defense of individual liberty
and especially places like texas where you can still arm yourself in self-defense we respect
the second amendment in this state and that's why we don't have mass murders and rapes and mass
shootings like you see taken place in other gun controlled states but thank you for your call
again fernando let's go to westley in oregon because i really like to get a variety of calls
and opinions uh westley uh you got anything uh on this or are you in line with what everybody
else has said so far oh no no like i'm not good to talk to you good to talk to you too sir
what what's on your mind oh man is he gone i dropped okay uh sorry maybe he probably just
got excited and hit the hit the phone button uh trisha in virginia trisha you are on the air
trisha thank you for calling what's on your mind thank you my thank you uh oh trisha got dropped too
okay are we having problem with problems with the system i apologize to trisha and the previous
caller let's try jordan in wisconsin just see if that goes through uh jordan you're on the air
can you hear me oh yeah okay go for i apologize to the previous callers but go ahead jordan hi uh
you've heard about everything happening in uh germany with the migrants and all the
like mass rapes and whatnot do you think that could happen like over here with all the like
considering the government took away all their guns and then invite all his terrorists into
getting to fund themselves do you think anything like could happen here with all that well if i'm
hearing your comments correctly let's be clear the democrats want to overrun america they want a
flood of non-americans to come in and they want to take away americans guns i mean this is this is
not a conspiracy this is what they are openly calling for they want open borders they want to
flood the country they want to bring in people who will vote democrat this is their plan they
they can't win through reason they can't convince americans to vote for democrats in enough numbers
so they have to bring in people who will do it because they're uninformed they're illiterate
they're uneducated they have criminal backgrounds you know they violate the laws that's that's a
democrat party a bunch of lawless you know technically illiterate people at many levels so
i mean does that answer your question yeah sort of i just i mean seeing that'll happen over in
europe and just everyone just get overran and they're not even able to defend themselves
because their government completely took away the ability to do so just seeing that's kind of like
you know it's a shame because uh and you know she's got in the back of your head do you think
well that can happen to us well it it it is happening to us jordan you're you're right on target
and i appreciate your call and sorry to cut you off but we're going to be closing out this segment
and this hour of the show but look bottom line folks we are under attack america is being invaded
right now and the invaders are using screaming babies as their only argument to try to take down
our country nullify our election take away our guns and destroy the individual liberties
that we and our founding fathers and mothers have fought for for over 240 years it's incredible
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the real red pill plus is an all new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your
heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill has quickly become one of our fellow info warriors favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life
has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle
available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the
bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral
cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins
with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a
powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy
and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com you're listening to the alex jones show
