Crashing through the lies and disinformation it's Alex Jones on the GCN radio network
History is unfolding in front of all of us it is Sunday the 8th day of July 2018
as we are every Sunday live from 4 to 6 p.m. we are here and I am your host and
I'm very honored to be here I tend to try to open the phones up for at least an
hour and a half of the two-hour broadcast today because we're overwhelmed
with news and and I don't know where to start but I want to get your take on it
you know I'm so captivated by the mind situation down that cave in Thailand
where they've got the divers going down trying to save the young people there
with their coach they've gotten now four out now it's nine out well that just
broke minutes ago and look at a few more to get out including their their
football coach so that's certainly certainly a very very positive thing but
just the way it illustrates if a little girl or little boy is stuck down a well
or miners are stuck in a mine collapse or if people are captured underground
hemmed in by rising water from floods our humanity comes out and we root for
them and we project on to them that they are us but it's little babies getting
aborted or it's euthanizing old people or its cancer rates going up because a
glyphosate is like so what about humanity you know it gets the highway
moving there's too many people but this whole situation with the mine cave-ins
we've seen and the gas explosions we've seen and little girls little boys
falling down wells and now the situation the cave this illustrates to
everybody the value of human life and that we're all in this together and so
they've already had one diver die they've got other divers going down two at a
time trying to get each child out who's got to then swim out in scuba gear in a
cave full of mud and everything else out the surface and I was just reading
about it today I mean I've been watching it the last four or five days but I
was actually really doing a deep dive no pun intended into what was now
currently happening and it just made my head spin because they are way way way
way down there and experienced military divers are having big problems ones
already died and so that's why they tried to abandon that process when one
diver died trying to get down to him and said well let's just wait but they can't
because the another monsoon's hit another big rain as they call the Pacific
a monsoon turd floaters what we call in Texas so you have this huge storm
happening and the water is going back up and so they're having to send people
down into this cave reportedly almost a mile in to then try to get these people
out it is just crazy and they're inside a big cavern up on the top of a pinnacle
of a rock you've been inside in the big caverns around the US mammoth cave or
Earl's bad caverns or others there's a huge amphitheater style 10-story tall
huge caverns and you can see those big pinnacles those big rocks up at the top
they are perched up there with the water rising beyond some Hollywood movie so you
see what all that's happening it makes you think about our own planet and where
we are and the fact that humanity is all in this together and that valuing human
life is certainly where it's all at so we're gonna be looking at all that today
the mainstream media has had a big heyday they have come out and said
Jones said it was the end of the world on Wednesday but it didn't end because I
said the Democrats were calling for civil war they've been escalating their
soft civil war and I see that as a demarcation line of when they plan
throughout the summer to ramp things up that's what I said was very clear but
they use the fact that I said March July 4th is when they're gonna attempt to
launch this and then when the hoax that they pushed didn't didn't appear they
say I'm discredited it's it's it's simply amazing even though attacks against
conservatives libertarians and Christians went into overdrive as you
know the last four days will chronicle all of that straight ahead nourish a
probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars
life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with
our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and
organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that
ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food
absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting
edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically
studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the
good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head
to info wars life calm or call 1-888-253-3139
it's also what happens when you listen to the radio host Alex Jones
move bitch get out the way we pledge allegiance to one flag and that flag is the
American flag info wars helped to know the rumor that President Obama is an
ISIS supporter it's been a cozy relationship from the beginning I will
not let you down you'll be very very impressed I hope and I think we'll be
speaking a lot this means the Donald Trump will be the 45th president of the
United States waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones well Hillary is looking
to run again in 2020 we're gonna be looking at that Trump is set to
announce a Supreme Court pick very very quickly ahead of the midterms we've got
the cave in and the whole situation with the floods in Thailand and what's
unfolding there and China's saying they're basically already at war with the
US it's all coming up but first Trump's gotten Mueller in his sights for covering
up 9-11 here's a breakdown of it all
in the case of the FBI's involvement immediately post 9-11 there were these
charter flights by Saudi Royals and members of the bin Laden family that
left places like Las Vegas where they were holed up in some of their hotels
waiting for the dust to settle there are these a playing load literally of
Saudis and other folks associated with the bin Laden family that left on this
charter flight well as someone who's actually done legal travel or debriefings
and even talking to folks who have been refugees or emigres from other
countries those Saudis are precisely the sort of people who should have been
debriefed at length by the FBI and frankly other intelligence services as
well to build that network and to outline who knew who and what the
associations were absolutely critical immediately fire following 9-11 and so
was that done the answer is no and so this kid glove treatment was given and
I hang that directly around the neck of mr. Mueller that's a really a disgraceful
failure immediately after 9-11 because we know that these people had contacts
and friends or friends and those sorts of things it all should have been exploited
and it wasn't the government wants to be in charge I mean when Reagan said we're
a country with a government I think we're now a government with a country and
that's when all of the things that are happening are only tightening that
control on the people they're gonna manipulate them and and keep as long as
they can keep them uninformed and nobody realizes what's going on or they
don't see the threat if they say you have nothing if you've done nothing wrong
you have nothing to hide first of all that's a great quote from Joseph
Gerbils and secondly that's totally irrelevant if we had had this program in
place at the time we would have been able to identify that particular telephone
number in San Diego I'm almost out of time I understand but I ask indulgence
just to finish because it's a critical point as to why we have this program and
how important it is all right if we had the telephone number from Yemen we
would have matched it up to that telephone number in San Diego got
further legal process identified Al Mithar one last point the 9-11
Commission itself indicated that investigations or interrogations of
Al Mithar once he was identified could have yielded event evidence of
connections to other participants participants in 9-11 plot the
simple fact of their detention could have derailed the plan in any case the
opportunity was not there well if we had had this program that opportunity would
have been there who is special counsel Robert Mueller is he the
upstanding career law enforcement officers the establishment would lead you
to believe or is Robert Mueller a dirty fix it man for the corrupt
authoritarians lurking behind the DC power structure after well over a year
now of enduring the tainting of the executive office with a DNC funded
bogus investigation President Trump is revisiting concerns he made about 9-11
during his candidacy obviously the war in Iraq was a big fat mistake all right
now you can take it anywhere you want and it took jet it took Jeb Bush if you
remember at the beginning of his announcement when he announced the
president took him five days he went back it was the mistake it wasn't a
mistake took him five days before his people told him what to say and he
ultimately said it was a mistake all to go world trade center came down the
brother brother my mother that's not keeping a lottery when I was born 63
years ago looked up and I saw my mom mom my mom is the strongest woman I know
she's just a lot of Trump wants a deep state to know that the gloves are off
he's going to war he was always gonna release this later on the anyways
Bush's Clintons criminal elements the CIA all of you this is just the beginning
with Mueller's cover-up this is the piece of string on the sweater that pulls
the whole sweater apart it's beginning it was Mueller that signed off on
hindering the investigations launched by the families of victims of 9-11 huge
body of evidence that Saudi government officials prepared for the hijackers
arrival helped them got them money English lessons right you know I helped
them and provided the aid they need more surveillance they protected impossible
according to the FBI agents were working the case for the terrorists to
succeed and president Bush and director Mueller instead of my life from looking at
letting the FBI go public the whole story yeah quashed it interrogations were
shut down duty documents have been kept secret and the reason we are here and
our plea mother and we split in Epstein as a black male over the Trump is to
declassify the documents people need to know more about mr. Mueller he is not
the white knight that Lindsey Graham and others in the mainstream media have a
portrait his role during and after the 9-11 matter needs to be examined it was
Mueller that acted as a counter crime boss during the Whitey Bulger court
drama and Mueller just like Whitey Bulger could kill whoever he wanted killed
reportedly over 100 people run mafia operations in Boston assassinate members
of other mafias the FBI wanted taken out the FBI was operating as a gang in
Boston Robert Fitzpatrick is seen here leaving federal court this afternoon
after changing his plea to guilty on a 12 count indictment for perjury and
obstruction of justice the former assistant special agent in charge of the
FBI's Boston office who was in charge of the organized crime program testified
for the defense three years ago in the trial of James Whitey Bulger at the
time Fitzpatrick made at least six false claims on the witness stand it was
Mueller that allowed Pito Jeffrey Epstein to serve minimum sentencing for
overseeing a sex exploitation ring of underage females that should have
easily implicated several high-profile individuals instead the FBI worked to
deal with Epstein as an informant and then buried the investigation and wouldn't
it be interesting if it's none other than Mueller now conjuring up dirt on one
of his toughest critics Ohio Congressman Jim Jordan news story from NBC news
comm about some allegations involving Congressman Jim Jordan of Ohio three
former wrestlers at Ohio State University are accusing him of turning a
blind eye to sexual abuse when he was a coach at the school just that he turned
a blind eye to sexual abuse while working as a wrestling coach at Ohio
State University you've seen the reports in recent days your reaction first to
all of this it's false I mean I never saw never heard of never was told about
any type of abuse John Baum reporting for info words dot com meanwhile Mueller
ran the aircraft with kidnapped children you know if I tried to sit here and
tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in Fuller's life it take hours
Michael ZX plus it now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in
probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the
real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's
the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body then it's got all the
minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it our latest
product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four
to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you
can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver
and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering
info or store.com and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but
it's other people that aren't awake it's so essential to spread the word again
thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution
years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you
combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the
environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to
help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for
that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your
body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in
the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list
of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal d'arco bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time
as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and
improved micro zx plus today at info wars life.com that's info wars life.com
one of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains
of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting
their techniques based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and
perfect conditions we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune
support and wake up America patriot blend coffee ancient Mayan knowledge is
paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest
coffee bean carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big
agricultural productions patriot blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with
great depth to give you just what you need in the morning you can even choose
to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused with a
powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina it's time to take
care of your morning routine get a bag of patriot blend coffee to support the
show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the
lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products that's what we're
bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the
real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse
pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included
a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill to quickly become one of our
federal info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend
inside including green tea extract your remontae leaf extract and more you can
get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way it's
got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost at
it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
killing yourself to live
that's globalism that's what it's all about anti-human anti-prosperity
anti-future absolutely draconian and dystopic and we oppose it all right
coming up is Hillary Clinton secretly planning to run in 2020 that's just two
years away we're gonna look at that coming up announcement of Trump Supreme
Court choice at nears we're gonna be looking at that inside Pompeo's fraught
in North Korea visit lifelong Democrat lawmaker vows to support Trump only
Republicans until Dems return to sanity and honesty the whole hashtag just walk
away movement gained steam and I believe it's a real movement because I see it on
the ground where Democrats come up to me black white Hispanic old young Asian you
name it and they say I used to be a Democrat but I can see the corruption I
could see the anti-Americanism I can see the anti-free speech these people are
crazy I'm a Republican now well I was ever a Republican or Democrat but we've
taken over the Republican Party at least partially kick the blue bloods out
but the Democrats you got something even worse so yes we're trying to make
America great again right now and it's very very very exciting now that said we
just tuned in I played a compilation of the news reports about the incredible
corruption of the special counsel appointed by the president mr. Rosenstein
the president doesn't matter we elected the real president's Rosenstein and then
his puppet that follows his orders Jeff Sessions and so they're coming out
saying all this dirt's coming out all this proof of Russia gay all this
corruption blah blah blah of course none of it's ever there meanwhile we have
them all caught red-handed in their own texts their own messages their own
payments Hillary giving McCabe's wife a half million wives of husbands at the
FBI craig the fake piss gate dossier getting millions it is incredible and
you've got Giuliani and others coming out saying that Mueller is leading the most
corrupt investigation he's ever seen well there might have been corrupt
investigations before but this is the most transparent the most out the open
corruption because what do they think's gonna happen anybody who can rub two
brain cells together knows this is political and knows it's a fraud and
knows that Trump's not in bed with the Russians and his pro-america so where
do they go after this we'll talk about it but first here's a clip the reality is
that there are biases that have to be explored surrounding Mueller how you how
you could end up hiring a group of people that are as as prejudiced and
biased as this group in their record at least is extraordinary and then how you
can expect us to just walk up our kind of like a lamb going to the slaughter
we wouldn't be lawyers if we were doing he was he George he wants to testify he
believes like to believe that anymore miss mayor well it is hard to believe
given all the things that have been shown about how tainted this investigation
is this is the most corrupt investigation I have ever seen that the
just problem is allowing to go forward I've never seen an investigation with
texts from FBI agents now seven of them that have such extraordinary bias against
the person's predated Robert Mueller well that's but that's the investigation he
inherited with a lot of the testimony that he inherited and then he went ahead
and didn't do anything to purge himself of that he fired him he fired him after
somebody else found out well how about looking at the text of all of his people
does his number two guys number three guys number four guy have similar texts
in which they're talking about much they hate Trump I don't know and you've got
Stefanophilus the operative of the Clintons sitting there acting like he's
all impartial Robert Mueller and that whole operation continued on what the
Justice Department had set up and they were continuing what had been set up to
stop Trump during the campaign to cover their ass because now their job was two
fold not just try to keep Trump from getting an office or keep from getting
elected before that or kick Trump out of office later it was cover up spy gate
and make spy gate Russia gate that they had thought that Hillary would win and
that they could then try to cover that up by a new investigation used as a
smoke screen so here's Rudy Giuliani the president's lawyer breaking that down
saying Mueller needs to provide factual basis to interview the president I've
told you for over a year he shouldn't talk to Mueller he shouldn't talk to any
of these crooks they're jokes he could fire all of them it's the executive
branch but they created this idea in the media they oh you don't follow Mueller
he's our president we elected him and the president's probably intelligently
just left him there letting him rot but they get more and more and more desperate
so here's the president's lawyer well you had said that the 4th of July was
basically a deadline of sorts for you to determine whether or not you would
recommend President Trump sit down with Robert Mueller it is now past the 4th
of July where do we stand well I think we're pretty much decided where we are
and we await the decision of the independent counsel we we would not
recommend an interview for the president unless they can satisfy us that
there's some some a basis for this investigation it's our it's our firm
beliefs and we think nothing contradicts this the president did nothing wrong and
all the leaking that's gone on there's been no leak of any fact that says the
president conspired with anybody in Russia I know from having been on the
campaign that there was no contact with Russians no discussion with Russians so
we've got to see something I mean something started this investigation I
don't just investigate my next-door neighbor because I think he may be
committing the crime I've got it in order to get an investigation going I've
got to give the police of the FBI some kind of probable cause and there isn't
any and when we've asked him for it going back to John Dowd yeah they've
given us nothing and I think you can see John's opinion now is very much like
ours that the president shouldn't be interviewed because John is unfortunately
come to the conclusion what that this is a witch hunt and an attempt to trap him
in perjury we just had to I just when I previewed our introduced our segment we
had the the Senate Intelligence Committee they've already they come out
with their first conclusion they've got more to come when it comes to collusion
they haven't made a determine on on the collusion aspect of things but it's a
fact in their minds that Russia interfered and attempted to help the
president how is that not a compelling enough reason for mr. Mueller to want
to question the president well because there's no evidence that links the
president to that that's I mean that's a heck of a thing to people can have all
kinds of stuff right there you've got a hundred and seventy plus countries during
any big campaign there's all sorts of companies and bots and internet companies
you can hire do stuff per not any percent of the bots out of Russia or for
Hillary so again that's a red herring too but you've got Chuck Todd the
Democratic Party operative the butt boy of Obama up there going well Mueller says
this well Mueller said that they don't like the election of Trump these people
sold us out to Russia with uranium one and communist China Trump's America first
and you can see the country coming back and that's the big problem they've got
is the country's coming back people know the truth and that's why they're so
angry that's why they're so upset that's why they don't know what to do because
these are the anti-americans they're the guys on tape saying flyover country we
hate gun owners we hate Christians all this crap and all these Democratic
party people they got running for office then like are running against white
people that it's the opposite of Martin Luther King it's incredible so wow okay
when we come back China you know a billion quarter million people they say
they're already at war with the US and they love Hillary they love Chuck Todd
and they hate you this 4th of July is special everybody can see it they can
feel it the globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their
tyranny and America yet again is at the heart of the resistance the globalist
that's why this 4th of July I'm asking all of our great supporters to think
about info wars now more than ever and what would the world be like if info
wars wasn't there resisting the globalist what would have happened if you
hadn't supported info wars we would not be having the victories we have today so
yes a lot of good things are happening but the enemy is striking back so please
think about info wars and funding our operation while you get great products
at the same time on the 4th of July that's so historic we have record sales
going on right now free shipping on hundreds of different items more than
20 items are 50% off like brain force plus x2 is 40% off knockout sleep aid
1776 silver bullets 995 colletal silver and free shipping you can't beat that
this 4th of July special and our sales are special to match it info wars store
calm do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars calm when you
spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary
and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the
threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more
important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash news
letter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I
ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the
videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare
minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning we've
taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our
own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing Z
shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the USA it's filled
with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 when this is the
formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can
possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the
future of this country in the world that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of America to
reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as
you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the
world now it's time to change our bodies with z-field info wars life dot com info
wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine introducing
pollen block we have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus
passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the 1960s
researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses they began
studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the
fruit of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an
antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and
inflammatory responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
head to info worse life com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable
tablets you're listening to the alex jones show
we are on the march the empire is on the run alex jones and the gcm radio
network
We are drugged out.
We are following other people's opinions.
We are controlled by the media.
Today it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us.
It is a choice.
Just like what I said, slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity
is doing the same thing, expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying, I hate you, I hate you,
you, you, you, you, you, you.
How are we gonna get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love?
Why don't we just try love?
We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy motherf***ers
to change something.
Steve Jobs is crazy.
Now we all know Steve Jobs phones.
They say Trump's crazy.
They say I'm crazy.
But I'm here to show love.
It's a bigger plan.
And I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.
It's Alex Jones.
For me, it's totally insane that Hillary Clinton
is still sending out emails to her constituents,
to her zombie-like supporters,
implying that she's the leader of the Democratic Party
and that she might even run coming up in about the next year
because that's when the campaign starts.
It's about two years out, year and a half out,
that she might even run for president against Trump again.
But then I pull back and I go, wait a minute,
she ran before when she'd had a brain tumor,
when she'd been in the hospital for a year,
when she was having convulsions all the time.
You were told by the Secret Service at the RNC,
just follow her.
She's got a black ambulance.
She's having convulsions every 45 minutes
when she's not under drugs.
They gotta take her off the drugs so she can even talk.
But then because she's off the drugs
that suppress your neurons,
that suppress brain activity, she then has the convulsions.
And she either take a bunch of pills
or drink a bottle of whiskey and not have convulsions,
but then she's not on.
So to be on, she's got a get sober.
Imagine the hell of that.
She gets sober a few hours a day.
They roll her out.
They've got to have emergency tents all around her.
We caught her, Millie Weaver caught her,
getting rushed into a emergency tent two weeks before
she collapsed in New York.
And you look at her emails, the New York Post reports on it.
She's telling her constituent,
she's the leader of the Democratic Party.
I guess a close second, it's Maxine Waters and
that lunatic Nancy Pelosi and nothing against women.
I'd love to have a woman president,
but she's got to be pro-America, pro-free market,
not these crazy, entitled, never had a free market job,
run around, try to create culture war, sex war, race war.
Good God.
It just boggles the mind.
But you say, well, that's crazy.
She'd never run.
Everybody hates her.
She's been rejected.
She was co-governor in Arkansas.
She was co-president with Bill Clinton for eight years.
Under Obama, they admitted that she was basically
co-president, running the State Department.
That's just as important as the presidency itself,
if the president isn't involved.
So, she was in four terms.
You ever heard of anybody, not even Roosevelt.
Well, he died at the beginning of his fourth term.
Or was it the end of his third, I forget.
Can we look that up?
How many terms did Roosevelt serve?
I think he died at the end of the third,
but he'd won a fourth.
So, Hillary has served more terms as deputy president
or co-presidents, the word, even Washington Post admits it.
Look at that.
So, it just never ends.
And you said to yourself, this crazy woman,
this corrupt person that her own party doesn't like,
it doesn't matter, she still runs it.
She's got that foundation with the billions of dollars
she's milked.
There it is, seeing and reporting another run.
Hillary Clinton tries again.
God, we are going to take back the country.
We love Hillary Clinton.
This woman in tapes that have been linked,
that have been leaked out, hates America.
She got to ask herself, where is the end of this?
I'm going to open the phones up to talk about this
and other big issues.
The toll-free number to join us on any issue you want to discuss,
but I just want you to be first-time callers.
Please be honest about that and have a good telephone.
I want to talk to you.
I really love you to call 877-789-ALLAX, 877-789-2539.
877-789-2539.
And we'll talk about that.
We'll talk about the Democrats announcing Civil War
and then Rob Reiner, Michael Moore, Bill Maher,
all of them, and then I go,
oh, look, they say we're in a Civil War.
You crazy person.
There's no Civil War.
You crazy right-wing son of a bastard.
Okay, we're going to discuss that.
We're going to discuss all of it at 877-789-2539.
But I know we're taking control of our government again.
I know we're taking control of our republic again.
And that's what's exciting to me.
Now, this subject is really big.
And I don't say this to be dramatic
because I know the White House and the president
are quietly trying to fix this
because they don't want to rattle confidence
and they don't want to sound too extreme
because reality is so extreme.
But in my own concern,
I've reached out to some folks and said,
should I say all this because it's what I really think,
but I don't want to, like, rattle the confidence in the country
and I don't hold back on stuff
and I don't want to really go with my hardcore info.
And I've been told by a lot of folks, they go,
no, you're dead on.
Fire at will.
And people say, oh, my God, you're this government shill.
You've always been against the government
because our government was run by foreign banks.
We see a beachhead, our government partially controlled
by American patriots now.
So I'm proud to say that I'm reaching out to smart people
and trying to coordinate somehow.
Hell, you know, the Democrats are coordinating.
And I've said, listen, I can see the office
of personal management hack, our entire government database.
All our operatives overseas domestically, their families,
our codes, our shields, everything.
Yeah, you're right, it was done on purpose.
I see the industrial cell and everything,
which they admit some purpose.
Yeah, you're right.
I see it all.
What do we do to turn this around?
And the answer I get back is, well, what do you think we do?
I mean, I think we have to admit how far we've slid.
And I think it's really the Achilles heel of the globalist
that if we just detail how we got infiltrated
and what happened and turn it around,
people will listen and take action.
Because it's the truth.
And, you know, I'm not Machiavelli.
Man, I can see in the Machiavelli systems,
but I'm a straight shooter.
I've always found that's what feels good in my gut.
It's what works.
It's just who I am.
You know, they think I'm a schmuck because I'm a straight shooter.
You know what?
Straight shooting is the fourth, fifth dimensional chess.
Everybody talks about it.
Everybody just keeps thinking being a BSer works.
Only when you've got an honorable society
that trusts a few traders and doesn't know they're against them.
Just because cancer spreads through the body doesn't mean it's dominant.
Just because you guys cheat doesn't mean like,
oh, we must all do that.
That's the, no, that's how you collapse a civilization.
It's how you collapse the planet.
So when we come back,
I'm gonna just, I mean, I'm gonna lay out the facts here.
It's as best as I can tell you about what we face,
who our enemies are and what we're up against.
And it's bad.
I mean, we are like way behind, actually.
The fact that you think Trump's in there and everything.
And the way everybody's against Trump.
Who are these followers?
God, they ought to be praying Trump succeeds.
They're just such pathetic followers, though.
And it's not the followers fault that they did this.
It's our fault as leaders that we didn't see the problem in face.
We'll be right back. Stay with us.
What we learned was that there was, in fact,
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain
can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infostore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infostore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are.
We're coming back against it so we need your support.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Well, Hillary Clinton is sending out feelers to her supporters
via email, the New York Post is reporting it,
considering and testing a 2020 run.
Well, of course she is.
Even if she doesn't run, she wants to keep getting those campaign contributions,
including money into her corrupt money laundering operation known as her foundation.
So it's totally sick and just shows how delusional
and disconnected from reality the establishment is.
But if we buy into their hoax, well, then it's our fault, isn't it?
We're going to start the next hour hearing about ten minutes
and go to already loaded phone lines.
I may even get to some during this segment,
but if you just joined us,
we're back under the Clintons,
how they were selling out our missile secrets
for our intercontinental ballistic missiles to communist China.
And I remember myself and Washington Times writers and others,
Drudge, you name it, were reporting on the Clintons with communist
Chinese generals in the White House and all of it,
and the sellout by Laurel Hughes to them with Merve technology.
That's the reentry device.
It's one thing to put a missile up into orbit.
Another thing to get it going is trajectory over from China over the North Pole to the U.S.
But it's another thing to get it to come back into the atmosphere
and have the nose cone pop open and have a dozen dummy warheads
and maybe a dozen other real warheads
so that when they try to shoot those down, they don't get them all.
That's multiple reentry device, Merve technology.
So from the boost, the first stage boost,
second stage boost, reentry to Merve technology,
the Clintonistas gave them everything,
like they gave them our jobs, our businesses, our industry,
our security codes, the Panama Canal, all the major deepwater ports.
Hillary is a globalist operative put in there to do that.
And then the media spun it.
Are attacks on China anti-Asian?
No, it's China under Mao that killed 84 million of their own people,
according to the Chinese Communist CIA says 65 million.
It's their own system that sells political dissidents organs.
So when you talk about a billion, 500 million people,
genetically the same but oppressed by the communist elite,
there's not the racism there.
There's the classism of the party where there is no class.
That's unintended under communism.
And so they're doing all this and the Communist Chinese come out in Bloomberg
and the Sunday Express, and I've got the articles right here.
Let's do a camera shot of that saying we're already at war with the United States.
We're already economically, you read the leaked memos that the PLA put out on purpose.
And they say we've already got their industry.
We've already got the rare earth minerals, 98%.
We already got our military under these companies as front people in all these nations.
We're ready to cut the U.S. off economically.
We're ready to foment economic warfare and cultural warfare in South America.
We're ready to bring the U.S. down.
And man, it's in the news that China now controls Hollywood.
China has a $900 billion trade deficit with us.
And Trump says a year ago, give us 50 billion.
Did you show you have some sign?
China, you're investing $24 billion a year in us.
We invest $900 billion in you.
I want to see some Chinese factories in the U.S. show me something.
Over a year ago, he met with them in Marlago.
And the Communist Chinese dictator, he's a dictator.
He wasn't elected by the people.
He said, we're going to war with you.
And we've built all these artificial islands that will invade the South China Sea
and we'll take over all these different areas, right where the Japanese did.
Philippines, you name it.
I mean, this is crazy.
And if you study geopolitical systems, everything done to America since the 70s
by the policy wonks, presidents for mainly puppets until Trump came along,
has been 100% strategically to shell the United States out.
Yeah, there's the Guardian, dictator for life.
They have debates about, well, there's a dictator.
The Politburo and the Central Committee vote a couple hundred people
that are all billionaire communists and then they put the asshole in there.
Excuse me, delete that.
Delete that.
I mean, he's beyond the name I just called him.
He's a mass murderer.
And he's taking China back to where Mao had it.
So you read this, U.S. and China have bigger problems than trade war, Bloomberg,
and it gets into the military war.
China's military reforms to win a war, but you actually read the memo I read last Friday
and it says we're already winning.
We've already encircled them.
We're already controlling their people.
They're all divided.
Americans are weak.
So when you sit there and you see a Democrat or you see a leftist that hates
flyover country or hates Christians or hates Trump,
Trump could be criticized for only asking China.
I hate to use a vulgar analogy, but when they work, you've got to use them.
You know, full metal jacket and you've got Sergeant Hartman talking to him.
And he says, you're the type of guy that'll do something to the other guy,
not even give him a reach around.
I mean, all Trump did was asked for a reach around.
And China said, no man, you're going to give us everything dirtbag Americans
and you're going to get nothing back.
That's Trump's like, okay, there's a 290% tariff on all dairy to Canada
for 30 something years, hundreds of billions.
No.
And Canada so used to us being on our back or on our knees.
They start flipping out going, we got trannies.
We're for gaze.
And Trump goes, okay, great, I understand that.
What about the 200% tariff on dairy?
And then our own media gangs up like Trump's bad.
So let me explain.
I go into a business deal and you tell me, you get everything,
I get nothing, even though I hold all the cards.
And that's the thing about Trump.
He's just not anti-American, psychotically anti-American.
How did we ever get an elite that did this?
Because America had 55% of the wealth in 1952.
Look it up.
And these elites went, my God, we can parlay this in total control,
but to get people to go along with it,
we've got to create an anti-American ideology.
We've got to get people to signal their traders and be anti-Americans.
We can trust them to do this.
Because you've got to really be a scumbag to want to bankrupt
your granddaddy that's a farmer.
Or to want to hurt steel workers in Cleveland.
Or to just have a raging, you know what, to screw America.
But that's what the colleges and the schools,
and it's just all like, wow, we were so close.
And we're probably like a patient that kind of rallies in surgery,
but still dies.
I've had family, I've been there when they rally in a surgery,
and actually they come back for a day and then die right after.
They rally, and then they die.
And I don't want to be a negative person here,
but I'm not a cult member, like Oprah Winfrey,
that's like the secret, just be positive.
I think America's rallying before it's death.
I'm just going to be honest, I think we're going to die.
I think we're going to implode me totally poor,
and I think it's all going to be over.
I think we're evil, we've aborted 50 million babies,
and the average person doesn't want it,
and just God is all about justice.
And I don't think we deserve Trump.
I don't think we deserve to turn the country around.
I don't think we, because there's a thing,
those of us that are self-sufficient will be okay in a total collapse.
It'll be rough, but we'll make it, most of us.
But what about all the scum and all the backstabbers
and all the pedophiles and all the,
no, they are going to kill each other.
So, I'm hoping we fix things.
I'm working for it, but I'm not worried one bit.
Because the type of people that want to suck on Hillary Clinton's
work-covered feet, culturally, and want to do all this,
if you guys don't want this, when we try to fix it,
then have at it, man, have what you want.
Because the Communist Chinese already basically run the universities,
it's in the news, they run Hollywood, we're overrun.
And in the 11th hour, 58th minute, we have some chance to turn it around,
and the average American doesn't rally to do that,
shame on you.
Because that's what we're facing.
I just know this, the Chi Coms won't make it out of this,
and neither will the EU or the Vatican, you're all going to go down.
Oh, that's the little, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I forgot the best part.
I metaphysically know that America is going to go down just like you are.
And so we're going to pull all of you with us,
and they're going to be overthrows of the Communist Chinese,
and maybe that'll be a free country after this.
But I know that when America goes down like the Alamo,
it signifies the defeat of the Chi Coms, and the EU,
and the globalists, and everyone else.
So don't celebrate your victory too long.
Don't celebrate your victory.
Because from hell's gay, I spit at you with my last breath.
I want you to go down, you pedophile devil-worshiping trash
that want to control our will.
Now there's still a chance for humanity to awaken.
Turn this around, but if we're not serious,
I can see where we're going.
Trump will fail, America will fall,
and we'll have global war.
This 4th of July is special.
Everybody can see it, they can feel it.
The globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening
of their tyranny, and America, yet again,
is at the heart of the resistance, the globalists.
That's why this 4th of July, I'm asking all of our great supporters
to think about Info Wars now more than ever,
and what would the world be like if Info Wars
wasn't there resisting the globalists?
What would have happened if you hadn't supported Info Wars?
We would not be having the victories we have today.
So yes, a lot of good things are happening,
but the enemy is striking back, so please,
think about Info Wars and funding our operation
while you get great products at the same time
on this 4th of July that's so historic.
Record sales going on right now,
free shipping on hundreds of different items,
more than 20 items are 50% off, like Rainforest Plus,
X2 is 40% off, Knockout Sleep Aid 1776,
Silver Bullets 9.95 colletal silver,
and free shipping, you can't beat that.
This 4th of July is special, and our sales are special
to match it, InfoWarsStore.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home.
Sometimes supplements don't work fast enough,
that's why InfoWarsLife has created
a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line,
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1oz, 3.5oz, and 16oz bottles,
Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen,
or wherever you go.
The incredible new Purifying Formula is
dentists recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients,
Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins,
and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
I was told what happened with Trump
two years before he ran for office.
When Patriots of the Pentagon were seriously considering
a coup against Obama,
because he gave all our codes to Communist China,
all our personnel to Communist China,
and the Office of Personnel Management Act.
And I was told all this and didn't know if it was true or not.
And years later, even Politico halfway reported what had happened.
Here's what I have to say.
Trump is on a suicide mission.
Now, a suicide mission doesn't mean you die every time.
But you die about 30, 40% of the time.
Like you only go on a couple suicide missions.
And that's what it is to be on a suicide squad.
But you go on a suicide squad because you realize
you're going to lose everything anyways if you don't make it.
Just like the divers in Thailand with the flooded cave
who've already gotten nine of the children out,
and the divers died and others,
they got to go through almost a mile of flooded cave.
And they got to take kids 10, 11, 12 years old in scuba
who aren't certified and take them through that hell.
Think about that.
That's the same thing.
Trump is a suicide squad leader.
That's why he's so confident.
That's why he's so committed.
Our code's gone.
Our secrets all sold out.
Our country deindustrialized.
And then finally, they were going to ban free speech
and start arresting people and enough folks in the government
and in private sector.
And then the general citizenry said, we're not doing this.
We're not almighty. We were to America.
We didn't believe the John Burt society and Ron Paul and Alex Jones
and Barry Goldwater and everybody else.
We didn't believe them.
It sounded so crazy, but we're being given orders to prepare
for gun confiscation and for war against Christians
and war against constitutionalists.
A, we don't want to do that.
B, they're armed to the damn teeth.
These are millions of veterans.
That's a death sentence.
Those are our brothers and sisters, people we know,
we've lost it, volunteer and give blood.
The people that are at the homeless shelters,
but we're being trained to have war with them.
So a group of generals came to Trump as I first told you
three years ago, two and a half years ago,
and now it's been confirmed and said, this is what we're laying out.
We don't know what to do.
What do you think?
You're popular.
We know your background.
We know about your dad.
We know about all you fighting the John Burt society behind the scenes.
What do you think we should do?
He said, let me talk to my wife.
He went and spent three months in Scotland
and decided not to do it.
And then Melania came to him on the last day and she said,
she'd seen what they were doing on the news to people.
She said, you have to do it.
He said, I don't want to put the family through this,
but he said, she said, you have to.
And he understood the challenge.
He said, yeah, I really, I can't not do this.
And we can't not do this.
It's the same thing I deal with every day.
But communist China, ally with the big banks,
has totally sold the country out.
And they engage in every crime you can imagine
and they're trying to sabotage the economy.
And the biggest frustration is looking at the average person
that goes along with this anti-Americanism
and they don't realize they're opening the gates up
to their sure and absolute destruction.
When you look at how communist China has abused their own people,
and you just ask yourself,
is this the way it needs to be?
And I'm telling you, even though we think we're winning
and we see good things coming back to the US,
there's such institutional powers behind this
and such an evil commitment to stop human development.
And human potential that I cannot lie to anybody.
It's not my job.
There's a lot of you.
I think we're neck and neck.
I think it's up in the air whether America and the world makes it.
And you need to understand that.
But to all of you out there that serve evil,
I have no idea how you could be so blind
and so committed to darkness.
I just cannot even begin to understand it.
You're just such traitors to your own family,
your own free will, but you love your father the devil.
So that's why you do it.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack
to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement
with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape
in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
Well, Trump is set to announce his new Supreme Court pick
on the next few days.
We'll be covering it.
China's military admits they're already in a war with the US.
They've got the media and everybody basically.
It's China.
China's the main engine.
It was the plan.
The CFR said it was the Chinese century.
Well, it's not the Chinese century.
It's the globalist communist century feeding off the poor Chinese
to empower their whole operation.
Because Americans, on average, are intuitive and smart and hardworking.
But the Chinese are intuitive, smart and hardworking as well,
but they're enslaved.
So it is definitely a power slave scenario.
I want to go to Antoine Robert Dennis, Robert Patrick George,
Alexander Craig, Tony, Brandon, Eric, and others.
Eric in Michigan.
Eric in the great state of Michigan.
You are back on the air calling in on the show.
Welcome. Go ahead.
You're on the air.
Eric, go ahead.
Brainwashed zombies.
Go ahead and start over.
They didn't get to you right away.
I went to the end of the call, so they missed it.
Let's just start over.
Go ahead.
Alex, I just wanted to kind of touch base on when you brought up,
you know, to call in as a first time caller,
you were going on about Hillary and how she's going to try to possibly run
for 2020 and sending out emails and to her supporters and followers.
And I think it's absolutely ludicrous.
I mean, we all know she's crooked as, you know,
she's more crooked than anybody's front tooth I've ever seen.
She's crooked and the dog's back leg.
You know, but anyway, you know, so we'll see.
You'll see, you know, we'll see how that plays out.
I mean, if she does, it's going to be a failure.
Well, the thing is, she's definitely raising money for it.
She says she's telling her constituents get ready that they shows the arrogance,
though, like it just shows how disconnected from history they are.
And the crazy thing is she hasn't given a damn about the people or any excuse,
my French or anything, you know, that has to do with America or the constituents
that live in this country or even the people that vote for her.
I mean, at the end of the day, they're just thrown to the wolves, you know,
she's in office.
So, you know, I'm thankful to be in Trump's America.
I'm glad we were able to pull it off.
And, you know, I agree with you, but I've got an article here out of the Oregon live.
Organizers of pro-gun rallies, lament low turnout.
And that's what's happening.
A lot of patriots, conservative Christians, pro-gunners think we're winning.
Yes, we're in a war.
We won some battles.
I don't want to use the north versus south analogy,
but it's kind of like the south winning battles early on.
Let me tell you something.
The globalists are coming down like a ton of bricks, brother.
And so I was telling people that we woke up the enemy.
And I think we will win.
But if people don't get that, we're in the fight of our lives.
Getting Trump elected was like landing at Normandy.
When we landed at Normandy, you know, in 1943, did that mean we'd beat Hitler?
No, no, lots of gun sheds still at that point, but, you know, it's an uphill battle, you know,
and I'm going to fight it every step of the way.
I think we really need to come together.
No, I agree with you.
What do you think of the 133 attacks last week or so and all these attacks on conservatives?
I mean, physical attacks, trying to kill people.
I mean, the left is clearly launching an intimidation campaign.
I think it's going to backfire.
It's totally going to backfire.
I can't recall her name, but the lady that was part of Trump's cabinet,
there was at that restaurant up in Virginia that got kicked out the other week, you know.
Huckabee Sanders.
Right.
And Maxine Waters is totally stirring the pot, you know, on that side of the stick,
you know, telling them, oh, shut them out of restaurants, out of gas stations, this, that, the other, you know.
How do they think that makes somebody give up on their political views?
Most people are just busy.
But if you like, try to kick me out of a restaurant that everybody I know, that makes them get angry, right?
Right.
And I don't care if it's my favorite Philly cheesesteak restaurant on the planet.
If they're going to kick me out for my, you know, right of opinion, I'm not going to support them anymore.
So chances are they're going to go out of business.
Well, that's the point, Eric, is it doesn't make you give up your political views.
It doesn't make you back down.
It emboldens you.
So they think we're like them a bunch of peer pressure wimps.
God bless you.
Okay, I went to the bottom of the calls that may have confused the folks.
Click on the calls because I could punch my own butts, but I have them doing it in there.
So we're going to go to another call.
Who should we go to here?
Who should we go to next?
Let's talk to Brandon in Texas.
He says he wants to talk about my predictions and in game.
Brandon, you're on the year.
Thanks for holding.
Oh, thank you, Alex.
Yeah, I'm a long, long time listener, a first time caller.
Welcome.
And can you hear me okay?
Can you hear me okay?
I can hear you really good.
Okay, great.
Well, I went to Crockett High School in the early nineties, man.
I just, I want everybody that's listening to you to know that you have been calling it out, calling it out since day one.
Your motives have never shifted.
You're like a pop, you're like Ron Paul, you're like a rock, right?
Now that's integrity.
You're a real man.
And that's not a cool thing these days.
I get that.
But, you know, you red-pilled me way back with Endgame, a blueprint for global enslavement.
And when I say red-pilled, I mean, Pregnalone, brother, you put me down for like seven days.
That was almost straight up depressed, right?
But I researched all the history in that movie.
You're on point.
Everything that's unfolded in this day to day bullshit.
I'm not a political person, but I have become a political person because these things are unfolding day by day, just like you said they would.
And now they're to the surface like a big fucking hit.
Oh, whoops.
I didn't mean to say that.
We're going to let you go, but I appreciate your call.
We can't have cussing because we got to lay it once.
You cuss again.
We got to let you go.
But that's the thing is I'm not that smart.
The globalists have all written their battle plans.
They're carrying them out.
They're anti-human.
We need to be aware of it and then you need to make a decision which side you're on.
Let's go to a caller in Illinois.
Let's go to Antoine in Illinois.
Antoine, thanks for calling.
Go ahead.
Hello, Alex.
How are you?
This is Antoine in Illinois.
How are you, brother?
How are you doing?
I'm good, man.
Good talk to you.
It is such a pleasure to finally connect with you, my friend.
I just want to start off by telling you I am so proud of what you and your organization have done.
Years ago, when I was a college student at Northern Illinois University, some colleagues of mine,
we did the same thing you did in the college level in the late 80s and the early 90s.
And I wanted to know if you were familiar with the mentor of mine by the name of Stephen Coakley.
He was a psycho-activist, African-American from the Chicagoland area.
He was well-renowned for teaching about the Illuminati, the Boulet, FEMA, Rose Rockstile,
the whole nine-
What was his name again?
His name is Stephen Coakley.
Now, he's past or now.
But his name is...
I mean, the name seems familiar.
For people who know about the Boulet, that's the African-American version of the Masons
that they then kind of try to use to control people, right?
That's exactly right.
Stephen Coakley was very known for that on the grassroots level, very popular.
Again, he was my mentor along with...
I know you're pretty good friends with Brother Minister Louis Farrakhan.
But I just wanted to see if you were familiar with him because he was doing this before.
That was a Facebook, YouTube...
Yes, no, I remember the name.
And as for Louis Farrakhan, he's a great brain, very, very smart person.
And the media kind of takes out of context what he says.
But I want to have peace.
I want everybody to do great.
And I think that Farrakhan does understand the larger picture.
And I know he's been involved with Kanye West behind the scenes, the rest of it.
I know Farrakhan told me point blank.
And I said, is this all record?
He said, no.
But he didn't say it on camera that he was...
He liked Trump.
And I know he's been kind of back and forth trying to get his constituents to understand what's happening.
But I think with this message saying Trump is destroying all our enemies a month ago,
do you think people in the nation of Islam got how far Farrakhan's going
trying to warn them of the battle we're in right now?
I do.
I think it's going to take more teaching about that.
One of the reasons why I was really glad to see Trump run for office
because he was trying to break the stranglehold that many of the politicians
have had on this country for years, including him.
Exactly.
Trump is very not simple in the word simple, but very straightforward.
He wants prosperity for everybody.
He does not... he looks who a person is.
Like Martin Luther King said, like not the color of the skin, who they are.
And Farrakhan looks right at me.
And he said, no, I think Trump overall is going to shake the system up, is going to win.
And he said, and I think you know that.
And he said, but you know...
And I said, listen, I don't have any little communication with Trump except every once in a while.
But Farrakhan was pro-Trump when I met with him.
Thank you, Antoine.
We'll be back.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation,
vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects
and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
And supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients,
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support. Try bodies today at InfowarsLife.com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later,
we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
The real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen,
our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain,
healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill,
can quickly become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has,
but it's also got the boost added.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
There's an attempt to turn off the world economy.
Gentlemen, we have called you together to inform you that we are going to overthrow the United States government.
And you tried it.
We have a frontal assault on the lives of the New World Order.
But you failed.
It's Alex Jones.
Do you still think that chef will brought down the World Trade Center?
Does anybody else see a problem here?
If the government has something to hide, are they so afraid to answer a few questions?
This story does not end up.
Mueller and the Bushes and the Clintons thought they'd stage 9-11 with their Islamic buddies.
And now, you know, does Trump played that card during the campaign?
He played it back the week after the attack happened.
And he believed there were bombs in the building because his engineer that he hired built the World Trade Center.
The architect that built it, the Japanese American, said that it was blown up.
And Trump's just sitting back.
He could play that card up front, but they'd say he's crazy.
He's got to turn the economy around.
He's got to unify people together.
He's got to defeat the deep state, and then he's going to bring it out.
But you notice when I came out last Monday and told you that Trump is looking to release
the fact that Mueller covered up 9-11, which has already been documented.
They've got a string of more than 30 senior FBI agents, current and retired,
ready to expose how they were ordered to shut up by the Clintons, by the Bushes, and then by Mueller.
Ha ha ha, Mueller.
It's the Ace of Spades. Building 7, the FBI CIA headquarters blown up the bombs in it.
The witness protection programs.
Oh yeah, Barry Jennings all of it.
These guys are so cowards that they couldn't even imagine talking about this out loud.
And the pedophile airplanes with Jeffrey Epstein and Mueller running it for the FBI.
All of it's coming out. All of it.
So good luck.
Ha ha ha ha.
Because no matter what you do, Mueller, no matter what Bill Clinton does, no matter what you do,
it's all coming out now.
You want to bang heads?
You guys keep looking for a fight.
You found one, didn't you?
gonna bang heads with you so hard you're not gonna even know what to do. If you
want to bang heads with me you came the right spot. See with me it's not some
macho thing it's it's life and death. My soul hangs over the precipice of
eternity. Maybe for what my ancestors did or what I did whatever it is. I just
know God wants me to take you down all you narcissistic mental patients come
back deep state white shoe boy butt smelling Ivy League turds. All that
matters is she burning hell.
So just keep pushing and pushing and pushing and just like Hitler in that
bunker as we close in on you. You're into the right thing aren't you? I know you are.
I want to go to Robert in Seattle and Dennis in Kentucky and Robert in
Pennsylvania and Patrick in Indiana and George in Las Vegas and Alexander and
Alpine Illinois and Craig in Arizona and Tony in Texas and many others. Right
now let's go to Robert in Seattle in a deep state stronghold of Jeff Bezos you're
on the air go ahead. Alex pleasure to speak with you. First I'd like to say
thank you for red-pilling me opening my eyes what's really going on. Second
thing I'm a white male I work hard I was raised by my grandparents taught me an
honest days work the value of a dollar. I'm heading to Home Depot today to go
work on my house because the economy is doing so well I got a nice raise I'm
actually can afford to buy things now and I live in the area with all these
med jobs that walk around that know have no idea what they're talking about when
you gauge them in conversation they go right to the attacks and I feel like I
walk around with a target on my back I've actually wore a Trump shirt out one
day gotten several arguments and it's mostly around the Seattle area I haven't
been to Portland I want to go August 4th I suggest you don't go because I think
something would happen bad if you were seen on site so for you you stay back
let's be clear anti-fuzz attacking people I've been to Seattle because my
wife wanted to go visit some family she has it lives there and like I walk
outside the first ten minutes and people are attacking me now let's be
clear I'd shake 10 15 hands and have folks wave at me for every person that
attacked me but still they are crazed and I've got a stack of news I haven't
gotten to of all of this the attacks in the in the in the in the in all of it
but they are absolutely crazed man and and and they're pissed that they are
fundamentally hate America they'll tell you they hate America and it's like but
you live here morons all the anti-depressants people are on man I
got off of them some of your supplements kind of woke me up you know the
I don't really help but it's just you know I questioned God a while back and I
realized that my job in life is to protect my family protect my freedom
protect my right to do what I want to do without impeding on people and that's
what I do every day no I agree work hard I agree but but but you mentioned how
like St. John's work we don't even sell that we should and major studies is like
double better than Prozac but but but the issue a dead-temp toxic effects is
that we have vitamin C deficiencies we have iodine deficiencies these cause
our major issues I mean my god I got an iodine six years ago it made me a lazy
ass I used to swim and lift weights every day and was fat I got on X2 and I
mean it's incredible I like lost 30 40 pounds it always stayed off my libido's
better it's like I'm 16 years old but again this is the iodine conspiracy
we'll tell you something to be a man is to be expendable and that doesn't mean
you don't have worth you have great worth but men are expendable and exactly
what you said the minute you realize being a man isn't about choosing the
biggest gang or always being on the winning team it's about doing what's
right being strong and not caring what other weak people say but following the
compass God gave you and so I know what it is to wear a Trump shirt or an M4
shirt outside I know what it is in a in a blue state area to go through that we
have to do that and use those opportunities when they do it to
videotape it as we're doing to just expose that these are authoritarian's
imagine if we give in to them now how bad it will be later so that's men's job
the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in a moment of comfort
or convenience but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy
Martin Luther King you look at Martin Luther King he said don't judge the man
what color they are what gender they are what they do what that just like me you
got good food I go to your restaurant got me good music I listen to you don't
care if you're black or white I listen to some song whether it be hip hop or
country or blues or I don't think well this is a black artist let me click on
that this is a white artist or this is a Hispanic artist or I'm gonna go see a
Mexican director they do have like some of the best directors I'm I just go oh
that was a great movie who's the director oh it's another Mexican it's not
like some cliche it's with the patterns you notice in life and so that's what
I'm getting at here is that we have free will we're gonna do it God bless you
Robert in Seattle keep it up Dennis in Kentucky where they just attacked the
Senate majority leader last night and so much more straight ahead on the other
side of this break but listen no matter what happens this life is only a test our
relationship with God is numero uno
Patrick in the great nation of Australia you're on the air worldwide
thanks for holding I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now I
remember back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white
screen and I had to load down the page on my dial-up into that and I thought it
was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all
your guests and I've been using your product since the first iteration of
survival shield and since then I'm on the X2 the super male vitality the case
man the real red pill micro ZX body it's all amazing yeah and I wanted to say
that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're
detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know
God the more you fear God but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there
1776 worldwide
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars calm when you spread
the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary and the
globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the
bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more
important than ever that everyone go to info wars calm forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with
critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you
more than ever to share the info wars com articles to share the videos to tell
people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars com forward slash newsletter
we are the renaissance and we are winning info wars life is launching its
newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic
fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your
body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our
50 billion live active culture for a life as well as micro zx that targets the
yeast the mold and the funguses in the gut so this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products you get
them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time and I'm doing this to introduce these products
to you bodies sold out of a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula
we can come up with it sold out for another month and a half we sold it at
50% off till it's sold out and I think it's gonna be the same way with this
fiber get yours today info wars life.com
one of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of
southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their
techniques based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect
conditions we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support
and wake up America patriot blend coffee ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with
the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee bean
carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural
productions patriot blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with great depth to
give you just what you need in the morning you can even choose to start
your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused with a powerful
blend to support your immune response and stamina it's time to take care of
your morning routine get a bag of patriot blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you know what I just say this because it's important for people to know it's
not like info wars is that important or we're on a power trip it's just
important to metaphysically say it before I ever knew what I was doing I got
offered pretty big Hollywood roles like out of the gates you know two three
minutes talking major movies and paychecks and voiceover deals I made a
million dollars on a voiceover I did for a national insurance company through a
union in a year or like 900 something thousand dollars and you know what I did
I put it right the general fund and built info wars not that money's bad but I
don't care about that I got a car that runs great got medicine got a house like
it is that's why I want to keep you poor they want to keep you down on a level
where you never get to the realization is that it doesn't matter at a certain
level like most of time I fly coach on a plane because what's the point of paying
three times more but I've been offered all these big Hollywood roles and man
they got bigger once I wouldn't sell out so I turned down ten million dollars a
year in 2002 ten million dollars a year no employees to me now all these years
later we bring in way more than that but it pays for all the crew and all the
satellites the rest of but I just it's like Hollywood thinks it's God it thinks
you've got to go with it and even the conservative end of Hollywood says you
know I'm a billion-dollar producer and these are nice people but we want you to
go make this movie and make this show it's like I can't do that because every
time I agree to it it then has to go through this process of being watered
down what is important and I only make this point because I just got you know this phone call in a big hot
movie that's being produced they wanted me in a major role that wouldn't do it
and it was a smaller role than it was a cameo and something against the
production it's that you understand I can't refuse Hollywood and then not
refuse a part of it what is powerful what is real is directly talking to you
unscripted live this isn't an act and that's the whole thing like I remember
growing up my mom watching the Oscars thinking boy that's really cool those are
really the cool people and by college they were like mom I go home mom you're
watching the Oscars they're a bunch of losers and so it's just so liberating to
not care about that and then people can't believe they just can't believe
like you don't want the history channel show you don't want the Discovery
Channel show you know I'm like already got two or three of them they never even
know I have two or three of each already did it and not to sell out I just was
like sure I'll do your I'll do your show I'll host your show and then they put it
on it's such a joke man it's like always other talk show hosting people yeah
look at that shot of Hollywood people look at them they're the actors they're
the candy-ass they want to be the big star on TV like Meryl Strep promoting
pedophilia and like somebody like me has got to be no I don't want to be in that
and then it's always the pitch like we'll censor you if you don't we'll come
after you know I already got the message but what hurts is friends I've had in
some cases 20 years that were truthful and when they get threatened they roll
over like a dead hog in the middle of a pool in summer they just roll over it's
very very sad but I do historically and metaphysically and ritually
reject Hollywood and reject everything associated with it I will have nothing to
do with it nothing nothing 0 0 absolute total 0 understand that so it's like
Fox News try to give me three different TV shows and then when I refused the
third one after about two years they had a big article the Newark Daily News back
when I was like you know being attacked once a week in the news now it's like
every five seconds and it was like Jones wanted a job at Fox News but he got
rejected and and again it's not about me bragging oh I got offered a job at
Fox News it was like I got offered a job drinking out of porta-potties and look
I'm glad handy's there I'm glad Carlson's there they're great people I'm glad
Lou Dobbs is there I'm glad Lord Ingram is there I'm not saying Fox is bad but
the producers and the managers and the jerks the types that fired Matt Drudge
when he had the top-rated show there they're the losers and Matt Drudge doesn't
need them I don't need them that's what I'm trying to say is that I I'm innately
me and I'll never forgive Fox News trying to give me three shows and I was
like you're kidding I get on a plane Friday night and I fly there and tape
Saturday and air Sunday where I moved to New York so I could and I don't see my
oh this is a big chance for you and then they'd rape me they would rape me and
say that I wanted them you know it's like the ugly girl in high school that
ties to get her brother to fight you he's like screw you remain my sister and you
kind of slam his head in the wall he goes and the sister runs over and says
Bobby he didn't really do it I'm sorry it's like it's it's not it's like Fox
News so I can sell catheter lines I want to change history I want to bust up the
establishment I want to change the world I don't want to be in Hollywood movies I
don't want an HBO show I don't want what you have and I've told you hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times I want to break your
neck I don't want to hang out with you soulless scumbags yeah that's what they
really went after immediate matters figured out because there's all these
fake ratings out there but listen I'm gonna stop out there come back and take
a few final calls and I have a plug in an hour and 40 minutes I'm gonna tell you
this right now because here's the deal they asked why don't I plug every
segment like other talk show hosts if we need to fund ourselves because it's
boring and if people are called to get our products that are excellent just like
our information they're gonna do it but our July 4th specials for July 4th
second American Revolution week I've got it in the next few days and it's 50% off
much of our best-selling items like brain force, supermal vitality, you name
it it's got 4.8 stars, power views, brain force and we've got a whole big line of
these babies there and if you want to buy the products you're gonna do it
knockout sleep support 1776, silver bullet 9.95 with free shipping, super
malvitality, you know my wife I'll just be totally honest she said you know
knockouts usually super strong I'm gonna take two right now instead of one we've
got a big organic company every lot varies some are super strong some aren't
this is real stuff here Alexa pure breeze air pure fires hundred dollars off
free shipping that's a huge deal trouble food that's free shipping it's all
there in FullWareStore.com and FullWareLive.com and the fluoride free
toothpaste four to five o'clock little silver 9.99 it's 50% off right now but
here's the deal man if you don't want high quality products if you don't want
to support the sinful war I'm not even worried about it because I'm lined up with
God and I'm not lined up with the Robert Mueller and the Jerry Epstein
pedophile planes he imagined me and signed up to that how Mueller used them
to set up thousands of politicians raping little nine ten-year-old girls
that's all admitted in that big sack of crap thinks I'm afraid of him oh I want
to just bring him down living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really
is the real drama can be found here in Leilani estates but a lot of us on the
Big Island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid
rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower
the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next we tested
the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal
levels within safe measure but the pH was also restored to optimal levels as it
turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it info
war's life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our
latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin D3 winter sun is a
premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement it is produced by
extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch
is analyzed for purity and D3 content it's completely free of toxins and
allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it
winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3 the
research and development took over two years but the result as verified by
independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world
read the facts at info wars life.com about winter sun vitamin D3 not only
does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function something the globalist are targeting visit info wars.com
today or call 888-253-3139. Info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in
modern medicine introducing pollen block we have found an extraordinary new
natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting
clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the
1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experience less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses they began
studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit
of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an
antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and
inflammatory responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
head to info wars life.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable
tablets this 4th of July is special everybody can see it they can feel it
the globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their tyranny
and America yet again is at the heart of the resistance the globalist that's
why this 4th of July I'm asking all of our great supporters to think about info
wars now more than ever and what would the world be like if info wars wasn't
there resisting the globalist what would have happened if you hadn't supported
info wars we would not be having the victories we have today so yes a lot of
good things are happening but the enemy is striking back so please think about
info wars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same
time on the 4th of July that's so historic we have record sales going on
right now free shipping on hundreds of different items more than 20 items are
50% off like brain force plus x2 is 40% off knockout sleep page 1776 silver
bullets 995 colletal silver and free shipping you can't beat that this 4th
of July special and our sales are special to match it infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty it's alex jones
I'm looking at a story from worldnetdaily.com upon info wars.com I read this earlier today I'm
at the cover today but illegal alien to find 280 dollars for killing an FBI
agent and fire marshal and then you go I looked at the police report it's all
true and again I don't care what color you are whether you're black white
brown whatever it's like illegal aliens I had an illegal alien only like 20
miles an hour it's like 16 17 years ago in a wendy's park a lot hit my truck
crush the side door in and the cops go oh we can't get him out of insurance just
go and my insurance charged me and I don't care the fact is I'm a person too
the illegal alien isn't allowed to just do this but just like the illegal alien
shot the young woman in the back her dad held her she died in the San
Francisco jury said we're letting him go he's an illegal alien and you ask
yourselves what paradigm is this what world is this the globalist half-two in
Europe and the US incentivize free housing free welfare no problem come
here to bring the worst people not bring the good people from those countries
but bring the worst to destabilize it's a military attack and they admit it is
people go what do you mean it's military attack a military attack means
they're taken over not the people they're bringing in but the big powerful
corporations manipulating it they want to conquer you it's the way of the world
there's always people that want to do that and those of us that don't think
like that are always blind to it I'll get a virtue signal here but man let me
tell you something I love people with brown skin I find women with brown skin
very attractive the point is it's all a fraud we're all together but you can't
let Soros a Nazi collaborator blow up the whole country when he's done it to
other nations and not recognize he's a bad person let's go to Dennis in
Kentucky where the senator later just got run of another restaurant harassed
with his wife being called a Nazi when Mitch McConnell's for the open borders
guy another thing is it's what they go we're in a
killer and Paul he supports Trump and then he's the most anti-trump guy when
it comes to real issues the only guy that brings up real issues on Trump
because I'm anti-trump on some issues it's the ignorance man it's it's crazy
so let's go to Dennis go ahead Dennis in Kentucky thanks for holding thank you
so much for having mr. Jones and and it's a pleasure to actually speak with
you for the first time in my life I usually call him when Hoenn is on
because I know that I can actually have a third time but I will say this on your
on your dilemma with mr. Joe Rogan you owe Joe Rogan nothing Joe Rogan is a
sense liner he knows where his butter is bred he's always been that way he used
to be a person that tried to get people to do anything for money you remember
fear factor that's how Joe Rogan became a household name it wasn't for anything
else Joe Rogan was a fear factor guy that tried to get you to eat Rocky
Mountain oysters well it'd be like it'd be like donkey balls exactly so for Joe
Rogan to sit here and pretend if you look at his body language during that
that transmission you gave earlier look how he always looked over to make sure
that Jamie was giving him the yes or no nod all you got to do is just look at
body language that's all I can say about Joe Joe's my friend I'm getting the
fight with him I just know that there's major web censorship going on and then
he continues to misrepresent what me and others are saying and I just want Joe to
realize why isn't he on the winning team we're gonna win anyways he's on the
wrong side of history he knows it but his he is being for fun it as the face of
you too you gotta unrealize that he joke moment is the face of you know I
totally here that's my beef I said an earlier live thing I did before the show
is that he doesn't get censored I've called up and asked for his help not for
me but for everybody and then and then just no response so all I know is he's
got Joey Diaz on there you know acting like we're just saying all this stuff I
don't want to fight with him but God he just continues to misrepresent what
we're saying okay because he actually knows who you are but he knows that
those people have their foot on his neck about what he can say when he can say
it and how he chooses to say it it's okay mr. Jones you have been proven
throughout your track record as an upstanding citizen and a patriot for
this country if anyone else has anything to say about it all they have to do is
come and debate you right around no I agree God bless you I appreciate your
call I just I have a loyalty to old friends and I like Joe and I just he's
got Shapiro on there and he's got all these other people and it's just it like
saying Soros was a victim of the Nazis that he said he loved it man he loved
rounding people up and to me that's what made me mad but notice Joe in the new
video doesn't defend Soros so maybe that's a change I don't want to get
sideways Joe I just I don't know what to say actually I don't want to say at this
point God bless you I appreciate your call got a bunch of the colors here and
we got George in Las Vegas no more Hillary let's go to George in Las Vegas
and then Tony George you're on the air thanks for holding go ahead hi mr.
Jones thank you for taking my call thank you I just was watching here and
you announced that Hillary said she's gonna be running again well she's told
her constituents she is is in the New York Post and dredge report but she
clearly wants the money that she's running so she's she's definitely already
stealing the money for the run right right it's just you know I was thinking
this country has gotten almost tore apart by this last election and it's like
she's going to try to do it again and just finish the job well that's the
satanic arrogance I mean I know that for a fact she had a brain tumor removed four
years ago she's walking dead but it just yeah she'll never she's not gonna win
she's not gonna run you watch she'll be in a hospital or in my opinion dead in a
couple years but it just shows how the demon never stops the zombie never stops
right and so I was just thinking hopefully with all these charges and
proof that we have on her and Bill and everybody else maybe they'll take her
away before anything happens I know that Trump is playing a hundred percent by
the book he's totally surrounded but he's winning and we're trying to turn the
country around but I just wish my average American knew how serious it was
because I don't know what leads to Trump I will I will
the truth and it's very frustrating God bless you George all right we got
Alexander Craig Tony got so many great callers Tony in Texas you're on the
air thanks for holding hey Tony Tony's gone okay let's go to Craig Craig in
Arizona you're on the air thanks for holding go ahead Alex how are you sir
I'm blessed brother I'm very humble ball you folks I appreciate you I just want
to take a quick moment to thank you and all the independent journalists of the
world for standing up and holding the flag up at Fort McHenry and keeping our
flag standing and keeping our flag going and saving the Republic sir thank you
well God bless you know it truly is a fight for the country it doesn't mean
America's perfect America's got a lot of problems but it's based in Christianity
it's based in pro-human ideas not that we ever did that but we believe in that
and that's why the enemy hates it like look at how the evil globalist hate
America what does that tell you about America well in the words of George
Washington a true patriot would rather stand on his feet than die and then
surrender on his knees God bless you thank you all right we'll go to Alpine
Illinois Alpine Illinois and Alexander Alexander go ahead hey Alex Jones
pleasure to speak to you nice talk to you Alexander go ahead so I'm new into this
politics game and I just I just wonder if if that 9-11 thing gets fully exposed I
feel like that would be the trigger for the Civil War but at the same time I'm
wondering will the last beat us by infesting us with their war off their
world population before like we get to that point well that's here's the deal
justice be done may the heavens fall 9-11 was staged with globalist
radical Islam that has to be exposed to the deep state the average third world
population is a victim of globalism morally in many cases they are better
than the average bull rotten America be they black white it's just that they're
being brainwashed as soon as they get here so their only uses a weapon like a
dam that breaks if water's coming down your down your road to kill you water's
not bad there's just too much of it so African immigrants Latin American
immigrants Eastern Europeans they're not our problem except they're being
brainwashed against us when they're brought in so they're only a weapon and
so our bigger problem is the GMO the vaccines the globalist their propaganda
if we got our country back we can bring in a hundred million two hundred
million people I don't care if they're black Hispanic white whatever as long
as they get a shot at being pro-america invited in they get in and are turned
against the country the minute they get here so I just want them to like be
shown like the different slideshow here's communism here's freedom which one do
you want you've got a birthright America's already brown America's already
Hispanics already have the population they'll be 80% in 50 years will they
reject it or they accept Americana I'll see you back tomorrow 11 a.m. Central
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and
health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a
source of 100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and
overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to
support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with
this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true
selenium at info wars life dot com do you realize that when you spread the
links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the
world it's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist it is you the info
warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against
the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world
and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading
the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship
it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward
slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get
between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so
now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share
the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare
minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
you're listening to the alex jones show
