Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what he doesn't do that he's mean as a Wolverine
It's 1159 at Radio Free America, and this is Uncle Sam with music and the truth until dawn
Right now I got a few words for some of our brothers and sisters in the occupied zone
The chair is against the wall the chair is against the wall John has a long mustache John has a long mustache
It's 12 o'clock American another day closer to victory and for all of you out there on or behind the lines
This is your song
But they took a lot of people away people that they thought we're gonna make trouble for them people that had guns and things
They wanted it just took my way
Where?
We had occasion camps that's what they call it
So part of it we have to break through our kind of private idea that kids belong to their parents or kids belong to their families
and recognize the kids belong to whole communities
I have decided we really need camps for adults
All persons of Japanese descent were required to register now
They were taken to race tracks and fairgrounds where the army almost overnight had built assembly centers
What kind of a situation in the US
Plus you have a lot of people that are coming out of the military that have the ability and the knowledge to to build
IEDs and to defeat law enforcement techniques
These people are radicalized and they don't support the United States and they're disloyal to the United States
It's our right and our obligation to segregate them from the normal community
Put your gun down really
Rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty. It's Alex Jones. Are you some kind of a constitutionalist?
So these people who hold themselves out to be patriots are not. They're nothing more than domestic terrorists
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance
What do you see there, boy?
Brandon Trump gives every indication by what he says and what he does and what he doesn't do
That he's mean as a Wolverine
Wolverines
Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the globalist are funding a collapse of the third world
Then put socialism communism in charge and then collapse western borders and governments from within
And bring the world into a new neo feudalistic fascist system in their own words
A post industrial world
This is an incredible time to be alive
It is July 2, 2018 and we are broadcasting worldwide
There has been, of course, a man arrested for reportedly planning a July 4 terror attack with bombs in Cleveland
Just yesterday I had the headline that anti-fud Democrats deep state are planning to launch their civil war
July 4th, you can see it as a deep marcation line where they're building up towards that date and towards the summer
And into the fall to overthrow Trump
So we have the press conference on that and a lot more than magically, of course, the arrest start happening
You have over the weekend in Portland, even mainstream news admits, Antifa attacked the peaceful prayer vigil
And then the police called it a riot and shut it down
And it was a bunch of meth heads and college professors and people wanting to make their bones
Wanting to go out and throw models at people, bricks at people, carry bombs at people, the big firecrackers
They got arrested with knives, clubs, beating people over the head
And then if you fight back, they call it a riot
So that's what's going on, ladies and gentlemen, as the globalists, George Soros and others, as the big megabanks
I tend to destabilize this country and overthrow it just like Ukraine
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
Which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon
But our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
For maximum prebiotic effect
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139
Here we are broadcasting worldwide on Monday, the second day of July 2018
We are now halfway into this year and it is an amazing year, isn't it?
We have the critical midterm election coming up in a few months
We have the large central banks and megacorporations openly fomening leftist revolutions around the world
In attempts to collapse the third world
We have everyone from Michael Moore to the other usual suspects like Maxine Waters and others saying hashtag hot Republicans
We have more over the weekend calling for, we'll play the clip coming up, a uprising against Trump and for a million people
To surround the Capitol and the Congress to not let Trump have his new Supreme Court nominee that he'll be announcing very, very soon
We have Robert Mueller now targeting campaign finance, thought it was about Russia
And guess what he's targeting, the NRA, that's being reported by the Hill
I couldn't even have imagined that, but why not, it's totally political, it's totally criminal created by Mr. Rosenstein
Who got grilled and caught in a bunch of lies before Congress
It's simply unbelievable that they've gone this far, this rogue element of the government
That has been completely exposed as a deep state cabal to stop the recovery of this Republic
It is quite a time to be alive
And then of course we've got this big news, fresh on the heels of Alexandra Cortez beating the incumbent Democrat in the primary in New York City
In the deepest of the deep area, a shoe in for Congress, she wants free healthcare, she wants free school, she wants jobs for everyone, guaranteed by the government
And a bunch of other things that are out of the communist manifesto, guaranteed to completely create economic collapse
Flooding America with illegals who vote, overthrowing the Constitution, disarming all citizens, never ending government handouts for all
Class tribal warfare against whites, she's an open racist, government run third world healthcare, government monopoly, overeducation, weekend police, weekend police while gangs run rampant
The results, economic collapse, lawless violence, unending human suffering, government genocide, the collapse of individual liberty, race wars, mass starvation, total brainwashing of children, rampant unemployment
Meet the face of tyranny and suffering. If you think Venezuela is awesome, you'll love Alexandra Cortez in FullWars.com
Let's retweet that meme that Mike Adams made and gave us, the Health Ranger
Let's retweet that at Real Alex Jones and let's get Paul to tweet that because it's so important
And why did I mention that? I should have started the broadcast with this little nightmare tidbit
But I tend to kind of escalate up, don't I, instead of bringing up the big news first
A socialist like Hugo Chavez, first he was a democratic socialist like Alexander Cortez
And then he was a socialist talking about Hugo Chavez in Venezuela and then he was a communist
And he said, we've always been communists and now the country has been in, only way to describe it is road warrior level collapse for five years
Hundreds of thousands of starved to death, it's a thousand a week they estimate
And now Mexico has elected a socialist president who's told people not just in Mexico but all over the world to leave your towns and find a life in the United States
Yes, and conquer the United States through socialism and through a Latin American socialist movement funded by the Ford Foundation and the globalist
Mexico's new socialist president, Andres Orbador, known as the Mexican Hugo Chavez previously told citizens of the country they must leave their towns to find life in the United States
Orbador or AMLO claimed a landslide victory in Mexico's presidential election with 53% of the vote, having previously described President Trump as erratic and arrogant 64 year old former Mexico City Mayor
Infamously told Mexicans last month that they should flood the US border
As soon, very soon after the victory of the movement, we will defend all the immigrants in the American continent, that's UN talk, that's total George Sorrell's world government
But everyone, I guess he's going to open Mexico's borders too, now don't hold your breath
And soon, very soon, I'm quoting him, after the victory of our movement, we will defend all the migrants in the American continent and all migrants in the world
Andres Orbador, am I pronouncing that right, said, adding that immigrants must leave their towns and find a life in the United States
He went on to emphasize that this was the human right we all defend, we will defend, yes to have free everything, I get it
He's also a promised amnesty for drug cartels, nationalizing the oil industry, and a nonviolent revolution to wipe out the country's corrupt elite
Now there is a corrupt elite there, and it's basically feudalism, but we're going to replace it with this, okay, we'll get ten times worse
And of course drug cartel amnesty, I guess he means if they lay down their weapons and stop killing everybody, we'll see how this goes
But it's interesting that he's telling everybody to leave Mexico, but he's creating a socialist utopia
So he's also proposed amnesty for drug cartels, nationalizing the oil industry, and a nonviolent revolution, I'm sure that'll work, to wipe out the country's corrupt elite
But who will lead it if half the population has left for America remains a mystery
One wonders why if AMLO's socialist populace revolution is so fantastic by anyone would want to flee Mexico
The mind truly boggles, maybe a 51% of U.S. millennials who support communism and socialism should try to immigrate to Mexico
Now that their guy is in charge and utopia is right around the corner, but don't hold your breath
It's Paul Joseph Watson article up on infowars.com that I added a few tidbits of factoid to
But this is so seismic that I probably should have just started the show with an emergency red siren like Rudge does and said
Venezuela has fallen, Nicaragua, El Salvador, all these other countries, Cuba, Mexico, to communism
What he's calling for is communism, and he's calling for raising taxes even on middle class, the tiny middle class in Mexico
And it will further descend into total bedlam, which is exactly what the globalists want
And so thank God that wall is being built, thank God because all of the third world is being collapsed as an official U.N. weapon plan
To destroy the West and destroy any prosperity on the planet that's not in the hands of the tax-exempt multinational elites that are above the law
This is their assault, this is their plan, this is their program
Mexico just elected a socialist slash communist who promises to weaponize all of Latin America's third world populations
And to flood the United States and bring it down for socialism
Unbelievable
This is the plan
This is the globalist counter-strike to nationalism, to populism, to free market, is to fund socialist and communist movements everywhere in these depressed collapsing areas
But here's the thing, Mexico out of 160 plus third world countries is rated in the top 10%
Mexico is in the top 10 of third world countries, it's got a lot of wealth, it's got pockets of prosperity, it's got culture, art, all that
But communism will destroy it
So Mexico is preparing the long nightmare plunge
And you know the globalists are behind this guy, it's on record
To collapse North America into itself, that's been the plan of the TPP, the North American Union, all of it
We'll be right back, we're going to be fighting back
This is Dan Pilla, do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Our tax debt's crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years, I've helped thousands and I can help you too
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor
Or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
To share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best, get a Sunny Bay heating pad
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work
And have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads
They began studying this effect in published trials
And decades later, we now have the fruit of this research
A fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase
Which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process
With an all-new natural caffeine boost included
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the real red pill, has quickly become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your remontae leaf extract
And more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way
It's got all the great stuff that the real red pill has, but it's also got the boost in it
Get the real red pill plus at Infowarsstore.com
Alex Jones, the foray conspiracy theorist who was a parent
Alex Jones
Scott, Russian, Scott
Infowars comes to mind
The reputation is amazing. I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed, I hope
Mexico just elected a socialist slash communist who is in the vein of Hugo Chavez and believes in nationalizing everything
But then they let the management be run by multinational corporations that will loot it
Now, Carlos Slim, who's very unpopular in Mexico, manipulated things by claiming he was against the socialist
But it turns out, even Reuters reports, he stands to gain the most from this man's election
Billionaire Slim could profit from election of Mexican leftists
There's Reuters. Well, he's been elected and just like the big multinationals, worked with Hugo Chavez to suck Venezuela dry
They're about to do it to Mexico even worse
Does that mean there aren't corrupt elites there? Does it not mean there's not warlords and all the problems? Absolutely
Did Mexico ever get out from under colonialism? No
Does it have a feudalist system? Yes
But now, ladies and gentlemen, all the people being told they're going to get a bunch of freebies
It's not going to be the big multinational corporations, the billionaires that pay
It's going to be the tiny middle class, and Mexico is about to have it destroyed
And the news even admits that George Soros is involved, of course he is
And so, it begins
We know every time a socialist is put in, they then become a communist
And we know what's happened in Latin America everywhere this has been put in
It is a nightmare scenario
But if you go back to the creation of the Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital
Like Karl Marx and Frederick Engels and the rest of them
British intelligence didn't know how to get all the serfs that were being freed off the land in Russia and in Europe and other areas
Because Christians were demanding that slavery be ended
And so the white peons in Europe, that just means a serf in Spanish
Just a little farmer
They were being freed off the land
The Industrial Revolution was happening, and so they concocted this whole system to create a classless system
And they concocted this whole operation so that they would get all the serfs that were coming off the land to go back into a communal system
Communism, and of course it created consolidated wealth, created nightmare wars, created hundreds of millions killed or starved to death
We know the history of communism, we know who runs it, what it's designed for, and where it leads us
And now we know that the UN is trying to collapse our borders and collapse Europe's borders
And also trying to put socialist and communist in, Muslim nations or radical Islamists
This is the plan, they've elected a guy that says, it is your job to invade El Norte
It is your job as migrants of the world to go anywhere you want, but he's not going to open the border up
For people to come up from Central America to know he's only going to open up the corridors as Mexico's already done
To allow people to stay on the railways and that's it
You deviate, you're beaten, you're shot, you're killed, you're put in prison
None of those folks are humanized, and I feel sorry for them
Fleeing, collapsing communism, fleeing, collapsing socialism in more than half of the nations
They are fleeing those nations in Central South America and then destabilizing the nations they're going into, like Chile
In other areas
And like dominoes falling towards the north
Collapse, collapse, collapse, collapse, collapse, now the last domino, collapse into Mexico
The last domino in Latin America and then boom
The giant Latin American population brought in to waiting arms at public schools and colleges and media and Netflix
Promoting communism and socialism and race consciousness and La Ricanquista and liberation theology all primed and ready
To be prepared for their piece of the pie, which is killing the pie, which is slicing up America, which is killing the golden goose that lays the golden eggs
The diabolical nature of this is unprecedented and it is an admitted UN, the global government plan, now collapsing Latin America, now collapsing into Europe
And the EU announces a partnership was in Reuters last Friday to invade countries, to use a new military to stop Italy from stopping the Zodiac boats and the ships coming in every day to Italy dumping off North Africans, Islamists
And the UN is to establish emergency centers and bring UN forces in to Spain and into France and into other areas, Sweden
They bring in 10 million plus in the last few years, it collapses city centers, oh my God, don't worry, the UN is here
UN announces plan to establish emergency centers in major European cities, boom, now you've got the UN stronghold, now they bring in even more, now they weaponize those people, then they hold you hostage
The Reuters headline, it was Friday, you can type it in, the headline was UN announces plan to establish migrant emergency centers in Europe
And then it says that the EU is inviting them in to then suppress the nation states that are trying to struggle free from it
So the attack from the third world and the attack from above the big global banks, there it is, UN to present plan for Mediterranean migrant centers for the EU in the EU
France says they want them inside their country, Italy says no
Wow, they say no, you help the collapsing third world by staying in North Africa and building infrastructure there, you don't bring the crisis where 90% never get a job and 80% are military aged men
You understand this is happening, this isn't a drill, this is the new world order, this is world government and Trump is there with patriots in our government that are left
They're trying to hold back and he's on the phone, trying to get Theresa May on board, she won't do it, she's a traitor, he's on the phone with the Hungarian and the Polish and the Romanian presidents that 1,000% get it
Because they've been invaded hundreds of times and they are holding the line in a total emergency with a new wave coming in that's twice the size of the last wave
Austria now is an emergency and elected patriots and is building emergency walls and massing troops on their border
We are wide open, this is a planned takeover, I'm getting chills right now, I am, incredible chills, I mean, I cannot express to you enough, this is World War 4
They're launching on every front, anti-terrorist, Islamist groups working with them, all of it, they're gearing up, they're building up for the chaos to bring in the big attack to sink and dynamite the engine of free market and then the whole world will slide into a giant depopulation nightmare program
And if you think Trump's fascist, they plan after a decade of world hell to bring in a true fascist world government you'll wish for Trump
Trump is the desperate attempt to stop this and to have a future for people
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy, the Dillon bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration
Get your Dillon bottle today at diyln.co, that's diyln.co
This is critical to get, to read, to go to the library, to go to the detergent, get them right now at killingunclesambook.com
That's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word, you are the InfoWars
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
So there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter
We are the Renaissance and we are winning. We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield
Toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield at infowarslife.com
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply, but more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show
This reality has been forced upon us. It is a choice. Just like when I said slavery is a choice. Einstein says the depth of the insanity is doing the same thing expecting a different result. So we keep on saying I hate you, I hate you, you fuck you, you fuck you. How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love? Why don't we just try love? We have the resources for a peaceful world. You know, sometimes you need some crazy motherfuckers to change something. Steve Jobs is crazy. Now we all know Steve Jobs falls. They say Trump's crazy. They say I'm crazy. But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones
Ladies and gentlemen, the globalists have been beta testing how to collapse nations using other countries that are collapsing that border them. And if you study communist theory, they actually have a program where they go in like dominoes, bring down a country, loot its wealth,
transfer it to the multinational communist combine that's always run by big banks. It's the big rich guys that run it. On record, declassified, the Venona secrets all of it, the globalists were running Russia for 80 something years as a colony to suck dry and use for their worldwide evil and then to exploit neighboring nations and overthrow them like China.
This is an exploitation phase. And they are making their move to collapse the third world like dominoes into the United States to collapse the Middle East and Africa into Europe. And it's admitted.
But everything previous to this has been on the low scale. They're making their worldwide move and admitting it and admitting they're going to get world government out of collapsing third world populations, giant migrant waves, biological emergencies, biological weapons releases,
super bugs and regional conflicts. This is World War four. Cold War was World War three and the CIA's own admissions. And it's here. It's now.
And the cherry on top is they will elect socialist or Islamist at every key point on the map as the final domino falls into the West and Mexico just elected a socialist slash communist that is called for migrants of the world to invade the United States and that no one has a right to borders.
Now, you think about that. He's going to implode Mexico. He's going to suck it dry. And George Soros and Carlos Slim are on record set to make the money.
You're like, wait, Carlos Slim has criticized the new Mexican president before he was elected. That's all for public consumption.
Carlos Slim is hated in Mexico because he's exploited people. And so they're not going to replace the Mexican elite. They're not going to replace the corrupt forces in Mexico.
It's going to get worse. And the people of Mexico are about to get squeezed real hard. And it's a real shame.
So I've laid out the fact that they're making their big move. Everything else has been a test, a test kind of like, oh, how are you doing? How are you doing? How are you doing?
That's a military tactic. And then finally, bam, when you get the big uppercut, the big right uppercut, you never know what hit you when your job breaks and your teeth clatter together and shattered.
You never know what hit you because it's socialism, communism, Antifa demonstrations. Oh, and then boom, it hits. The Antifa are the professors training for violence and murder.
The Antifa are the George Soros funding grips on record. And you look at Portland, even local news admitted, oh, the police called it a riot after Antifa through fireworks and bottles and bricks and knives at the Patriot prayer vigil that was there.
They had a prayer vigil and then some folks came out that wanted to stand up against Antifa. And all of this is just part of the probing.
Now, that all ties in to the globalist uncloking that they've been building their socialist systems. They've been building their candidates.
They've been preparing their people. They've had the Hollywood and the media hyping and all. And now they're beginning to roll it out. Oh, in New York, she wins the primary.
Alexander Cortez, whose platform is communist, not socialist. But whether you're Hugo Chavez or whether you're the new president in Mexico, who calls himself a Chavez, Andres, Manuel Lopez, Obrador, if I pronounced that right, he calls himself a democratic socialist too, just like Bernie Sanders did.
Oh, but once they get control, they're not. Then the red shirts come out, the red flags come out, and you go and get ready to have your business taken. And they're going to make you stay at your business and run it while you hire all their little buddies in there.
And then, of course, you just give it benign neglect and stop really carrying and everything falls apart. And that's how it works. But the globalists don't care because they're getting your water, and they're getting your timber, and they're getting your gold, they're getting your box site, they're getting your silver, they're getting your rare earth minerals, they're getting your populations labor, they're getting your telecommunications, they're getting your real estate, they're getting your infrastructure.
And this is how it always works. After 5, 10, 15, 20 years of communism, first starting out as socialism, democratic socialism, socialism, communism, then the CIA will fund a right wing overthrow, and all the land will be pennies on the dollar, and the people will be so thankful, and things will turn around right away.
But it'll be even more consolidated, and so you'll never get to own anything because you weren't part of the multinationals that came in after.
Cuba said is that it went total communist and never let anybody in for the globalist or man, but China is different.
Oh, after 20 years of Mao killing about a third of the population and training him to behave properly, all investment went there. And that's the plan. They're not communists, they're authoritarian, they're fascists, they're dehumanizing, they're monsters.
Now that said, the democrats have launched their new third world war, but they technically call it the fourth world war, and the democrats in our country are just players in this larger picture.
And so I said yesterday I predict increasing riots, unrest, terror attacks, honor about July 4th, going right through the summer into Mueller putting out his fake report in the fall, 25th amendment move to take out Trump, and today it's all over the nose.
They're planning uprisings, terror attacks everywhere because you can see them building, you can feel the energy, you can see the hate, you can see it expanding.
Radical Islam allied with the Soros funded left and this whole international combat. And Soros is just a front man. Bill Gates is in there, all of them.
When we come back, man accused of planning July 4th terror attack in Cleveland, headline should be Islamists arrested, reportedly, planning this, but it's all coming up just like I told you.
Now that said, we're going to beat this wave. And thank God we've got Trump in there, but the globalists are getting ready to make their moves all over the world, and that's why I thank God people are waking up because the time is so incredibly critical.
And all of that said, we need your financial support. We're not communists, we're not globalists, we're not mega bankers funded by, you know, some trillion dollar combine like every other communist nightmare is.
We're promoting Americana, success, free market, family, real freedom. That's why we're under attack. Because what we're promoting works, it's proven to work, and in a year and a half, it's turning around already.
But we as the tip of the spear and info wars are under mega attack. That's why I'm asking you this July 4th is critical July 4th when the enemy is going to step it up and really come after this is crossroads to commit to get great products and help yourself and your family and fund the info war
360 win. So please take advantage of the second American Revolution for the July Super sale and infowarstore.com 50% off and free shipping on dozens of best selling items and so much more.
We'll be right back on the other side to get into the Islamist terror attack that was reportedly foiled in Cleveland and the police press conference. Stay with us.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an info wars life. It take hours. Michael's DX plus and now is a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
It's the real red pill. It's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone. That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it.
It's loyal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without you. We couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering info wars store.com and remembering that it's not just you.
It's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake. And it's so essential to spread the word again. Thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution.
This is a great version of the powerhouse preglonone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included. A powerful preglonone base, the real red pill, has quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite products.
With an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff that real red pill has, but it's also got the boost at it. Get the real red pill plus at info wars store.com.
And America, yet again, is at the heart of the resistance, the globalist. That's why this 4th of July, I'm asking all of our great supporters to think about info wars now more than ever. And what would the world be like if info wars wasn't there resisting the globalist?
What would have happened if you hadn't supported info wars? We would not be having the victories we have today. So yes, a lot of good things are happening, but the enemy is striking back. So please think about info wars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time on the 4th of July that's so historic.
We have record sales going on right now, free shipping on hundreds of different items, more than 20 items are 50% off like brain force plus X2 is 40% off, knockout sleep aid 1776, silver bullets, 995 colletal silver, and free shipping. You can't beat that.
This 4th of July is special and our sales are special to match it info wars store.com.
It's Alex Jones.
They had CNN, MSNBC, Salon, all of them said you can look it up. Last year in the summer yet again.
They said Jones is a liar. That's not a real full page ad. And everybody went why would they do that when a lot of my listeners even went and bought the paper it was in nationally it was in there.
You can go there and see on their website because it's a military tactic. They want their people in the streets, not ours. They want to put out their announcement and have Michael Moore say surround the White House, surround the capital.
It's time for an uprising. Hashtag hunt Republicans blood in the streets up to the wrinkles.
Congressman's police all this stuff kidnap Baron Trump raping you know put him in the thing with pedophiles burned down ice centers docks where the ice people live.
To the point of you just get used to hearing that but never any opposition.
And then we go hey that's wrong to call for civil war shut up Jones nobody's calling for that.
But now in 2018 they're not lying anymore. There's the headline Politico Soros bands together with donors to call for the overthrow of Trump.
It's on folks.
They didn't want people to know it was building because they're going to have a catalyst.
Some cops shooting a black guy in the wrong or globalist infiltrating right wing groups and staging some event or little kids coming across with no parents or sometimes parents and saying they've been separated from their parents when in most cases doesn't even happen.
And it's a hoax.
They're looking for that catalyst.
They're looking for that crisis. And then all of a sudden once they've got the big demonstrations in a couple of burning cities then boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo.
All of a sudden Congressman and women's houses get attacked police chiefs houses get attacked talk show host get attacked the first family gets attacked and killed.
We're talking rocket attacks on the White House.
I mean, you're going to see that.
You're going to see rocket attacks, explosions, you know, helicopter gunships.
You're going to see other parts of the military fighting it off.
The media is going to come out and announce, though, that Trump was a Russian.
He was caught.
Anyone with him will be dealt with.
And you're going to have a civil war, folks.
It's on.
They got their people in the military.
They got them in the FBI.
They got them in local police departments.
And they got lists of who they're going to kill.
They've got lists right now, and they are considering launching it July 4th.
I'm telling you, I know it from my own gut.
My own research and sources have told me that, yes, they believe terror attacks with Islamists.
I said this yesterday and left as we're coming July 4th and then exponentially building,
building, building, building, building so you don't realize you're in a full on civil
war by September 1st.
Now, they're then going to claim all Republicans that were elected in 2016 were funded by Russians.
They'll be new elections.
They'll be removed.
How do I know?
Atlantic Monthly put it out openly.
The Atlantic Council called for it.
And then I've seen them carrying the plan out for a year and a half.
See, because they think we're dumb.
They openly have to communicate because their organization is so big and a lot of it's in
cells, so they communicate openly, civil unrest, overthrow, war on the streets.
And then once it hits, they're not going to just kill Trump.
They're coming for you.
And they think if they kill enough cops in the streets and do enough of this, that the
cops and everybody will roll over, run up the white flag and say, okay, we capitulate,
and they'll go, okay, strong city initiative, the UN, just like it's happening in Europe,
Reuters is going to come in and fix the rioting, fix the problems, they'll deactivate their
forces, they'll stop killing and stealing, stop burning, but the UN will come in with
a Democratic Party and have a truth and reconciliation system and new elections will never have real
elections again.
And I never even saw this coming.
The Hill reports that they're going to say that the NRA is Russian, that they've already
said the Second Amendment's Russian.
That's a real headline that we get, that we, America's Pro-Gun culture is controlled by
Russia.
Remember that headline?
Made no sense.
Mueller team likely gained access to NRA tax filings report.
So they're looking at bringing down the NRA.
I told you.
It's not just me.
It's not just Drudge.
They're going to go after Sean Hannity.
They're going to get us all when they make their move.
This is the big move.
They're coming for everybody.
You're not going to order a bunch of dirty anti-fascum bags.
They're not going to be able to do that.
No.
Folks, it's like pheromones.
You know how most insects attack?
If they're swarming insects, it's pheromones.
Fire ants climb up your leg, a couple hundred of them get all of your body, and then one
fires first, and then they all start stinging.
It's why you get hit with one fire ant, suddenly a bunch are stinging you because that's what
they do.
And see, that's how they're command and controlled.
Once they go out, it's similar to pheromones, and once they activate, then they've got everybody
souped up and ready who aren't even in cells.
They just watch all the TV, all the movies.
Their identity isn't bringing down America.
They really think we've got a Nazi president.
They really believe all this crap.
And so, boom, once it starts, then, they've all been told what to do.
Target the Trump supporters.
Target them all.
They're Nazis.
You've got to get in their face.
You've got to beat them.
You've got to shoot them.
You've got to kill them.
And just understand, you may not think you're even a target.
When they launch, they're going to be waiting outside your house when you walk out to carry
the trash out, and they're going to shoot you.
They're all at the gun shops here in Austin buying guns with psycholux in their eyes.
They're coming.
They're coming.
These are the weak-minded devil worshiper types that they can program and control who
believe that they're being authorized by the establishment to have their purge of America.
That's why they put a movie out where the KKK is purging black people in the first purge,
because it's always the opposite.
It's going to try to be a race war to get white people.
That's the big socialist communist cover for it.
Giant immigrant invasions, race war preparation, all of this.
But the purge will be against the republic and against the engine of wealth that might
actually be able to save the world.
They don't want life and sense and technology.
They don't want you to have any of that, and now the arrest was made yesterday.
It wasn't even the news.
I told you it was coming.
This man was arrested reportedly planning.
They told the undercover people all of it.
He was planning to bomb Portland.
That's a separate article.
Where's my article?
Here it is.
Man arrested for reportedly planning July 4 terror attack in Cleveland.
Federal authorities have arrested a man who allegedly planned a terror-style attack in
downtown Cleveland July 4, the FBI said that Adur Raheem Raheek was taken into custody
Sunday around 10 a.m. on accusations of attempting to provide material support to a foreign terror
group.
He talked about wanting to target people watching fireworks over downtown Cleveland.
Now, it's such an attorney, Justin Herdman said, and then it goes on from there, what
he was planning to do with bombs and the rest of it.
He wanted to bomb the floor that you'll operate.
Now let's say this guy was just a loon.
The point is, is this is a loon shooting his mouth off.
This is the crescendo they're building towards, and I'm saying people should be ready and
aware.
You got Michael Moore saying, surround the Capitol, rise up against Trump.
His supporters are Nazis.
It's time to get aggressive.
Now let's put that back up on screen from USA Today.
Man who planned a alleged attack on Cleveland wanted to give explosive filled cars to military
police children.
See, I can't even hype it up enough for it to match reality how psychotic this is.
Wants to blow up people's kids.
What a little jihadi.
So we've got the press conference.
I want to open the phones up.
I want to take your calls.
We're going to have some of the witnesses on that were there when the antifa attacked
in Portland.
The police reports, I have them admit that they attacked, but the media calls it a riot.
It's all coming up.
Please, briefly, don't forget, we have our yearly July 4th sales that are amongst some
of the best we do.
We've got some products that we're low and about to sell out that we got emergency smaller
shipments of because they usually have a little bit of an extra overrun at the laboratories
where we make these.
So Brain Force Plus is still at 50% off with free shipping, part of the July 4th Super
Sales Second American Revolution for the July, because we're going to launch the Second
American Revolution culturally and economically and civilly, which we're doing, or they're
going to have their new revolution against us.
This is the crossroads.
Survival Shield X2, 40% off, low stock, but still has free shipping.
It's all free shipping.
Knockout, sleep aid, 1776, and free shipping.
That's almost a lost leader.
Silver Bullet Colloidal Silver, 995, and free shipping.
We've never gone that low.
Super Mill Vitality, 50% off with free shipping, low stock, DNA 4, 50% off with free shipping.
The real Red Pill Plus, now with energy, 50% off free shipping.
Super Mill Vitality, 50% off free shipping, all Super Blue product, toothpaste, and mouth
wash.
Colloidal Silver, 994 to 5, fluoride free, 50% off with free shipping.
Electropure Breeze, $100 off with free shipping.
That is unprecedented.
No excuse not to support the InfoWare and get great products.
InfoWareStore.com, or you might as well be helping George Soros gut your family.
Years ago, InfoWare's life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWareStore.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWare.com, when you spread the videos,
that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWare.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
So now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward
slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Well, I think I see another side, maybe Mr. Everlight that shines, and I look over now,
and I still belong to no one else.
The big mega banks want monopolies.
The Islamists want jihadi control.
The collapsing third world countries just want a future, but they're being used as political
weapons to destroy prosperity and sink the social safety net just as the socialists admitted
they wanted to do in Cloward and Piven because they can't compete with free market.
They want to break it.
Just like Bill Maher in a moment of rare honesty said, I hope you commit suicide.
I hate America.
I hate the American people.
Remember I can play the club and I want to bankrupt the economy to hurt Trump.
That's what he said the last few years.
Two weeks ago, he said, I hope the economy implodes to hurt Trump.
A year before that, he said, I want suicide.
I want death.
I hate the population.
I hate America.
Look it up.
Listen, these are monstrous people who can't even hide their disdain for you.
And now they're launching a world government takedown plan collapsing the first world with
giant third world population surging in from countries they have imploded.
It's an official UN plan.
They've elected a open socialist slash communist in Mexico who says invade America as part
of this global order.
This is the plan.
This is the program.
And it's here and I laid it all out earlier today in great detail.
So you ignore this information at your peril.
That's why they're trying to shut us down.
That's why they're coming after info wars because they know we're aware of the larger
combination of evil that the globalists are using for total takeover.
But we can stop it together.
Doesn't mean America is perfect.
Doesn't mean we're offering some utopia, but it means that we're more awake than the
minions of the globalist are.
We've got to reach out to them and inform them.
Now when we come back, I'm going to give the number out.
I'm going to hit a bunch of other news I haven't gotten to, but I want to speak to you specifically
about.
I told you that they were trying to start a civil war.
Now it's here.
You can see the tea leaves.
They're going to ramp this thing up to the summer into the fall to remove Trump.
It's all being announced.
Mueller is now targeting the NRA.
It's being reported.
Of course, they're going after everything.
They're not just going to take out Trump if they're successful.
And you've got Antifa out attacking people, and then the media defends it like it's a
good thing.
We've got insane things going on, and now we've got a reported Islamist arrested who
was planning to bomb the families of military men and women.
That's incredible.
So I want to take your calls specifically to talk about this and the folks that want
to go out and fight Antifa, the Patriots, a lot of them are nice folks.
They see it kind of as larping live action role play, but for real, I wouldn't be part
of this.
I know you want to go out and beat up some Antifa.
They're just hired actors.
Just in the George Soros documents, who are real communists and real professors and real
methods in many cases, but they are hired actors, and they even work with local police
in blue cities.
We got the documents, remember earlier this year, and put them on screen if you want,
to go out and attack in certain areas in certain ways and even be able to attack the police
to try to get other people that show up to riot and to start burning down buildings to
have a real trigger.
So here it is, documents to tell plan for civil unrest and martial law in Baltimore what
Soros and Democrats were planning.
And it describes them as actors, and they go and they train and they have a continuum
of what they're going to do.
So they always do it in blue cities because they're safe there.
You don't think these leftist cowards are doing anything real to you?
No, no, no.
They're the cover for the real killers.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center.
It's Alex Jones.
We're back live, ladies and gentlemen.
We're broadcasting worldwide.
I'm Alex Jones, your host.
The globalists are launching their operations of evil, trying to collapse borders, trying
to bring the UN to stabilize countries once they collapse.
This is in Reuters.
This is in AP.
Socialists are being put in charge of Mexico and New York City.
They are going ahead with their plan, and now a radical Islamist was arrested reportedly
planning to bomb the Fourth of July parade in Cleveland, planning to target military
men and women's families.
Man who planned alleged attack on Cleveland wanted to give explosive filled cars, little
toy cars, to military children.
You heard me right.
This is the type, because the left always wants to suicide bomb kids, abort kids, dumb
kids down, give them deadly vaccines, but then tell us we're bad if people are unaccompanied
coming over the border if we put them in a secure location in a protected shelter.
It's amazing.
Here's part of the press conference with the police this morning in Cleveland, Ohio.
We're here today to announce the arrest of Demetrius Nathaniel Pitts, also known as Abdu'r-Reheem-Refique.
This has been charged in a federal complaint with attempting to provide material support
to a foreign terrorist organization.
Pitts was placed into custody yesterday, Sunday, July 1 at approximately 10 a.m. by the Joint
Terrorism Task Force agents and Task Force officers.
A criminal complaint sets forth in detail the facts and circumstances of the investigation
and also the attempted materials or charge.
If you have not received a copy of that complaint, you will so at the end of the press conference.
So again, that 30-plus page complaint includes a lot of the details of this investigation,
but I think it's important to spend a few minutes and to go over some of the highlights
for you.
So, in 2017, the FBI received reporting that Pitts was making statements, espousing his
support for Al Qaeda, and also his actions against particular United States entities
as violent intentions, including the armed forces.
And as we typically do when we receive this information, we do what?
We open an investigation.
We check it out.
And that's exactly what we did here.
It was initially opened out of our Cincinnati Field Office because Pitts resided in the
Southern District of Ohio.
And it was also worked in coordination with the United States Attorney's Office in the
Southern District of Ohio.
So Pitts's statements of violent intentions continue to cause concern during the investigation
as he was expressed a willingness to conduct a U.S.-based attack and also his desire and
wanting to join a foreign terrorist organization.
His Facebook posts, quite frankly, were disturbing.
They included verbiage that had words of the effect.
We as a Muslim need to start training like this every day.
We need to know how to shoot guns, throw hand grenades, hand-to-hand combat.
An FBI undercover agent was introduced to Pitts in an effort to further determine whether
Pitts was in fact a threat to national security.
His extensive criminal history, including felonious assault, domestic violence, aggravated
robbery, and carrying a concealed weapon, furthered our reason for concern.
In May, Pitts relocated to the Cleveland area, and the office here in the JTTF picked up
the investigation.
Over the next several weeks, Pitts continued to express his radical ideology and his desire
to commit violence against the United States.
Just last week, during an in-person meeting with our undercover agent, Pitts suggested
words of the effect.
I did tell myself that there, their holiday is coming up, the 4th of July, Independence
Day.
What would, what would hit them in the poor?
Blow up, have a bomb, blow up at the 4th of July parade.
During communications with the undercover agent, Pitts indicated he would travel downtown and
conduct reconnaissance of Voynvich Park and the U.S. Coast Guard Station for the purpose
of taking photographs and videotape footage.
He further, the day, or thereafter, walked downtown, all over the downtown, and surveilled
these area, these entities, Voynvich Park and the U.S. Coast Guard Station, in addition
to other locations that had previously been discussed.
Additional conversations with extremely concerning statements of intentions made by Pitts are
specified in the federal complaint, and they include topics such as hatred for the military,
wanting to chop off heads and hands, and disposing of bodies.
A final meeting occurred on Sunday morning, as I mentioned yesterday, where the undercover
and Mr. Pitts had a lengthy conversation.
Pitts, again, on his own, expressed his allegiance to Al Qaeda, his desire to participate in a
terror attack on July 4th in Cleveland, Ohio, his desire to kill military personnel and
their families, his desire to kill federal and local agents, and his desire to commit
a future attack at a date to be determined in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, an area he
once resided.
At the conclusion of the meeting, Mr. Pitts was arrested, and he will be appearing before
U.S. magistrate later today.
I think everyone in the room knows this, but this case illustrates that law enforcement,
of course, cannot sit back, in this case, wait for Mr. Pitts to commit a violent act.
We don't have the luxury of hoping that an individual decides not to harm someone or
get others to act, especially when his continued repeated intentions were to do just that.
The Joint Terrorism Task Force, the city, the partners are working every day to detect,
deter, and prevent terrorist attacks.
That is, by far, our collective number one priority to keep the public safe from all
known threats.
So we'd like just to take a minute to commend the men and women and some of which are represented
over there, and again, there's many in this room, behind the cameras, that are every bit
as critical to the work we do each and every day.
We also had assistance from the Maple Heights and Garfield Heights Police Department and
other, of course, eight and other entities, just their hard work, dogged determination
throughout the last year and a half.
And it's what they do each and every day, behind the scenes, to try to protect us all.
This investigation also, we collectively believe, demonstrates that commitment, but also underscores
the importance of differentiating between lawful, peaceful exercise of First Amendment
rights, rights that we all cherish, and criminal acts and violent desires of a select few,
such as Mr. Pitts, who seek to do our community and our country harm.
Lastly, I would just like to give a shout out and thank the public.
The public, as you'll see in the complaint, provided at least a piece of information that
further this investigation.
Just further illustrates how critical that is.
All the partners up here, I know Chief Williams will echo this in a second, in Colonel Pride
and others.
It is the relationship with the public, it's relying on information each and every day
that allows us to do our job.
I think this case also illustrates that partnership, not just among the agencies here, but between
the public and between the media as well.
So this guy was telling people for over a year how he was planning to blow up before
the July parade coming up, and how he was planning and how he wanted to give toy cars
with explosives and its children.
Now whether he should be in a mental institution or prison, if he did it, which looks like he
did, is up to be determined.
The point is this atmosphere where there are so many cases of calling for violence, so
many cases for killing ICE members or firebombing their locations or killing police and CNN
during the whole Black Lives Matter thing, remember, NMS NBC, they would have random
cops in a whole other jurisdiction, a whole other state, would get shot in the back while
changing a tire, pumping gas, responding to an event, and then the media would say, well,
the police need to clean up their act, you know, it's the police and these shootings
that are causing the public to be angry.
So if you really thought a cop shot somebody wrong, and in most cases they hadn't, just
a fact, we looked at them all in detail, then you go after that person.
And still that's not through the courts, but there's some logic at least, if you think
somebody shot your son in the back and killed him for no reason and the justice didn't happen,
then you go after him, I'm not saying do that.
But you go to like another state and shoot some random cop pumping gas because some other
cop did something you didn't like, that's leftist mental illness craziness.
But the bigger issue is, why was CNN and others promoting it saying you got what you
deserve?
Because they're trying to foment a violent revolution to bring the country down so they
can take over because they're pissed America's coming back.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at Heart and Body Extract.
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it, check out all of the success stories at HVextract.com
or to order call 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, HVextract.com, don't risk it when you can
take charge of it.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price, the Fox Carambit knife, finally available
in the U.S. The Fox Carambit knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun
for utility, for defense, and for way less than other knives of this caliber.
Go to TheUltimateKnife.com, truly the best knife you will ever own and only available
at TheUltimateKnife.com, use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping, get TheUltimate
Knife at TheUltimatePrice at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Tired of being censored by Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Patreon, well now you don't have
to be.
OneWay.com is the free speech and human friendly social network built just for you.
Stop feeding the beast, every post you make on those evil anti-human, anti-American perverted
sites helps them destroy our families, our country, and our souls.
Join OneWay today and take back your liberty.
Your free speech alternative is waiting for you at OneWay.com, OneWay.com.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living water bottle, it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and
saving you money. Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon bottle increases
the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost energy.
The Dillon bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
This 4th of July is special, everybody can see it, they can feel it.
The globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their tyranny, and America, yet
again, is at the heart of the resistance to the globalists.
That's why this 4th of July I'm asking all of our great supporters to think about
M4 Wars now more than ever, and what would the world be like if M4 Wars wasn't there
resisting the globalists?
What would have happened if you hadn't supported M4 Wars?
We would not be having the victories we have today, so yes, a lot of good things are happening,
but the enemy is striking back, so please, think about M4 Wars and funding our operation
while you get great products at the same time on this 4th of July that's so historic.
We have record sales going on right now, free shipping on hundreds of different items,
more than 20 items are 50% off like Rain Force Plus, X2 is 40% off, knockout sleep age 1776,
Silver Bullets, 995 colletal silver, and free shipping, you can't beat that.
This 4th of July is special, and our sales are special to match it.
M4WarsStore.com
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
And more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Dr. Martin Luther King has been shot to death in Memphis, Tennessee.
JFK was shot from the back and the front.
It was almost a district where a planned imposition hit just Pan King.
He took the babies out of the incubators, and left the children to die on the cold spot.
I think this is a national security imperative.
We have clear things that we do not understand how they work, operating in areas that we
can't control.
USA, is this global governance at last?
Is it one world?
The central bank has been charged.
Israel claims the attack was accidental.
Some former U.S. naval officers say it was on purpose.
They describe the day of action as part of a continuing cover-up.
Russian intelligence compiled a dossier on Mr. Trump during visits to Moscow.
Russian, stop!
Denied everything.
He called it all fake news.
And he accused CNN of being fake news.
This is a national emergency.
If they kill Trump or remove Trump, it will cause a massive civil war in this country.
This is a female high-level emergency.
We are at war with Russia.
Are you aware that Mr. Stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with
Julian Assange in which weeks?
The White House and the president are citing info wars.
If they can shut us down, you're next.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
One thing is for certain, Austin, Texas is a liberal city.
The liberals came out in a giant blue wave crashing on the steps of the Texas Capitol
to express their skewed understanding of the Trump administration's zero-tolerance stance
on our southern border.
Their demands, open borders, the abolishment of ICE, and Donald Trump's arrest and or resignation.
Not many understood the real dangers their rhetoric would unleash on their first world comfort zone.
This is the country that we want to be a part of.
We don't want the type of country that he's trying to create.
We're something more than this.
This country was made by immigrants, built on immigrants.
We stand for accepting people and enriching our country through their cultures and their strength in coming together.
There's not a single thing that Donald Trump and his administration does to uphold that.
Every 15 minutes, a Mexican dies.
130 politicians have been killed in Mexico.
This year alone, there's an election tomorrow.
In Obrador, it's the favorite win.
Obrador is the leftist who will turn back the policies of Nieto,
who had actually doubled his deportation of migrants.
Obrador is going to actually turn that around and open the border even more.
Do you agree with that policy?
Open the Mexico-Texas border?
Yes. When you get closer to the border, you find people that live on the border
that want more border protection because their lives are at risk.
I wish that I had more knowledge to make an informed statement,
but I don't know enough about the politicians who are running for the election tomorrow.
I know a little bit about the border towns.
I've been back and forth in Brownsville, Madam Morris and the likes.
The whole economy down there depends on it.
Everybody there is very civil and very respectful of each other,
and that part of Texas would not really survive or exist
if it wasn't for the Mexican people on the other side of the border crossing.
My great-grandmother and my grandmother grew up right alongside the river,
and what my grandmother would tell me was when she was young,
people would come up and they would give them food and feed them,
give them some water, let them sit in the shade for a little bit,
and then they'd send them on their way.
Now, the same people that live down there on that border,
they say it's a different type of people that are coming.
It's a different generation that's coming through.
Now, when they see people walking up the gravel road,
they go inside, they shutter the windows, and they lock the doors,
and they just don't want any part of it,
not because of some sense of country or whatever the case may be.
It's a sense of personal safety.
These ranchers and farmers and the citizens that live in these vulnerable areas
are afraid to leave their homes.
In fact, they'd be breaking into Scott Arena, for example.
I'll speak on his behalf.
He's been broken in four or five times.
One time, holding the door closed while they're trying to break in.
Growing up in the valley, we spent a great deal of time on the river.
You go down, you ski, you swim, you picnic, you camp out.
People had cabins, people had trailers down there that they kept.
It was a very relaxed atmosphere.
If you're down the river right now, you will see it's all gone.
No one does any of that anymore. No one.
It took a survivor of the great African War from the Democratic Republic of the Congo
to shed some light on the importance of border restrictions.
You know, as a country, you can just say, like, open, you know,
I feel like there must be rules, there must be regulation,
there must be a process of how people can get in a country.
In a very country that is organized and institutions should be
a well-regulated process of how people get in a country.
But the way this current situation is handled, the situation is not good way.
There must be another good way.
Meanwhile, in Portland, Oregon, PDX Mike Bivens, who captured some amazing video,
wrote on Twitter,
I've left the area around the Justice Center that please close.
I remember Patriot prayers, Joe Gibson referring to this event on his Facebook,
talks as a campaign event.
I wonder how many other candidates for U.S. Senate have had their rally canceled
and declared a riot.
As Patriot's prayer and counter protesters antifa clashed in downtown Portland.
Thankfully, there were very little signs of antifa at this rally
filled with Democrats and socialists.
Do you think these people are aware of what's really happening on the border?
Well, that remains to be said.
I just saw a sign that said also immigrants, Ted Cruz, Melania Trump,
Trump's second wife, Trump's mom.
I believe, if not all of them, most of them were legal immigrants.
So I think there's kind of a disconnect there.
So legal and illegal and we need to distinguish.
But I think there is a message to be told.
Just not sure the disconnect.
I'm not sure if many people know that Trump signed an executive order
to not have family separated.
But I don't think there's a lack of concern of the routine way of families here in America.
There's almost 500,000 children go missing a year.
CPS rips families apart all the time.
There's a recent case where seven children were ripped away from their parents by CPS
simply because they were homeschooled.
Do you see any concern by the left for those issues of your fellow citizens?
Honestly, I personally have not seen any concern from very many people at all about that.
CPS is a, I've never really known it to be a legitimate organization.
They're in the business of breaking up families.
They need a serious revamping.
That's the kind of agency that needs to be done away with, in my opinion.
Along with an absence of blame for the drug cartels,
totalitarian smuggling operation feeding the unfortunate need to separate children at the border.
I live in South America, where we see firsthand the implications of the drug war.
Mexico has been hit horribly, Central America and Mexico have been hit horribly,
but it's all for the demand of drugs that's in the United States.
I think it's just a little hypocritical and blind to go criticizing other countries
in which their problems exist mostly because of the demand that we have in our country for what they have.
Where is the admittance of responsibility from the country south of our border?
Apparently, everything is the fault of the US and its president.
Even the massive third world issues of another...
Now there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory that absorbs 40 times better.
Yes, nanocurcumin plus from One Planet Nutrition contains smaller particle size
that allows absorption over 40 times better into your bloodstream.
Nanocurcumin plus may also help reduce pain and inflammation, detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes.
Nanocurcumin plus is now on sale at OnePlanetNutrition.com.
A promo code GCN for your special discount at OnePlanetNutrition.com.
The next generation of nutritional supplementation.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
For daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo.
This is the heart of 1776.
Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House.
Huge nationwide protests erupted once again on President Donald Trump's second weekend in office.
It's never time to fight us! You've got to fight us!
When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.
When America is united, America is totally unstoppable.
Donald Trump is now president at the United States.
And most importantly, we will be protected by God.
From the front lines of the info wheel, it's Alex Jones.
You've got to stop! You've got to stop!
Oh my goodness, poor white people, please almost stop.
I was told that Trump would never win office.
And I told you that was a lie. I told you it was fake polls.
And then I was told over and over again he'd be removed.
He'd never be seated as president. They would take the delegates.
And as soon as that failed, even though they'd been all over the news promoting it,
oh actually, we never said we were going to keep Trump from having his delegates seated.
And the Nancy Pelosi's daughter went on TV and called for my arrest on Fox News
and made up lies about me that I threatened her.
How do you threaten the dead dog, a rotting soulless corpse?
Don't. They have the usual suspects, two different former CIA directors,
coming out over the weekend and saying,
we're going to call for the 25th Amendment to be implemented to unseat the president
for dereliction of duty and incompetence and mental illness.
The mentally ill person that never ran for office and beat you
and that turned the economy around and did all this and got peace deals, right?
There's the article from The Hill, ex-CIA chief calls on White House cabinet
to revolt against Trump and remove him from office.
Insurrection by GOP leadership inner circle necessary to stop president, he says.
And who is he? He's the Wahhabist, Brennanite, who in college admitted he was part of the Communist Party.
The CIA said, well, my God, let's put you at the top.
He's got clapper behind him, calls the same garbage and other former CIA directors as well.
And they want the 25th Amendment implemented to remove him from office
and they want it done now, post-ase.
They want it done as soon as possible.
And but here's the thing, they've been pushing this.
So the FBI people, I'm going to tell you are ticked and they're going to be saying,
I guarantee it, you think you can push us off this because you can try to intimidate the director.
You better think again, Mr. President, you've been around for 13 months.
We've been around since 1908. I know how this game is going to be played.
We're going to win.
I'm reading it in the Financial Times of London, New Yorker magazine, New York Times, Atlantic Monthly.
These are establishment publications.
They're like, we're ending the family.
We're going to savage the U.S. China has 97% of the rare earth men rules. The U.S. will never come back.
Lloyd Blank five before he got kicked out of Goldman Sachs is like, I was just in China.
They've got 10 times infrastructure Trump.
You'll never bring America back.
These are in tweets.
They're like, God, these people like breathlessly.
We'll get you people.
And it's like, what did we do to you?
But America is the big enchilada.
It had half the wealth in 1955.
So they parlayed it into global corporate power.
So if you're going to screw America over, why not get in a culture of Haiti?
They're not like, wow, we're bleeding the country dry.
It was a great beautiful lady, but we're sacrificing her for our global power.
No, they're too big a coward to admit they're doing it.
So they decide to hate it.
And that's what I want you to understand.
Trump doesn't hate America.
And so he's like, you see these speeches and these are real numbers.
You've seen them.
They don't even debate these.
He's like, Canada has a 270% dairy tax and we have zero.
Trump goes, okay, I'll put 100% on them.
And they go, oh my God, you backward hateful person.
He's like, wait, you've got a 270.
270.
You'll still have a hundred.
I mean, if anything, Trump's being too soft, but he knows it could destabilize things.
Hey, China, you got a $900 billion trade deficit.
We'll do 50 billion.
Just pay it and promises for taking some of our cars and I'll leave you alone.
And China goes trade war.
Trump goes, okay, 200 billion.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Federal Bureau of Investigation embarrassment James Comey took his treason toward Ireland in full anti-Trump bias claiming he was so ashamed of current U.S. immigration policies that he considered telling Irish customs officials that he was Canadian when he arrived.
Harmless rhetoric or another slap in America's face.
He was blaming policies from a previous administration that he was a part of the thought that he is now responsible for keeping America safe.
And yet when you use a word like infested with immigrants, that's not a good sign.
It's not who we are.
And the good news is we know that about ourselves.
I think our British colleagues know it about us.
We're better than that.
And no president in a four-year term or an eight-year term can essentially change America.
That doesn't mean it's not painful and concerning in the short term.
Earlier this week, clearly bias and treasonous FBI agent Peter Strzok was removed from his office and placed under investigation by the FBI's Office of Professional Responsibility.
As the Justice Department revealed in Inspector General Horowitz's IG report that Strzok and four other FBI employees sent hostile anti-Trump messages using taxpayer-funded bureau devices, a violation of FBI rules.
This text from Peter Strzok, who basically says, you know, he says to his girlfriend, we will stop it.
And this text happened on August 8th of 2016.
Four days later, we get the other text that says we need an insurance policy.
We've had the insurance policy text for months, and yet we're just getting this one now.
But when the FBI agent says he's going to stop it, that sounds like collusion at the highest level and an attempt to improperly interfere with a legitimate election.
Congress is entitled to know everything about that in real time.
But don't count your chickens just yet.
Inspector General Horowitz confirmed that he is investigating if Strzok's anti-Trump bias played a role in the origins of the FBI's Russia investigation.
And further evidence regarding gifts the FBI agents received from reporters has yet to be completely revealed.
As detailed in our report, we found that the inappropriate political messages we uncovered cast a cloud over the mid-year investigation,
so doubt about the credibility of the FBI's handling of it, and impacted the reputation of the FBI.
We found the implication that senior FBI employees would be willing to take official action to impact a presidential candidate's electoral prospects,
to be deeply troubling and antithetical to the core values of the FBI and the Justice Department.
And also, the Hill Report's Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley wants to subpoena former FBI Director James Comey and Loretta Lynch,
who served as Attorney General in the Obama administration.
This is the second time since he was fired that Mr. Comey refused an invitation to testify here voluntarily.
He has time for book tours and television interviews, but apparently no time to assist this committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the Justice Department.
Ms. Lynch also chose not to show up. The need for transparency does not end when senior officials are fired or quit.
If the IG report were to be taken seriously by the country club of back scratchers in the district of criminals,
not only would Hillary be finally brought front and center to answer to her lacky James Comey's watered-down bungling of her treasonous crimes against national security,
but Obama himself, or another senior official as Comey disguised him, would be entangled in Hillary's still unresolved email scandal,
as Obama absolutely improperly communicated on an illicit email server.
Again, all of this due to Hillary's unresolved email scandal, a long-suffering scandal so blatantly criminal that the very investigation into it is under investigation.
John Baum reporting for Infowars.com.
To think about Infowars now more than ever, and what would the world be like if Infowars wasn't there resisting the globalist?
What would have happened if you hadn't supported Infowars? We would not be having the victories we have today.
So yes, a lot of good things are happening, but the enemy is striking back.
So please, think about Infowars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time on the Fourth of June Live that's so historic.
We have record sales going on right now, free shipping on hundreds of different items, more than 20 items are 50% off like BrainForce Plus, X2 is 40% off,
Knockout Sleep Aid 1776, Silver Bullets 9.95 little silver, and free shipping, you can't beat that.
This Fourth of July is special, and our sales are special to match it. InfowarsStore.com.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion,
uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high-quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today,
available at Infowarsstore.com.
After 4 o'clock Central Time on Saturday, June 30th, 2018, this is a very short emergency live transmission to everybody out there watching.
The globalist, the multinational corporations, the Chinese communists that fund them,
they believe that 2018, July 4th, will be the final July 4th.
Rob Reiner has called it the final battle of the Civil War.
Michael Moore last night on Bill Maher called Trump the last American president.
This is all very open. They are taking over the U.S.
They are creating the racial division. They are creating the sexual division.
They are creating all of the admitted crises in this country in their own admissions in WikiLeaks.
And they are horrified to see the economy coming back in, all these good things happening.
So they are going to throw their full force against America in an attempt to encircle Congress with a million people
to begin violent actions to run the patriots in D.C. out of the swamp so they can reestablish it.
This has all been announced at an earlier report breaking it down.
They believe that they are cornered. They know humanity is waking up.
And so they are going to launch their full assault of violence and intimidation and terrorist attacks, I believe, in this country.
They've got all the Democratic Party-talking heads saying attack Trump supporters, bully him, kick him out of restaurants, hashtag 100 Republicans,
go after Congressmen's Colleges, kidnap Baron Trump, raping.
That's Peter Fonda, Peter Fonda, Kuzak, firebomb the ICE facilities.
They are just following Obama's policy. They are making their move.
And so we have to raise the alarm while they are on their own programs like Bill Maher and CNN, the rest of it, energizing their people to make the move.
We have to raise the alarm that they know America is back from the dead and they want this July 4th to signify when they are going to launch their counter-offensive and finally finish us.
This July 4th is not about hedonism, it's not about hamburgers, it's not about being on the lake. God knows I love that.
It is about, that's the spoils of free market, it's about saying communism and socialism and all this has failed.
And what these big megabanks are pushing is about monopolies.
And those of you that have signed up against Info Wars, against Trump, against America, against our resurgence, against our rebirth, are idiots, useful idiots, to use the linen term, of the globalists.
Why would you sign on against free market when you know communism and socialism doesn't work?
Just like Bernie Sanders said during the campaign, things that weren't popular a few years ago, like socialism and communism, are now popular.
Only because you've got idiots never raised under it.
It's like, can't say it's now popular again. Did I take over colleges and bankrupt them? Do I have three one million dollar houses? Do I drive on a thousand dollar cars? Yes, I do.
But I rule you the cattle. You are my slave. I am Bernie Sanders.
And you go from him right up the chain of crap. The big billionaires want monopolies. They want control.
So they want this to be America's last July 4th.
Because they realize it's the birth of the new America. It's the resurgence of the Renaissance. They're in full crisis mode.
And so going into the new Supreme Court nominee, going into the midterms, going into the most important election in history, because getting Trump in was only a beachhead.
This 2018 midterm is for all the marbles. And they're going to be engaged in election fraud.
They're going to have people vote the names of dead people. They're going to have illegal aliens voting as the Democrats admit.
And they're going to be riding on the streets. They're going to be up there going, oh, all you Trump supporters hurt the babies.
You made Latin America collapse. You made millions come up here.
And oh my God, if you stop anybody and check who they are coming out of a desert wasteland, you're a Nazi. This is a joke.
And when you see the weak-minded people, they've got lined up to support them and to chant.
They're all professors or government workers or little scared leftists that bought into the fact that they were on the winning team and they were the cool group.
And they were, they ran everything and they were going to teach flyover country and Christians and veterans and everybody.
They were going to, they were the ruling class. These people don't believe the dream of human empowerment.
They believe in China and it's enslaved another own population. They believe authoritarianism.
They believe they go kiss the ass of the globalists. They are in power.
I'm telling you this July 4th is the launch of the new human revolution that America was all about 1776 worldwide.
Just as I told you, Trump would win. Just as I told you so many other things for anybody else did.
I'm telling you, if we take destiny in our hands, this isn't the death of America.
This new July 4th, 2018, if we are successful, and I believe we will be, is going to be seen as the rebirth of America in 1776 part two.
242 years later, if we're successful, they're going to look back on this time on when the dream that was never fully realized,
but the idea that created more wealth, more technology than all of their countries combined,
that the true belief in not having feudalism but in power humanity went to the next level.
They will look back when we are colonizing foreign stars, when we have interstellar travel.
That's far away. The technology we've gone from here to there the last 6,000 years is that big a change.
Going interstellar, life extension, godlike power, if we have the intellect and soul to control it, is that much more.
We're 20 feet from the finish line. The Satanists that wanted to control it, that were threatened by it, they don't know what to do.
They've already seen Trump go through the finish line. They've already seen many of you go through the finish line.
I've gone through the finish line. We're on the other side, but we've got to get everybody that's in deep water through.
And it's not some utopia, it's real human empowerment. So this new July 4th, 2018, infinity, it's a jump gate.
It's the future. 2018, 2018 is critical that we've been given the chance.
We've been shown how freedom creates amazing results immediately with limited success.
We've barely gotten our nodes into the power structure and it's like turning around right away and the enemy can feel it.
So if we can just get to the next level, if we can just get to the next level, it's going to be even easier.
And then it's just dealing with all the power. What are you going to do when you live to 500 and beyond?
What are you going to do? The globalists don't think you deserve this. They look at you and think you're ugly and dumb,
because they've helped you be ugly and dumb and me too, but they're even worse than us.
So the establishment doesn't believe you deserve this.
I do, Trump does, show you have to use free will. We're not Satanists. We're all about free will.
You have to take the birthright. You have to do it. I don't care if you've got brown skin or black skin or pink skin like I got.
I don't care because I'm not white. I'm actually going to red. I just want to be an attorney with you and I want to be your friend.
There's unlimited resources next level, next level. It's non-zero some game. It's all there, but you have to accept that we're at the
crossroads of the end of America, the death of America, the last Fourth of July or a charity, because the Satanists and the globalists
and they're a walled off tomb, they're oblivion or the future, but you've got to act like a visionary.
You've got to believe, you've got to go against the censors and the bots that make you feel bad when you share links or you speak out.
It's all social engineering. That means nothing. You want to be under attack. You want to be over the target. You want to be in that position.
This July 4th is the relaunch of human destiny. It's 1776. It's the Renaissance worldwide.
It is the big contention. It's the human spirit in a coma for decades, waking up for the challenge.
And I know at a gut level, many of us will make it through this. Some of you won't. So let's spend our time and energy remembering where we've been,
how far our ancestors have come and where we are now, looking to the future, not just thinking about ourselves because you think like,
oh, I'm greedy. I'm about myself. No, no. That actually thinking about yourself is realizing the great past you've had, the present and the future.
I want to show one thing before we end this transmission. Let me tell you where you're going.
You're either going to end right now and just be an animal or you're going to go here.
You're going to go into infinity. It doesn't ever end. This is what the enemy fears.
This is what they don't like. Union, simplicity, complexity, symbiotic. This is a nonzero sum game.
There's not a pizza. And this is all we share.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido,
workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it,
this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain. It's for sports. It's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility,
joint function, immune system, and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients,
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The universe is life and unlimited potential, not just in the trillions of galaxies chronicled, but beyond that.
We can go up, we can go down.
That's the whole future right there. And these assholes want to control you.
So, I say this is the most important date since July 4, 1776, and I know it is. And all the parties are lined up and the globalists and their minions and their slaves want a civil war and want a physical war.
We're already ready for that. But we want you to rather join us in the compendium of the future, which many of you have done.
But they want this to be our last July 4th. And I say it will be their last July 4th.
All right, great job crew. That's it for this transmission. Some key videos coming up right now. They don't want you to see.
Please share this live video against the censors. It is an act of resistance in a world of universal deceit.
But the good news is, this is just one world. This is just the embryonic level.
Through that gate, whether it be a black hole or a planet or a dimension, through that point, everything else is possible.
All right, I'll see you back live tomorrow at 4 p.m. Central on Sunday Transmission.
Donald Trump wins the presidency, so help me God.
They say he's killing America.
There will be a vote. They say he's a racist.
This was a white lash and a fascist. Who are the real racists?
Northern Democrats had conspired together with Southern Democrats to take away the fruit of other people's labor.
Who are the real fascists?
The only espouse democracy!
Both Mussolini and Hitler set up and ran welfare services.
This was done by the Duke Gooders, the Liberals, the people who wanted to improve society.
Which party attacks off free speech?
How dare you speak against the bill!
On religious liberty and our personal safety.
A nation dies when its people are not free.
We too must fight for freedom, regardless of the price we pay.
An end in terror is preferable to a terror with no end.
The stakes could not be higher. We're talking about America, the greatest nation on earth.
Lincoln saved America for the first time.
It's now up to us to save America a second time.
A lot of his supporters believe that we are the enemy of the American people.
And that is really, really an awful situation. We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people.
We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people. We love the American people.
We love the American people.
They came in peace.
We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people.
This is CNN.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater.
And we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles.
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We've got it.
Thank you for coming to you.
Waging War on Corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Okay, you're probably not expecting somebody else in the chair today.
As you might have surmised if you're a regular watcher or listener that was a pre-recorded Alex,
he has left the building and by the miracle of modern technology,
I'm now on camera in your home or on your device.
I'm Matt Bracken and I'll be doing this hour and the next hour.
This is fairly short notice and we'll be taking lots of calls and talking about the antifa riots
slash protests in Portland and what the left is gearing up for really across the country
and getting into the larger picture of what this all means.
As Alex has been saying, this is desperation by the left.
I think that they know that they have to go for broke.
The midterms are probably going to be a red wave, not a blue wave.
That means another Supreme Court justice that's a constitutionalist and not a communist is almost guaranteed.
And this means the window is closing on their chance to shove socialism down our throats like it or not.
So this is probably the high tide mark for progressivism in the country.
They know it and they're desperate. This is why they're calling us Nazis.
This is basically not even a dog whistle.
This is a blaring siren telling their minions to go for broke because if they can't cause anarchy in the streets
over the next six months or a year, it's game over for them.
The border will be closed. Their demographic invasion tactic is going to be stopped
and they'll never gain their power again through the ballot.
The only thing that they're going to have left is anarchy and trying to create the situation of martial law
overreaction to police state tactics.
I mean, it's not going to work, but I think that that's what they see as their only chance sort of a 1917 Russia in 2018 America,
which is an absolutely hopeless fantasy on their part.
If they tried, if they actually got this thing kicked off, all they would do is find out that there are millions and millions of Americans
that have been thinking about this and prepping for it for years now.
Stockpiling ammunition, zeroing in their rifles, making lists of people that might find themselves in trouble if there was ever a shooting war.
I actually wrote a short story a couple of years ago about this very subject called what I saw at the coup.
Actually, I even made a thing up here.
It's on my website or you can just Google it.
I wrote it during the Obama regime, but the deep state could try to still pull off something like this,
and it would probably use the camouflage of some type of a cyber war, an EMP attack, a war where our internet was taken down,
and that would be the camouflage for a purge, pulling the plug on conservatives.
I don't think that it would work and it would probably result, as in my short story, with leftists being hanged.
So it's going to be an open question whether they'll still go for this if they think that their odds of actually succeeding are low.
In the end, the elites, they really want to just preserve their status, their wealth and their power.
If they thought that supporting a coup would result in their own loss of power, maybe even loss of life,
they might decide to just trim their sales to the new reality.
The problem is once they unleash these forces at the street level, they could take on a life of their own.
What we've seen already, the Red Hen incident is to me nothing or the shouting at the cabinet members.
The real marker was the Steve Scalise shooting.
You can only imagine how many more leftists today are making the same kind of plans.
Back during the, I think it was at the inaugural, the night of the inauguration, they also caught some leftists that were trying to gas a building where conservatives were having a ball.
This is absolute terrorism. They would have said it was just going to be a stink gas.
But who knows? You get your minions to be willing to sneak into a building and put a gas into an HVAC system.
The minions might think that it's just a stink bomb, but the person providing the gas might be providing something else.
So we could rapidly get into a whole new territory here.
I often state and believe that any kind of a civil war in this country would resemble the Argentina dirty war of the 70s,
or the troubles in Northern Ireland also during the 70s, with a racial overtones similar to Rwanda, which was a tribal slaughter,
or Bosnia in the 90s, which was both religious and ethnic.
This country is not ready for any kind of a civil war because our lines are so blended.
There are no safe zones. If there's a civil war in this country, it's going to be brutal and it's going to be at the doorbell level, as Alex stated.
When you go to pick up your mail, there's going to be somebody waiting in the bushes with an AK.
That kind of the thing is going to be the hallmark of the next civil war.
So anybody that is actually promoting this is a fool because it would be a slaughter.
But this is something that the left is possibly prepared to do.
If it means that it's the only chance of regaining power and continuing their march towards international socialism, which we used to call communism.
If this is the only chance they've got to overturn the table, to throw over the table, and hope that when the lights come back on,
they're holding the guns.
But in fact, if they do manage to throw over the table, create situations of anarchy, rioting, looting in our major cities,
it might be the leftists that are wiped out.
Sometimes these communist plots don't work out the way that they think that they're going to work out.
And instead, the communists themselves are wiped out.
It's happened before in history and it could happen again.
This isn't a pushover country.
We're not disarmed and we're certainly not brainwashed anymore.
We've seen this playbook before.
So it's definitely not 1917 conditions.
The left might think that this is something that they could repeat, but in fact, it's more likely to wind up with a total wipeout of the communists and progressives.
I mean, their role playing on the street and their masks isn't going to cut it when the real fighting comes down to who has the most people with the 400-yard deer rifle.
I don't even think that many leftists even know what a 400-yard deer rifle is, much less how they would use it.
But I know for a fact that there are tens of millions on our side that not only know what a 400-yard deer rifle is,
but millions of them actually go out in the woods every fall and their game plan is to shoot a 200-pound mammal, cut it up, take it home and eat it.
So it's not a big jump to go from that to a civil war, and the left would better think long and hard before they throw this flare into the barn trying to set off a war,
because it's not going to turn out the way that they think it's going to turn out.
It's going to possibly turn out in a very ugly way, and there will be losses on both sides to be sure.
But the street thuggery isn't going to be the civil war.
The civil war is going to be fought by very many different tactics.
But I would recommend folks do read my short story, what I saw at the coup.
Because imagine during the civil war if you couldn't use an ATM, couldn't use your cell phone, couldn't use a credit card.
If you did, you'd be picked up immediately.
So it's going to be what you have in your possession at the time, and that's it.
Anyway, I recommend the book and it looks like we're going to be going to a break here in a little bit.
And after the break, we'll be taking some phone calls and we can have a nice discussion about the current demonstrations, the riots and what a civil war might look like.
So I'm Matt Bracken and we'll be back on the other side of this break.
The next generation of nutritional supplementation.
We're called 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Go Berkey.com.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault.
A miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter.
Get your bug assault today.
Not because of their intensifying censorship.
It's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos,
articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process,
with an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the real red pill,
can quickly become one of our fellow infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that real red pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com.
Okay, I'm Matt Bracken and I'm back.
In the next segment, we're going to start taking some phone calls.
I think that a lot of people want to talk about what's going on in the country
and what might be happening in the next couple of weeks and months,
leading up to the midterms, which is sort of like a waterloo for the left.
I think it is anyway.
The call-in numbers are 877-789-2539 or 877-789-ALEX, which is the same number.
As soon as we get a couple, there they go,
filling up people are quick, they've probably already got that number in.
I'm not going to talk to too many knuckleheads,
so if you want to talk about some things that I think aren't really on the topic,
it's going to be a quick call.
If it's a great call, we'll go longer.
Anyway, I obviously have been forecasting civil war conditions for a couple of years now.
This is a great country.
It's coasting on decades and generations of what our forefathers have built.
People take it for granted and they think that it's just going to continue forever.
It's a birthright.
This standard of living is just free like the air, like running water.
People don't realize that this entire social infrastructure can be destroyed rather rapidly.
People in civilized cities like Sarajevo and Yugoslavia,
they never dreamed that a couple of years after the Olympics,
the city could be torn up by artillery and sniper fire, but it happened.
You can list a lot of countries where the social infrastructure has been torched by the left.
Sometimes it just leads to a destroyed economy like Venezuela.
Sometimes it leads to hard communism like Cuba.
Sometimes in the long run, civilization wins out.
We've seen a resurgence in Eastern Europe.
What would happen in America? I don't know because our social tapestry is so complex now.
Would our civic virtues still hold out through a dirty civil war?
Would we devolve into regional warlord states?
Nobody really knows and we hope that it never happens.
Probably my main goal with even speaking about these subjects is to warn people off of it.
Our social capital that we've built up for 200 years could be wiped out,
leading us into a really terrible situation like the 30 years were in Europe.
Things we can't even imagine.
My goal here is to dissuade leftists from thinking there's a way to trigger just enough revolution
that they can somehow rise to the top of the heap.
Believe me, it won't work. It can't work.
They should be very grateful that they live in a country with the freedom to march on the streets,
wearing nice clothes with smartphones, going back to nice cars and apartments.
That can all be gone very quickly if they get what they profess to wish, which is a revolution.
It's going to turn enormously terrible for everybody.
So anyway, let's see. I see Kevin in Alaska on top.
Kevin, what have you got for me there?
Kevin, you ready?
Nope. How about Jane in Louisiana?
Jane, are you ready?
Hi there, Matt.
Is this Kevin or Jane?
Jane. Jane's in Louisiana.
Jane?
Yes, I hear you.
Hi, yeah. I was wanting to know what light do you think can be shown on what particular part
that's manipulating this to maybe kill it before it starts, kill it before the real flood gets shed,
because I'm really aboard the whole love train, basically.
I kind of feel like a good way or maybe one of the ways would be to expose who's clearance would be really above the president,
the people that are higher up than the president along the lines of the clearances to the black projects
that don't only stretch from the opiate fields in Afghanistan,
but the technologies and the things like that, the patterns on bigger things.
Basically, what could be shown, what light can be shown to kill something before it starts to be war?
Thanks, James. Let's go into this a little bit.
He's a popular figure as an archvillain, but there's a lot behind it.
The guy, George Soros, his open society is basically a one-world globalist society.
He's not only been pushing for no borders for decades now, but he's also been, it's interesting.
I don't want to get on the whole hemp deal here, but he's been a pro-drug legalization guy forever also as well, everywhere he's gone.
And say what you want about drugs, but when people are doped up and not very functional, not thinking very clearly, they're very easy to control.
So the stupider that people are, which would involve, for example, mass immigration from very low IQ regions.
A country full of people with an IQ of 85 on the average is never going to develop a modern society, not on their own.
So importing millions of people with very low potential is a way to destroy a country.
Getting as many of functioning people to become druggies, fogging their minds and leaving them out of the workforce, that's another way.
These are George Soros projects.
If you go back in history, we use the term communist, that's really a term that was only popular from the end of the 19th century until, say, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Soviet Union.
But they're the same people from Robespierre and the Jacobins in the French Revolution through the modern communist era with Marx, Lenin, Stalin, right through to George Soros.
They've all really got the same vision, which is a one world government controlled by an elite of progressive communists.
And that's George Soros sees himself as the progenitor of this new version, this new wave communism.
And he's got the billions to back it.
It's interesting his background. He was a Hungarian who worked with the Nazis to take the possessions and wealth from the Jews that were being purged in Hungary, even though he was of that background.
But somehow miraculously, he walked right out of Hungary at a time when people would be machine gunned or tracked down by dogs with searchlights.
He somehow walked right out of Hungary. The next thing you know, he pops up in London with millions of dollars to invest and people helping him at every turn.
So a lot of people believe that he's, you know, a communist long term agent, just a new wave communist.
And we'll get back to this at the end of the F when we return from this break.
Now there's a, we've got a big sale on this is obviously the fourth of July weekend and the second American Revolution, fourth of July super sale is on right now.
So there's going to be very big savings at the info wars stores.
If you want to take the country back to the common house fly.
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife and kids, 39, 95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need. Period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more. Right.
And does it all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original most trusted name and gravity water filtration big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or big Berkey water filters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield. Toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the inflow war.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies.
With ZShield at infowarslife.com.
This is it. Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia. You're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now. I remember back when infowars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool.
I've been using your product since the birth iteration of survival shield and since then I'm on the X2, the super male vitality, the caveman, the real red pill, micro ZX body, it's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
Okay, let me give out the numbers again to call into the show. It's 877-789-ALEX. That's 877-789-2539.
And I just want to remind everybody there's a big 4th of July sale going on right now at the InfoWars store.
This is free shipping. This is going to be, of course, to support the programming, but do it while there's a patriotic reason just to remind you.
Brain Force Plus will be 50% off. That's with free shipping. Survival Shield X, that's 40% off and it's getting, stock is getting low. Knockout sleep support, silver bullet, super male vitality, 50% off.
DNA Force, 50% off. The real red pill, that's what everybody needs. Clear the mind, 50% off, free shipping, super female vitality. You'll have to tell me how that one works.
I wouldn't know. All super blue products, 50% off. So this is the time to hit the store, support InfoWars, and do yourself some good in the health department, health and mental vitality department.
Now we're going to go back to the phones here in a minute, see who we've got up, and let's see.
Kevin from Alaska is Kevin ready to go. He's been on for a while.
Hello, sir, can you hear me?
I do, loud and clear.
Great. So I think one of the problems of our country right now affecting everybody is that we don't have a functioning free media right now.
We have, our media is more of a corporate propaganda machine. So I have an idea that's so powerful that if it took place, it would dismantle the mainstream media in about a month and restore a free press in America.
You're not going to get me in trouble here, are you?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. That was a good intro. Go ahead.
Yeah, my suggestion is imagine if Donald Trump revoked all the White House press passes and had a new policy of one press pass per corporation or one press pass per parent company.
Because in the press room, there's probably about 100 journalists, but there's maybe three or four corporations represented there.
Well, you know, you're going to something that's a different way, a different take, looking at the corporate parentage of these supposedly independent voices.
And that's something certainly worth considering. But I would probably throw out the old system of putting the same people in the same positions. I would use a lottery system, for example, or something where you know the seats are numbered and we don't know on a given day if Jim Acosta is going to be up front or Gateway Pundit.
But I would certainly like to see a much wider range of journalists. I would probably do domestic one one day, economics on another day, foreign on another day.
But make it shorter and get some different reporters in there, get some new blood in there for sure.
Is that it? Kevin, you think that would help?
Yeah, it would help on a couple of different levels. First of all, the press would be reporting about how terrible Trump is to revoke all these passes.
And then pretty much most of America would be wondering why are there only three or four people in that press room? Why are there only three or four corporations controlling the news?
Where are all the other voices? Where are the representation of everyone else's interest?
I have kids in their 20s and they certainly don't watch network news. They get their news off of YouTube. They watch Paul Joseph Watson, folks like that.
And I would put people like him in the press room over the Jim Acosta's any day of the week.
Thanks there, Kevin. Let's see. Dean in Wisconsin. We go to you, Dean.
You ready there, Dean in Wisconsin?
Yeah, I'm at.
Go ahead.
Yeah, no, I'm.
The thing is, really, what I want to point out what you said on, I heard you stand in the last row.
If there were more patriots like in the FBI, you would have been hearing people speak out about it, which I agree with you.
I think the whole system is so corrupt that you're not getting whistleblowers that are coming out.
The thing is, I think if you just roll a few of those rats to come out and testify to what is really going on, what you guys are talking about this.
Globalism. That'll be the first thing to break this break the curtain down. Then Trump can come out and say, you know, this is what's truly going on. This technocracy, this globalist, which is so evident, you know, you do that.
And then at the same time, work to get a new paradigm of the nation state, go behind scenes, just like World War II, get everyone else on board, Poland, Yugoslavia.
They were going to do this new thing, and then you can slowly start to pull out of all the.
Well, Dean, thank you, Dean. Thanks.
Here's a situation with the FBI. I mean, I love Sean Hannity, but he keeps saying, you know, 99% of the FBI agents are just, you know, great patriots.
And I wish that that was true. And I'm not now not only speaking of the FBI now, but also CIA and SA.
The problem is, is that college output is FBI input. So in Christopher Ray, the other week was bragging about how smart the FBI agents are. So what if they come out with degrees in in social justice, warrior, you know, and America hating, you know, anti imperialist studies,
that's the input of the FBI. I mean, imagine in 1980, John Brennan was allowed into the CIA. He passed a polygraph where he said that he admitted on polygraph that he voted for Gus Hall, the communist in 1976.
In 1976, the gulags in the Soviet Union were still full. They were still shooting people climbing over the Berlin Wall. He voted for a communist. The CIA let him in in 1980.
So our federal institutions have been so infiltrated for so long that I don't think that there's an easy way to turn that. I mean, it's not an accident or a coincidence that the top floors of the DOJ and the FBI were full of, you know,
the DO communist social justice warriors, they believe that the Constitution and and the more honest of them will actually say this. They believe that the Constitution is a white racist slave master contract.
They hate it. Now they realize that they have to mouth the right words. They'll say that they believe in the Constitution, but they don't. They believe in the Marxist mantra that the ends justify the means. That means also that they can lie.
They can look right at the camera and say that they believe in the Constitution while they're working to destroy it and replace it with something of a Marxist vision.
That's what the open borders is all about right now. Open borders in 2018. That's one of their chance is no borders, no nations, you know, F deportations.
That's the 2018 version of workers of the world unite. It's the global vision. You know, the communists profess to hate Nazis.
The Nazis were also socialists. The Nazis, though, were national socialists. So what the communists hate about the Nazis wasn't the socialism part. They're down for that.
What they hated about the Nazis was the nationalism part. Communists hate borders, hate nations. They see the world being run by a global elite, somebody like, you know, that would be picked by a George Soros.
That's the way that the European Union is being run. So, yeah, I don't think that we're going to just have some way of getting some whistleblowers from the FBI out and then everything's going to be all right.
Because I think that the entire culture has been polluted by political correctness now, you know, going back decades. That's who they hire. That's who they promote.
I mean, the old patriots that you picture from the old days, I think they're long retired. They're gone.
This is the new version of the powerhouse Kreglenon product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process, with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kreglenon base, the real Redsville, has quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
The great stuff that Real Redsville has, it's also got the boost in it. Get the Real Redsville Plus at infowarstore.com.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically-studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars' Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
What would have happened if you hadn't supported InfoWars?
We would not be having the victories we have today, so yes, a lot of good things are happening, but the enemy is striking back.
So please, think about InfoWars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time on the Fourth of July that's so historic.
We have record sales going on right now, free shipping on hundreds of different items.
More than 20 items are 50% off like Rainforest Plus, X2 is 40% off, Knockout Sleep Aid 1776, Silver Bullets 995 colletal silver, and free shipping, you can't beat that.
This Fourth of July is special and our sales are special to match it. InfoWarsStore.com.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Okay, we're going to switch directions slightly and look across the pond, the Atlantic, to what's going on in Britain with the Paul Joseph Watson report. Britain's important because they're just 10 years ahead of us.
So anybody that thinks you know the hell with them, think again. So let's go to Paul Joseph Watson.
I really want to know why I joined UKIP.
But for all of their salty goodness, none of those headlines could beat this one.
Meet the new face of UKIP, the free speech extremists who could make UKIP dangerous again.
Right, so there are 25,000 potential Islamic terrorists roaming the streets, but I'm the extremist because I support free speech.
A jihadist who attended a far left march tries to carry out terror on the streets of London, but these guys are who we need to keep an eye on.
You're either for or against free speech. Me being in favour of it doesn't make me an extremist, it makes me a classical liberal.
It also makes me diametrically opposed to the alt-right who now brazenly admit that they don't support free speech.
Are we even pro-free speech? No, of course not.
Strange that, isn't it? I'm for free speech and against an ethno-state.
The alt-right is for an ethno-state and against free speech.
Yet a dozen or more mainstream press outlets just called me alt-right.
You know what, it's almost like they know that I'm not actually alt-right and they're just lying to their readers to smear me.
But this is the legacy media and we know they'd never do that.
Defending the right to be unpleasant, offensive and abusive without recourse is an extreme interpretation of freedom of speech.
Right, so I guess that makes the Supreme Court an extremist body.
I guess that makes the First Amendment an extremist doctrine.
It'd be a negative to be a staunch defender of a fundamental human right that underpins all the others.
The only real free speech extremists are terrorists who kill others for exercising their free speech.
If you really think that meme-lords and center-left classical liberals are far-right extremists,
what does that say about you?
What does that say about how far left your hysterical rhetoric has shifted the Overton window?
What does it say about how little you know about meme culture and about how little you pretend to know about the real alt-right?
So thanks, Mikey Smith, for that abortion of a headline because it's going to keep me laughing all through the summer.
Could they make UKIP dangerous again?
Dangerous to who or what?
Dangerous to killing a measure that will devastate digital rights and cripple the fundamental underlying structure of the internet?
Yes!
Dangerous to the notion that people should be deported or thrown in jail because they have a different opinion to you?
Yes!
Dangerous to the credibility of people like Communist Corbyn Easter Mouthpiece Paul Mason,
who painted a giant target on my back by mentioning me.
Then in the very next paragraph implied that I want a shooting war to start,
then when confronted on it, backed out of any debate, like a complete coward?
Yes!
I'll tell you why. I joined UKIP.
The truth is, there is something terribly wrong with this country, isn't there?
UKIP is the only major political party in this country that supports free speech.
The so-called conservatives have nothing whatsoever to say about people being banned from the country for having the wrong opinion,
about people being convicted for jokes, about thousands of people a year being arrested for mean tweets,
while actual violent crime soars across the country, and neither do the so-called liberals.
They're all complicit in the erosion of one of the bedrock principles of western civilisation.
UKIP is the only major political party in this country that supports the democratic mandate of the British people when it comes to Brexit,
a mandate that has been torn up and incinerated by a spineless Tory government.
UKIP is the only major party in this country that opposes the continued insanity of mass immigration.
A view shared by the clear majority of Europeans, yet one that our gutless leadership then even address.
UKIP is the only major party in this country that opposes the brutal practice of Halal slaughter.
That's why I joined UKIP, and that's why you should join too.
This isn't about resurrecting the far right, this isn't about extremism.
Part of our conversation with Gerard Batten was focused around keeping the far right and extremists out of UKIP.
This is about free speech, this is about restoring democracy, this is about making Britain great again.
And I'd like to remind folks that Tommy Robinson, who's the ultimate free speech Brit, has been in prison for more than a month now,
most of that time in solitary confinement, which is 23 and a half hours a day in a concrete box.
He's not even allowed to write letters because a letter that he wrote home to his wife was put on the internet.
I guess that violated some kind of a speech code.
Now he's not even being allowed to write letters.
This is definitely a form of psychological torture, trying to break the man.
He's going to be up for some kind of a parole hearing in a couple of weeks,
and there are big demonstrations scheduled, I believe, in the middle of July, the 14th, I think, comes to mind.
Why do I care about Britain? Because Britain is just where we're going.
It's the same path we're taking.
I'm going to tie this back to what I was saying about the FBI and our federal law enforcement agencies the last segment.
I'm reading right now a novel, or excuse me, a book, nonfiction, called Easy Meat,
Inside the British Grooming Gang scandal by Peter McLaughlin.
McLaughlin was a liberal when he started examining this situation and turned him into a conservative.
He co-wrote with Tommy Robinson why Muslims kill for Allah.
I forget if that's the right title.
But now he's become an Islam expert.
And what this book exposes, I mean, it's gut-wrenching to read,
but the British authorities from the parliament, their town councils, their police departments,
they were virtually complicit in the mass exploitation of small girls.
We're talking 10 girls, 10 to 14 years old, being abducted, gang raped, drugged, prostituted, only for the men.
So you could really say they were sex slaves.
The girls saw none of the income.
And for more than 30 years, this was covered up by the Brits.
And the reason I point this out isn't to say, oh, how terrible the British authorities are.
They were and are.
But inside of our own culture in the United States, political correctness can have such a control on people.
Even if there were patriots inside the FBI, which at this point has to be doubtful,
they're keeping their head down, going for their pension.
They don't rock the boat.
The politically correct social justice warriors rule the day, make the promotions, get promoted, and make policy.
That's how we saw the deep state coup against Trump.
It wasn't an anomaly.
That was FBI culture.
And that was the same thing going on in Britain with a culture that sold out their own people basically for cheap immigrant votes.
By bringing in third-worlders who offer nothing, most of them are on the dole.
Most of the crime in Britain, the rapes, something like 5% of the British population is Muslim,
but they were 90% of these gang rapes.
And for 30 years, the authorities covered it up.
In some cases, they even took part, police, with abusing these little girls.
All because they put the immigrants coming in as sure votes for the socialists, for the Labour Party, ahead of the welfare of their own country.
And if you think this couldn't happen in America, think again.
This is what the Democrats are doing with their open borders.
They want to replace the patriotic Americans with low IQ non-English speakers who don't know what the Constitution is and don't give a damn what the Constitution is,
basically diluting our votes and then eventually replacing us.
So this is just the latest camouflage of the neo-communists who 100 years ago were saying workers of the world unite.
Now they're saying no borders, no nations.
But it's the same matrix going back to the French Revolution through Marx, through Lenin and Stalin, through George Soros, right to today.
So when you're wondering, what's up with the Democrats and their open borders?
What's up with these British traders mass-importing third-worlders, mostly Muslim, to replace Brits?
How could they do this?
They do it for power.
They do it to stay in power.
They put their own power ahead of the welfare of their weakest, most helpless little girls,
allowing them to be drugged, gang-raped and prostituted and hiding it for 30 years.
It tears me up.
That's why I'm into Britain.
To come back, we'll take some phone calls.
This is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have it in FullWarsLife.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high-quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering in FullWarsLife.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.
It's Alex Jones.
Okay, I'm Matt Bracken in for Alex this hour.
And we're going to be taking some more calls.
I got pretty upset at the end of the last hour talking about what's been going on in Britain.
I'm reading a book called Easy Meet inside the British grooming gang scandal by Peter McLaughlin,
who also co-wrote a book with Tommy Robinson, who's currently more than a month in prison,
mostly solitary confinement over in Britain.
Britain is not a free country anymore, my friends.
And it's very important to understand that your elites will sell you out.
Do not look to your elites for protection.
Trump is doing what he can to drain the swamp.
But the swamp is still full of these one world globalist neo-communists,
no matter what they call themselves.
And it's very important to remember, like Islamists,
these neo-communists believe that the ends justify the means,
which means lying is okay.
Lying is just a tactic that you use against suckers.
That's us, the suckers.
So you cannot take leftists at face value as being sincere.
You have to look at them as an unbroken extension of all the communists that ever came before.
Right now, they have to pretend to be Americans who believe in the Constitution, but they're not.
Any more than the British trader class, they pretend to be Brits, but they're not.
They're globalists. They're willing to sell out their own country for their one world vision, a socialist vision.
We have to get inside this loop and understand it in order to defeat it.
Now, we're going to keep going with the calls.
I'm sorry, they're backed up so much.
I see Jeremy from Oregon has been holding for a long time.
Jeremy, if you're still there, come on on.
Yeah, I'm here.
I have a couple of questions. You keep bringing up IQ, like low IQ,
and I wondered if you knew that IQ is kind of arbitrary and increases once they get education.
Yeah, right. Listen, the U.S. Army, going back for decades, has figured out that their test, the AFSAB, doesn't...
It correlates directly to IQ, and they won't even recruit people with, I think, below like an 86, 85, 86 IQ,
because these people take more in training than they're ever going to give back to the military in utility.
So if we bring people into the country that are basically at the level of building mud huts
that have never even thought about what electricity is, they're very primitive.
They're going to be on welfare for their entire lives.
Their children will be on welfare.
It's basically jump-starting idiocracy.
I don't know where you... It's a completely politically correct bogus idea that IQ doesn't mean anything,
and you can just educate people out of it.
I'm telling you, the Army long ago, the military found out,
you can try to educate people with an 83 IQ till the cows come home,
and after a year, they'll still be competent only to sweep a floor.
I'm not saying that there's no value in folks that can sweep a floor really well,
but if you're trying to run a modern technological society, they don't help.
They mostly wind up on welfare.
If you've ever seen the movie Idiocracy, that's what it's going to look like.
Thanks, Jeremy. Let's go to Johnny in California.
Hey, I wasn't...
Go ahead, Johnny in California.
Hey, Matt, I want to ask you about Trump and what he can actually do to cut some of this stuff off,
because he's got criminals all around him.
Does he have recourse to use the military to arrest these people?
I don't know about using the military to arrest people right now.
If the conditions became such that there was anarchy and civil war, then all bets are off.
All bets are off at that point.
But right now, no, I would say absolutely not.
This is a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Okay, we're coming back to some phone calls.
I see people have been waiting for a long time to get through.
And I like going international.
Let's go to Robert from Canada.
How can we protest and what are the best strategies for victory?
Robert, are you there?
Man, good to talk to you.
Hey, Matt.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Go ahead.
Man, good to talk to you.
You know, I was thinking about what Alex keeps saying about this is the move they're going to make in the summer.
And of course, their big, big toy is Antifa.
And given the free speech is the big thing for Americans.
I'm kind of surprised that that's the method that people on the right always use to protest is free speech.
We have the right for free speech.
If conservatives on the right are going to go out with free speech, and we're going to use free speech,
and we're going to be out there in the streets, and we're going to be for border security,
and we're going to be for Trump, and we're going to be for Tommy Robinson, and all these things.
Antifa is going to be right there.
And you know what the headlines are going to be in the New York Times the next day about Antifa beating up a bunch of right-wing extremists.
I was thinking that really what needs to happen for us to have victory is we need to go straight to our true roots.
And that's Christianity.
Because what's going to happen if the Christians for Christians are out in the streets protesting their right to Christianity?
And when Antifa goes and attacks them, attacks the Christians, they're Democrats and Republicans.
What's the New York Times headline going to be then?
What's the Democrat Party going to do then?
What's Nancy Pelosi going to say?
Well, you know, this is an interesting point.
The riots in Portland were Antifa going against Patriot prayer, and I think that's the right tone.
I wouldn't necessarily put Christian right on it.
Now, if Christians want to march, obviously I'm all for that.
But I wouldn't want to identify the movement with necessarily being Christian.
I would say constitutional.
But if Antifa wants to go down in history as throwing bricks at people who are at Patriots who are trying to peacefully pray,
that probably works.
Now, an important factor also is that the media is not monolithic anymore.
It's channelized.
Yeah, the New York Times, they're going to think that Tommy Robinson is an alt-right thug, founder of a racist organization, which is a complete lie.
And they're going to think that the Patriot prayer movement is also a bunch of alt-right Charlottesville type people, which it's not.
So you have to almost give up on trying to get an honest message through the mainstream media.
We have to focus on messaging through our own channels, which is info wars, maybe some Fox News, one American news network.
Very good network, believe me.
If you get it on Direct TV, 347, I watch that all the time.
Also, just watching like young people do, which is getting your news off of the internet while it lasts.
I'm not getting out in the street mixing it up anymore.
I'm a little bit old for that.
I wouldn't dissuade people that want to do that from doing it.
They have to understand that the police will always be on the side of Antifa, because that's who the social justice warrior mayors are on the side of.
And you're always going to be looking terrible in the media.
So be careful how you do it. Don't go out looking like thugs and be prepared to take the brickbats because you're going to get them.
I did like that knockout punch where the conservatives hit the guy with the club and knocked him out with one punch.
I did watch that about 100 times.
I'll admit a little guilty pleasure there.
But just also, I would say, swarm the comment sections anywhere you can.
Any media that have one of the internet that don't allow comments, they're basically admitting that they've lost the argument that they can't stay up with conservatives in the comment sections.
The liberals can't win on ideas.
They can only win on emotions showing a crying baby or hitting you on the head with a bicycle lock.
That's what they're reduced to.
Crying babies and bicycle locks.
We win on the war of ideas.
And everybody being unafraid in the workplace on the internet, that's key.
Don't be silent. Don't be cowed.
The social justice warriors, they win when a small group of people can infect the thinking of a corporation, of a federal government agency to the point where nobody will say anything.
For example, people won't put a cross on their desk.
They're afraid of the reaction.
I would say, yes, do that.
We want to put a cross on your desk, on your office door.
Go ahead and do it.
Make the social justice warriors out themselves as the neo-communist atheist thugs that they are.
Anyway, let's go to Pastor Sam in Texas since we're talking about where Christians fit into this picture.
Pastor Sam, what have you got there?
Hi, Matt. First time on with you. Thank you for your service. I appreciate your work very much.
And yes, it's important for us as Christians to stand up for what we believe.
In fact, rioting in the streets and social breakdown does open the door for a little bit of frontier justice, which we're entitled to as Americans.
We really want to know what that is going to look like. We can look back to 1887, the dynamite bombing in the Haymarket riots,
greatly codified in a free book on the Internet called Anarchy and Anarchists.
These kind of movements never are grassroots, but they're always globalists behind them, funding and pushing.
And also right now, in the streets of Nicaragua, this has already happened. The cities have been shut down for a month or two with rioting in the streets back and forth.
And in that case, it's very clearly the Catholic priests and bishops are running the insurrection.
The president is also suspect, but it's a horrible situation that's going on, but we can see that there are forces behind it.
It's not grassroots. It never is.
Well, Nicaragua is basically a communist country run by the retread communist ortega, and the people are protesting as they are in Venezuela against hunger and lack of freedom.
So I'm not really up on where the Catholic priests are fitting into that.
Certainly, you know, the Jesuits and marionoles have been aligned with the progressives of liberation theology in Latin and South America for decades, but I'm not up on that part of Nicaragua.
But yeah, we're in interesting times.
And you can see the whole open borders movement is basically a neo-communist cover.
And when we just saw Obrador elected, it looks like he's been elected.
He's promised to send, you know, waves of Mexicans straight into America, sort of as their birthright.
So we're going to need to fix this border really fast.
Something that's important to realize about that is that one of the callers before asked what the military can do.
Well, the president has his own little part of the Constitution, article four section four.
It says that the federal government should protect the states against invasion.
It's in black and white in the Constitution.
There are a few things in the Constitution that just aren't taught.
The progressives, the Marxists, the one-worlders, they're the ones that run academia.
They sort of airbrush out these parts of the Constitution.
But for the president to defend the borders is just as clear-cut as the First or Second Amendment.
It says that the federal government shall protect the states against invasion.
How many millions of people, unknown, unvetted, young men fighting age, walking into our country,
gang members carrying drugs, how many counts as an invasion?
So yeah, the president tomorrow could read article four section four on television
and announce that the Army Corps of Engineers is going to immediately start building fences along the border.
Hungary and Israel did it in a matter of months.
It doesn't take long.
We've just got a completely wrong strategy for protecting the border and the wrong strategy is on purpose.
The wrong strategy is meant to bring in as many people as possible.
And I'll talk about how we can fix that in the next segment.
But it's very doable. It's not rocket science.
It's like article four section four. It's one of those things that they just don't talk about.
But securing a border is dead simple. Everybody knows how to do it.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Go Berkey.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
It's happening because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Get them right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
Get a probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
This new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today!
In the last segment, I was talking about how you defend borders.
It sort of was a mistake by Trump to say, let's build a wall because a wall has a specific meaning.
He's talking about concrete that's dug down deep and extending up high.
Not only is that way more expensive than a fence system, it takes way too long to build.
And the smugglers or anybody trying to cross the border can hide on the other side out of sight.
Fence systems take a fraction of the time to build, they're much cheaper, and the key is having parallel fences with a patrol road in between.
This is not rocket science, this is really basic stuff.
You have two fences so that even after you've crossed fence number one, you have to go across a sand road where your footprints show up and where jeeps are patrolling back and forth.
If you've seen that meme that I posted showing what half of Arizona looks like, like a barbed wire cattle fence, that's the only fence for miles and miles.
What having no fence does is force the border patrol to defend in depth.
You always hear about the border patrol picking people up 10, 20, 30 miles from the border.
This means that the finite number of border patrol out in the field can't be up close to the border.
They have to be defending in depth, like a football prevent defense.
They can't be up on the front line because there's no actual border fence to defend.
If there is a fence, you could then take the border patrol that we have and instead of spreading them out across 20,000 square miles of desert going deep into the USA,
they would just be in their vehicles patrolling an actual double border fence.
There would be enough border patrol to have one every couple hundred yards.
Nobody could cross the border because they'd have to come up with giant ladders or cutting torches and there'd be border patrols sitting there looking at them.
Hungary did it in a matter of months.
They bucked the PC of the European Union, sort of like analogous to the USA.
The European Union said we're going to get rid of internal borders between say France and Italy or Germany and Austria.
We're just going to have an outer border, but then they never had the outer border.
So anybody that got into any part of Europe, say Greece, could then freely take cabs, buses, trains to any part of the European Union.
That's what it's like in America with our catch and release policy.
You get one mile into America, the border patrol picks you up, they can't just kick you out.
You've got to go through this elaborate process, get lawyered up, wait for judges, become a propaganda tool in some kind of a camp.
With an actual strong double border fence, they don't get into the country.
It's interesting, Hungary did an even more clever trick.
They didn't build their double fence right at the Hungary Serbia border.
They built it about 100 yards into Hungary.
So instead of needing to go before deportation judges and hearings, getting these immigrants lawyered up, they just dropped them on the other side of the fence.
They're still technically inside of Hungary.
They didn't deport anybody, but pretty soon people decide, you know what, I'm going to try my luck somewhere else.
They walk back into Serbia and go try their luck in another country.
So there are ways to do this.
It's not expensive, it wouldn't take years. The Department of Defense has the funds.
We go out and we defend countries all over the world.
As I say, we defend Timbuk-2 from Timbuk-3 out in the middle of East, you know where, but we won't defend our own border.
This is not hard to understand.
It's because the social justice warrior neocommunists, their newest strategy, camouflage strategy, is open borders.
That's all there is to understand about it.
It's really, you know, it's not any more complicated than that.
Now, let's see.
I'm going to go back to some calls here.
Leo and Mass has been holding for more than an hour.
And it says, do I know about July 17th, 1918? And that intrigues me because I like the history questions.
So go ahead, Leo, I don't know about July 17th, 1918.
If you're still there, Leo, go ahead.
That was the day that the Romanovs and the children and the servants were executed.
And that anniversary is coming up pretty soon, and I'm afraid for Trump.
I see your point with him and his family.
I just saw, well, I was looking at Twitter a moment ago and I saw that they arrested somebody who was going to try to take out Rand Paul and his family.
You know, the leftists are absolutely going to go after individuals, including family members.
You know, they've been brainwashed now for the last few years, and certainly since Trump has become president, that he's the next Hitler.
Well, I can remember going back to high school and college, it was always a social studies type of a thought experiment.
What if you knew Hitler was coming to power, but, you know, you had Clair Williams, you could see the future.
Yes, it would be the moral thing to do to kill Hitler as a young man, as even as a child.
Well, this is what our progressive social justice warriors have been inculcated with.
This message is coming through the mainstream media.
Trump is Hitler.
Well, what do you do if you know there's a rising Hitler?
You go out to the GOP baseball game with an SKS.
You know, luckily that time, the guy had a bad plan, but it came very close.
Those Republicans were all in that dugout. They could have been massacred.
That was a very close thing.
So I share your concern, Leo.
There are people out there who would, you know, would kidnap one of the Trump children in a second, and they would justify it in their mind as a moral act to try to stop the Trump Hitler.
I mean, this is a very dangerous time we're in, and I expect more like the Republican baseball practice.
I expect that to be a pattern for the future, you know, or an HVAC attack with a gas or kidnapping a Trump child.
So you better hope that the Secret Service is on their game for sure.
Thanks, Leo. That's a very good point.
We don't have enough time for another caller in this segment, but I just want to reiterate.
It's a smokescreen to think that only Congress can approve a border wall.
That's within the commander-in-chief's power right now today.
I don't know, you know, who's teaching him his Constitution, but defending the border against invasion is in black and white.
And people should understand that the most successful invasions in history were not D-Day with landing craft.
There were immigration invasions like the Visigoths coming into Roman territory.
They were the West Goths, the Germans.
They were actually refugees fleeing the Asiatic Huns.
And the Romans didn't want to bring them in, but felt guilty about them suffering at the hands of the Huns.
They allowed the Visigoths in, and in a few years the Visigoths are sacking Rome.
So the most successful invasions in history have been demographic invasions.
Just look at what's happening to Europe now, allowing in the Islamic conquest.
For 1400 years they've fought them. Now they're inviting them in.
It's a tragedy unfolding, and we haven't seen the worst of it by a long shot.
But we can stop it. We can turn it around, and that's what we're here for on Infoguars.
Truly the best knife you will ever own, and only available at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get The Ultimate Knife at TheUltimatePrice at TheUltimateKnife.com
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years someone has finally come up with a better way.
The Bug Assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$39.95 in free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at BugAssault.com.
Here's your Flice Water. Get your Bug Assault today.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process,
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill,
can quickly become one of our fellow infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstore.com.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Matt Bracken with you again for the next half an hour.
You know, something that's important to understand is sometimes the enemy, they're evil,
but they do come up with some good tactics.
If anybody out there hasn't got a copy of Alinsky's Rules for Radicals, you keep hearing about this
and maybe you don't really know what it is.
Alinsky studied the mafia in Chicago.
He applied what he learned from mafia tactics, which include extortion, terrorism, propaganda.
He created a manual for running labor unions and then for running cities using mafia tactics.
And it's really brilliant. It's evil, but it's really brilliant.
If you don't understand, if you don't have a copy, get a copy, learn it, and really absorb it.
One of the things that I like to do is flip these things around on the progressives.
They think they always say, you know, make us hold to our own rules.
If we're Christians and we believe in the golden rule, they use that as leverage against us.
They'll stick the knife in our back at the moment that it's tactically, you know, beneficial to them.
But until that moment, they'll lie to our faces about their intentions.
So I say, don't do it. Never take the left at face value as being sincere.
They lie. It's what they do.
If they came out and put a hammer and sickle on their hat, it would hurt their cause right now, so they don't.
So anybody who is for open borders in 2018 is either a neo-communist, no matter what they would call themselves,
leftist, progressive, I know, ultra-liberal, social justice warrior.
They're neo-communists or they're Lenin's useful idiots. They just don't know any better.
You know, they see the crying child picture, it tears at their heartstrings, and they're just useful idiots.
Don't take them as sincere when they say that they're just for justice or just for freedom
or for people to live a better life. Their intention is to wreck this country.
The United States is the last citadel. We're the bastion.
If freedom falls in America, it falls around the globe.
There won't be some place like New Zealand or, you know, Chile to run away and hide in.
If freedom is lost here, it's gone everywhere. That's why we're the main target.
And the newest tactic of the neo-communists is open borders.
Just flood the zone, flood America with immigrants who don't care about the Constitution.
They just want the benefits, but not only do they take the benefits,
but each one of them requires a little squad of government employees to take care of all their benefits.
So yeah, don't accept them at face value as just wanting social justice.
They're neo-communists or they are useful idiots, but never just accept them at what they say,
because what they do is lie.
Okay, I'd like to go now. Chris in Washington has been on for an hour asking,
is a violent civil war actually going to happen?
Yeah, short answer, yes. But go ahead, Chris. Let's talk about that.
Hey, Matt, first of all, I'd like to say thanks for the products Alex and all your staff puts out.
I use them myself, great product.
Second of all, you know, I work over here on the highways on the heavy highway construction worker
and I see the anger on the left. I work the I-5 order here in Seattle.
So I live in a very liberal, you know, part of the state and you can just see the anger.
Seeing the signs vote in November, vote them all out, hate Trump, I see demonstrations, blah, blah, blah.
Do you guys honestly think there's actually going to be fighting in the streets?
Because I was telling my wife that we're coming back from shop and groceries and I said, hey, imagine,
right now standing up here up on the mountain, I live over in the Olympic Peninsula,
we're sitting up on the mountain and watching our country burn.
And she just kind of gave me a weird look and I kind of startled her with that.
Because you know, I always thought you were a wingnut, but you sure seem like everything you've been talking about is coming true.
I just kind of want to get your take on it.
Yeah, I think that what we're going to see in terms of, you know, fighting in the streets,
it'll primarily be things like the Patriot Prayer Movement going out and announcing a meeting which is going to draw Antifa.
You know, the Antifa will be ushered in by the police who are also controlled by the social justice warrior mayors,
certainly in your region and Berkeley, places like that.
So the street fighting that you're going to see is going to be Antifa versus, you know, Patriots.
However, that's going to change fairly quickly.
If this really becomes a thing, somebody eventually is going to get in the high place and spray a crowd with, you know,
a couple mags and that's going to be the end of street, of massive street protests.
This is, you know, sure to happen.
It kind of happened in Dallas where the police were assassinated, but it would have just been probably even more effective if somebody,
if the same guy had sprayed the demonstrators and then left right wing literature, for example, as a false flag.
But sooner or later, somebody's going to get the idea, either that or they're going to plow a big truck right through a crowd.
And the odds are it could adjust as good as being a false flag operation as being, you know, an overt operation.
But yeah, I think it's going to happen, especially when the Democrats don't win in November.
You know, right now all of their chips are on, you know, vote them out in November.
But this open borders push is poison for the Democrats.
It's going to be like Nixon versus McGovern, you know, in 72.
Never mind Watergate. We know what happened after that.
But the liberals went so ultra liberal between 68 and 72 that Nixon won 49 states.
You know, if the message is getting through that the Democrats just went wide open borders,
which means, you know, mass immigration, you know, a diluted quality of health care, education, everything,
because we're supporting the indigence of the entire world.
The Democrats are going to be wiped out in November.
You know, they might win Portland and they might win, you know, Massachusetts.
But across the heartland, they are going to be wiped out.
And after that, if you think that they were angry after Trump was elected,
imagine if the Senate, if the Republicans pick up enough votes in the Senate
to get the next two or three conservative, meaning constitutional, Supreme Court justices through,
then they're going to feel like they've got nothing left but violence,
because they're never going to say, maybe we were wrong.
You know what? Maybe the conservatives are right.
Some will, because they'll be disgusted by anti-fotactics, you know, throwing bricks at old ladies on the street.
But many will then say, there's only one thing left,
and that's to go from violent street protests to, you know, Ted Kaczynski tactics,
or false flag sniper tactics.
That's going to happen.
We're kidnapping the children of, you know, the Trumps, or taking out Rand Paul's family,
like somebody was just arrested for.
Yeah, I don't see that there's any back down.
And I think that the Republicans are going to win big in November,
and then the remaining progressives are just going to totally lose their minds and go for violence.
That's what I see happening.
I don't see what else can happen.
I'm going to take the next call, and then we're going to talk about it after the break also.
Sean in Iowa, if civil war broke out, what should we do?
You want to expand on that question until we go to the break there, Sean?
Yeah, absolutely.
Go ahead. You've got it.
Yeah, Matt, I really want to thank you for your service to this great nation first and foremost.
Thank you.
What are your suggestions if this does happen, which I really hope it doesn't,
but I love this country.
I do not want to see this country become a communist dictator asshole if you understand what I'm saying.
What are your suggestions for us patriots that love this country in the case civil war does break out?
Well, I think that you need to harden up your own family infrastructure.
There could be serious disruptions, and we'll talk about that on the other side of the break,
but you need to be prepared to go it alone for a month at least.
That means no supermarkets, no water coming into your house.
If you can do that, you're well on the way to making it through,
and we'll talk about that some more on the other side.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water,
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts,
or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver,
and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash, designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well,
infowarstore.com, or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated
with detoxifying the body and it supports the infowar. It is a classical 360-win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year,
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you,
the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield at infowarslife.com.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Okay, this is Matt Brack in last segment.
We were just talking about what can you do to prepare for a civil war.
First thing to understand is it won't look like the north versus the south.
You know, like you're going to go to some other state to fight it.
It's going to be zip code versus zip code or one side of your street versus the other side of your street.
So certainly you need to have enough, you know, basically the same prepper stuff
as if you were preparing for, you know, an international war, an EMP strike, a cyber war,
namely that the internet could go down, banking could go down.
I expect all of these things could happen.
You won't be able to get fuel for your car.
Have a few extra jerry cans handy, maybe cash them somewhere where you might be bugging out to.
Make sure there's some fuel at each end of your bug out route or along the way.
Ammunition, guns, ammo, hopefully you're up to speed.
Some concealable body armor.
So if you have to go to the supermarket assuming it hasn't been looted, you know,
the supermarket is going to be like the watering hole where the gazelle is going.
That's full of crocodiles and surrounded by lions.
So you're going to want concealable body armor.
You're going to certainly want to have some cash on hand,
assume that the ATMs aren't going to work,
or it could be a situation where you're afraid to use your credit card
because you might be out of bounds from where you want people to know you are.
You want to be able to pay in cash, silver, ammunition, things like that.
These are just to get you through opening stages of a civil war
that, you know, there might be a very steep learning curve.
And if you're, for example, starving and have to go out to get food,
that's going to put your entire family at risk
because daddy might not come back from the supermarket.
But in terms of getting ready on an intellectual or an academic level,
there's one book that I've read.
Gosh, I must have read this book ten times.
It's called The Dirty War, and it's covert strategies for dealing with,
let me see what they, I'm blowing the title there,
but it's called The Dirty War by Martin Dillon,
covert strategies and tactics used in political conflicts.
Now this is based on the Northern Ireland experience from the 60s through the 90s.
But updated for, you know, smartphones and Wi-Fi,
the same strategies and tactics are going to apply.
You know, false flag operations will be very common.
You know, surveillance, counter surveillance,
you know, different methods of, you know, ambush, counterambush,
but in an urban and a suburban environment.
You know, this isn't a soldier's book for being out in the field,
which is going to be very limited in a modern war.
Hiding out in the woods playing Robin Hood isn't going to cut it.
Drones are going to spot your heat signature
and drop a missile on you in a heartbeat.
You're going to have to continue to live a normal pattern of life.
You're not going to be wearing camouflage.
You're going to be wearing street clothes.
So the tactics that you're going to adapt
are going to be tactics that don't out you as a guerrilla fighter
or as any kind of a fighter.
You know, you're going to need clandestine weapons, clandestine communications,
and understand the tactics of your enemies.
And there's no better book for that than The Dirty War by Martin Dillon.
You know, it's written about the Irish,
but it could have been written, you know, ten years from now
about any modern civil war.
So I very highly recommend it.
But, you know, I think we have time for another call.
I see Curtin, Minnesota,
comments on a civil war Curt's been holding for an hour.
So go ahead, Curt.
Hey, thanks, Matt.
You're welcome.
Appreciate you covering the chauffeur, Alex, and those guys today.
You bet.
My thought on this issue is what happened to all the ammunition
that was bought by the Obama administration?
I think that we should pass along that they need to call for an audit
to find out where that went.
Because if it ends up like they've done in the Middle East
where all of a sudden Al Qaeda pops up well-armed with stuff that we gave them,
that could happen right here in this country.
I'm not too concerned about that.
You know, the number of armed federal law enforcement agents
is, you know, low-sex figures at best.
And even if they've all got, you know, thousands of rounds, who cares?
We measure our numbers in, you know, tens of millions, not tens of thousands.
And we count our ammunition in billions, not millions.
So, you know, I often, I made a meme a while back.
You know, what's in the Constitution?
FBI, DOJ, NSA, CIA, or militia?
The answer is militia.
And who has more ammunition
and who has more special operations troops of those groups?
The militia. That's us.
The feds might, you know, they might potentially not under Trump,
but under an Obama type.
They might potentially try to arm Antifa.
I don't think it'll get them very far.
Now, even a knucklehead, like the guy that shot up the baseball practice,
you know, can get some shots in.
But you could see from him, he had no tactics, he had no plan,
and he wasn't able to conduct the massacre that he wanted to.
Not saying that the next Antifa type wouldn't.
But we're not talking about, you know, militia versus militia type fighting.
We're talking about a war of terrorism,
where idiots are groomed and brainwashed into conducting
more of these baseball practice type operations.
But it's not going to be, you know, the feds coming in heavy,
and it's not going to be, you know, militia versus militia.
It's going to be at your doorbell when the fake UPS man shows up,
you know, and has a gun in the box.
That's what this civil war is going to look like.
And that's what hardening your target is going to mean.
It's going to mean solar-powered surveillance lights and cameras
around your property, you know, things that aren't dependent on the grid
or the conventional power.
Assume that the internet's going to go down.
You know, assume that your credit cards might not work.
And for sure, they'll track you by your, you know, ATM and credit cards
if they're even working.
But yeah, it's going to be a whole new type of a war.
And I would recommend, you know, this story right here,
what I saw at the coup, all of my short stories and essays on civil war
are on my website, enemiesfarnanddomestic.com,
just Google them by the titles, they'll come right up.
But yeah, we're going to be in for some hard roles
because I think that the Democrats are going to get, you know,
defeated soundly in November, and then they're just going to be frantic.
Then the most dangerous of them are going to be the real hardcore
that feel that they've got nothing to lose,
that they're totally backed into a corner.
I mean, they really do believe that Trump is forming up the Gestapo
to come and get them.
That's what they believe, it's what they've been told.
And they're getting ready now to, you know,
it could look like Germany in the 1930s or 20s
before Hitler came to power in terms of the street fighting.
But in America with so many well-armed people,
crowds aren't going to be a problem once snipers start shooting at crowds.
Any group of, you know, thousands of people is just going to be too vulnerable to target.
It's not going to be, you know, it's not going to be a going thing once the shooting starts.
Helen in Kansas, do you have a short one?
Comments on Antifa and Civil War.
We go to Helen in Kansas.
Hi.
Hi Helen, go ahead.
I'm going to carry my speaker.
You bet.
Well, I'm just calling to say that you are right.
And what people call today globalism,
or New World Order, or One World System,
is the Lord God called the beast, which rises up out of the sea,
which is symbolic for the sea of people in Revelation 13.
And he says in Nehemiah chapter 6 verses 15 and 16,
says, So the wall was finished in the 20th and 5th day of the month of Elu,
which is our September 10th through 11th, and 50 and 2 days.
And it came to pass that when all our enemies heard thereof,
and all the heathens that were around about us,
Helen, I'm running out of time and people can look up Nehemiah,
but it's interesting that in almost all of the holy books,
all of these wheels, like one of these giant Aztec calendars, stone calendars,
all of the wheels sort of seem to be rolling together like the tumblers on a safe,
lining up for that lock to suddenly unlock.
It's just uncanny how all of these gears of history seem to be aligning right now,
and I wouldn't rule anything out.
And your holy book, other people's holy books,
they all seem to be coming towards that same conclusion that the tumblers of the safe are aligning,
and something big is going to happen.
And I think it's going to happen certainly during the next year or two.
I hope I'm wrong. I like electricity. I like the Internet.
I like supermarkets full of food.
It's been good being with you today, and Alex will be back tomorrow,
and we'll continue this conversation.
This 4th of July, especially, everybody can see it, they can feel it.
The globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their tyranny.
And America, yet again, is at the heart of the resistance, the globalist.
That's why this 4th of July, I'm asking all of our great supporters to think about
Info Wars now more than ever, and what would the world be like if Info Wars
wasn't there resisting the globalist?
What would have happened if you hadn't supported Info Wars?
We would not be having the victories we have today, so yes,
a lot of good things are happening, but the enemy is striking back, so please,
think about Info Wars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time
on the 4th of July that's so historic.
We have record sales going on right now, free shipping on hundreds of different items,
more than 20 items are 50% off, like Brainforce Plus, X2 is 40% off,
Knockout Sleep Aid 1776, Silver Bullets 9.95 gold silver, and free shipping,
you can't beat that.
This 4th of July is special, and our sales are special to match it.
InfoWarsStore.com
you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
