And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation, it's Olin Shroyer.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
That's right, taking back America.
President Trump is standing up for America right now to NATO that's been ripping us five
ways from Sunday, standing up for truth in the face of Theresa May telling her exactly
what immigration has done to her country and Europe.
And President Trump is in London right now.
There are some festivities going down, including some Trump protesters.
Let's see what our Paul Joseph Watson has to say about them.
Look at this proud member of the resistance.
She flipped off Trump's motorcade.
So stunning.
So brave.
Move over, Tankman.
There's a new protest icon in town.
Oh, but wait.
I now believe this was the motorcade on the way to pick him up from Stanford.
However, sentiment still very much stands.
Middle finger still proudly raised.
It has rotted.
I've been astray.
In everything you've ever done.
We were backing off in inanimate objects.
He flipped off Olinia's suitcases and some low-paid drivers who were just trying to do
their job.
Trump wasn't even in the car.
Not all heroes wear capes.
Look at this amnesty international idiot.
So we've just unveiled a giant 15 by 3 meter banner on Voxel Bridge facing the new U.S.
Embassy.
Yeah, it's so giant that nobody can even tell what it says and it can't even be seen
from the U.S. Embassy.
Well done, mate.
Bravo.
It's about as giant as the size of these anti-Trump protests in Regent's Park and outside Blenheim
Palace.
A downing street where one person showed up and asked where everyone else was.
It was about as loud as the sound coming out of this protest as pathetic plastic whistle.
You want to keep them up, won't you?
Yeah.
You need to be a bit nicer than that.
The carnival about to begin, folks.
Believe me, it's going to be huge.
I don't believe you.
Protesters in the U.K. have rallied to make Green Day's 2004 hit song American Idiot top
singles charts ahead of President Trump's first official visit.
American Idiot lyrics analysis.
And can you hear the sound of hysteria?
One nation controlled by the media.
Yeah, sounds like those lyrics were written by Trump.
So you got a song to number one that talks about a hysterical media controlling the nation
with propaganda.
Which is Trump's main talking point at every single rally he attends.
The dishonest media.
Fake news.
Well done, idiots.
Crappy U.K. company tries to get free publicity with anti-Trump virtue signaling.
Backfires horribly.
We can make a hundred of these baby Trump U.K. visit balloons.
Will you buy them?
Judging by the responses to this tweet, no one's buying anything from you ever again.
So why are you all protesting Trump's visit to the U.K.?
Because I'm literally a communist.
Oh, OK.
That makes sense.
Did you find Obama deporting three million people unconscionable?
Yes.
You've been put up many families.
Yes, I did.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
And that's why I also protested.
Where was your protest march against Obama in this country as well?
Where was your protest march against Obama?
And you found that unconscionable too.
Where was the march?
Because that's why, and that's why I...
And that's why, and that's why...
I'm literally a communist.
Are you protesting because Trump's a misogynist?
Because he said, grab them by the pussy 13 years ago.
Right.
So you must've been up in arms about the arrival of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to the
U.K. on a state visit.
A man who oversees a regime under which women need male guardian approval to travel or open
a bank account.
A regime under which women are imprisoned and tortured for not wearing a hijab, a regime
which is ranked 141 out of 144 for women's rights.
A man who oversees a regime that bombs women and children in Yemen.
You must have packed the streets for his arrival, right?
Are you protesting because you think Trump's anti-media rhetoric represents a threat to the free press?
Right, so you must have been up in arms about the arrival of Turkish President Erdogan to the UK on a state visit.
An Islamist dictator who oversees a regime that imprisons more journalists than any other country.
A man who, before he even left London on his last visit, called those imprisoned journalists terrorists.
A man who has eliminated over 100 media outlets by decree since 2016.
A man whose goons beat up protesters in Washington DC.
You must have packed the streets for his arrival, right?
Are you protesting because you think Trump's literally Hitler is trying to impose it?
Alright, that's Paul Joseph Watson.
He's going to be joining us at 12.30 Central.
I can sense the supreme victory. We'll be right back.
An acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
It is Friday, July 13th, 2018. This is the Alex Jones show.
Filling in for Alex Jones, I am Owen Schreuer.
And I can sense supreme victory.
I don't know about you, but I wanted a worldwide revolution.
I don't know about you, but I wanted a revolution against the corruption in American politics.
And here we are smack dab in the middle of our revolution.
And you see the minions in the streets. You see the sheeple in the streets.
You see the lap dogs and the mockingbird media on television.
You see the Democrat Party just outright lying.
Truly incredible as you see President Trump standing up for the United States of America to NATO.
Telling Theresa May, you have destroyed your country with immigration.
Yes, President Trump is the man we elected.
And he has now been, I think, is he with the Queen now, guys? Do we have that footage?
He's arriving in London either way.
There is the footage right there. President Trump is getting out of the car and he is set to meet with the Queen.
In fact, this is happening. Is this live right now, guys?
Will President Trump kiss the Queen?
Will Trump kiss a goblin?
It does not appear so.
We also have Rod Rosenstein announcing a special, what did he call it guys, a special law announcement or something?
So Rosenstein is about to hold a press conference today.
Boy, I wonder if this has anything to do with his testimony where he got grilled and seared and then Peter Stroke's testimony where he got grilled and seared.
And I've got tons of clips that we're going to get to from the Peter Stroke testimony.
Truly incredible stuff.
The story is at infowars.com, the evil face of the deep state, the disturbing faces of Peter Stroke.
Now, this is actually quite disturbing.
I mean, I guess you could probably take any broadcast that we do here and get funny faces and then we make funny faces.
This is like beyond just the funny face that you might capture from anybody doing a live broadcast.
This is just strange.
This is like, what is this guy?
And oh, yeah.
Oh, no.
And there's this weird, there's this weird gift where he like does like a little shimmy and has like this little wicked smile and he like puckers his lips or something.
Everybody here.
Look, the overall story for me today.
And I can equate almost all of the news on the desk that I have here today is to victory.
Victory in our revolutionary war for truth, victory in our revolutionary war for justice.
And while we're not to the finish line, we are just plowing forward right now.
So if you're watching the Peter Stroke testimony yesterday, which we're going to have all the clips on on the other side.
You're seeing how pathetic these people really are.
So there's two dynamics happening.
The Democrats are being exposed for how partisan and pathetic they are where they, they go back to Russia, they go back to kids in cages at the stroke testimony yesterday.
So just total insane behavior, interrupting the Republicans during their time.
Just like, you know, a first grader that can't behave themselves that has to go sit in the back of the room or something.
That's what the Democrat Party has now become.
But then you think about Peter Stroke and you think this guy was an FBI agent, this nitwit, this FOP, this nothing, this nobody, this freak show.
This is the guy.
This is the guy at the FBI who's investigating Hillary Clinton's email and private server.
This is the guy sleeping around with Lisa Page, who's on the Mueller team investigating the Russia probe.
This is the guy saying he's going to stop the president.
No wonder President Trump has no fear of these people.
They're a bunch of losers.
They are a bunch of ninnies.
Think about it.
Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, Chuck Schumer, Peter Stroke, you put these people in a room.
They can't even hold a candle to Donald Trump.
And they're all being exposed right now.
And so everything you're seeing is our revolutionary war taking its foothold.
That's what this is.
You're going to have President Trump for two more years, probably six.
Think about that.
Another Supreme Court justice.
Can you imagine the protest for that?
So all of the news today, I can equate to victory.
Now specifically, you look at these headlines from Yahoo fighting fake news with the law from Associated Free Press, the online battle for the truth.
And yesterday, YouTube trying to censor fake news somehow Info Wars still exists.
The Guardian, Hillary Clinton attacks Trump for all out war on truth facts and reason.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the translation for all of these headlines.
Info Wars is winning and we don't know what to do.
Info Wars news is completely accurate and we keep being wrong and we don't know what to do.
We've tried to call them fake news.
We've tried to call them racist.
We filed a bunch of frivolous lawsuits.
We've made a bunch of false claims and they keep winning.
This is not how we made the world to operate.
People aren't allowed to have choice when it comes to news.
No, if we tell them it's fake news, it's fake news.
If we tell them there was a ship sunk in the Gulf of Tonkin, we're going to war.
If we tell them there was a lone shooter that killed JFK, they buy it.
What's going on here?
Well, the American people woke up and we just started to smell the coffee
just in the nick of time to get Donald Trump elected, save us from Hillary Clinton,
and now get victory after victory after victory after victory after victory after victory.
Feds collect record individual income taxes through June.
Okay, let's see. How many records has President Trump had in a year and a half?
Record low unemployment.
Record low black unemployment.
Record low Latino unemployment.
Record low female unemployment.
Record number of females in his administration.
How many different records has he hit on the jobs market?
Record number of jobs growth.
Record number GDP growth.
Record number stocks market. Just records and records and records and just rewriting the record book.
President Donald Trump.
And what does the corporate media tell you?
Russian hacking.
Russian hacking is responsible for your own freedom and your own prosperity.
And they can't defeat info wars, so they keep going back to the fake news.
So Rod Rosenstein is now having a live press conference.
Guys, let's pause that. We're going to a break now.
We're going to carry that on the other side. We'll get to the Peter Stroke clips.
But folks, the growth that you've seen at info wars is only possible with your support at infowarstore.com.
And I got to tell you, Alex doesn't talk about this too much.
But the new studio that we are building right now is so awesome.
It is probably the most advanced high tech studio in news media.
When we reveal this thing, it's going to be incredible and it's all possible with your support at infowarstore.com.
So I salute you, but I urge you continue to support us at infowarstore.com and we will continue to grow.
We will continue to manifest our destiny of being the number one news in the world.
That's what we do. We change the game. We change the status quo.
We have bigger cojones than every other news outlet in the world combined.
Get it? And it's all possible with your support at infowarstore.com.
Last chance, fourth of July super sale, free shipping store wide, 50% off top selling items like
Brainforce Plus, SuperMail and Superfemale Vitality.
It's all at infowarstore.com. You make it all possible.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality.
Can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Health care reform is confusing.
But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions,
navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
1 of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
InfoWars Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
And now your host, Owen Troyer.
We're taking America back.
That's why the deep state's panicking and the signs are everywhere, ladies and gentlemen.
Quite a feeling.
Quite a sight to behold.
And it's really amazing that so many people are missing out on this entirely.
Not us, not you.
We will go down as brothers and sisters of history.
As patriots that stood up for what's right.
And fought the good fight.
And we will go on till the end.
Guaranteed.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
Owen Troyer filling in for Alex today.
We've got Rod Rosenstein.
The swamp creature goblin that a Luke Anon has said has ties to Seth Rich.
And I will just leave it at that.
You can look at Jack Berkman's press conference and interview with us that I have clips of on the Alex Jones channel on YouTube.
But regardless, he has called, I guess, some emergency last second press conference.
Nobody seems to know why.
But it's President Rod Rosenstein, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the state, unelected.
He'll bring America down with Peter's stroke and Lisa Page.
Let's go to the fake president, Rod Rosenstein.
Good afternoon.
Today, a grand jury in the district.
I don't even know how to work a microphone.
I'm the department of justice.
I'm the department of justice.
Oh, my gosh.
Okay.
Okay.
Now I know what's going on.
The defendants are charged with conspiring to hack into computers, steal documents, and release those documents.
All right.
All right.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
All right.
You guys tried to hear the c-span audio.
It's all right.
We're just wargaming here live on air.
Because I know what he's about to say.
The c-span is better.
Let's just go live to c-span.
Because I know what he's going to say here.
And this audio is bothering me.
So let's just go live to c-span.
There's no allegation that the conspiracy changed the vote count or affected any election result.
The special counsel's investigation is ongoing.
There will be no comments, the special counsel, at this time.
Assistant Attorney General John DeMers is here with me today because we intend to transition
responsibility for this indictment to the Justice Department's National Security Division
while we await the apprehension of the defendants.
Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General Ed O'Callaghan is also with me and he's been
assisting in managing the special counsel investigation.
I want to caution you, the people who speculate about federal investigations usually do not
know all of the relevant facts.
We do not try cases on television or in congressional hearings.
Most of them are-
Alright, just bring him down for a second.
But now he's like making an excuse for why they won't give you answers.
So this is really incredible what's happening right now.
They're bringing back up the Mueller indictments of the Russians and they assume that the American
public is so stupid they're not even going to know the full story which is that the Russians
already showed up.
So now they're apparently saying the military, the Russian military is behind it.
Folks, they're going full panic right now.
This is unbelievable.
They think people are going to buy this and Trump's about to meet with Putin.
Oh, this is so glorious, let's go back to the Rosenstein.
We follow the rule of law, which means that we follow procedures and we reserve judgment.
We complete our investigations and we evaluate all of the relevant evidence before we reach
any conclusion.
Unless it's Hillary Clinton.
That is how the American people expect their department of justice to operate and that
is how our department is going to operate.
In our justice system, everyone who's charged with a crime is presumed innocent unless and
until proven guilty.
Unless you're Trump.
It should go without saying.
So Hillary always innocent even when guilty, Trump always guilty even when innocent.
The indictment was returned today because prosecutors determined that the evidence was sufficient
to present these allegations to a federal court.
What is this 1984 universe that I'm living in?
It's based solely on the facts, the law, and the Department of Justice policy.
I have nothing left but laughter for this madness.
All these allegations earlier this week, the president is fully aware of the department's
actions today.
So they're trying to sully President Trump's meeting with Putin coming up next week on
Monday.
That's what they're trying to do right here.
No, don't you meet with Putin.
They were trying to hack the election.
And of course, the whole thing is a joke because they're sitting here with this false notion
that Trump is actually working for Putin.
Do you see how mad this entire thing is?
So are they going to go full jump the shark and say the Russian military hacked the United
States election for Donald Trump to win?
Is that what they're trying to do here?
Because that, I mean, if they're real in their diagnosis of the election being a Russian
hack job, then you would assume they have to retreat back to that stance.
But they know it's such a lunatic thing that they're not going to do it.
And so now they're just going to say, oh, the Russian military hacked Trump, you can't
meet with Putin.
Don't go meet with Putin.
They're hacking us.
They're our enemy.
Even though they're telling Trump he is Putin's puppet, this is, I mean, I have nothing
left but just laughter for this hysteria.
This lunatic fringe society that the deep state is trying to foist upon us here.
Trump colluded with Russia.
Let's go back to Rosenstein.
The indictment was returned today because prosecutors determined that the evidence was
sufficient to present these allegations to a federal grand jury.
Our analysis is based solely on the facts, the law, and Department of Justice policies.
I briefed President Trump about these allegations earlier this week.
The President is fully aware of the department's actions today.
On my remarks, I have not identified the victims.
When we confront foreign interference in American elections, it's important for us to avoid
thinking politically as Republicans or Democrats, and instead to think patriotically as Americans.
Our response must not depend on which side was victimized.
The Internet allows foreign adversaries.
This is unbelievable, but here, but pause it, or just pull it down.
Every claim they're making is the Russians hacked the DCCC, the Russians hacked the DNC,
the Russians hacked the Hillary campaign.
So here he is saying, oh, it's not about the campaign or which side or anything.
This whole, it's, that's what it's been from the beginning.
This whole thing started because of Trump-Russia collusion.
I mean, they're trying to pull the wall over your eyes.
This is unbelievable.
So what is next?
I mean, nobody believes this crap, no one.
Are you having fun yet or what?
Let's go.
It's moving downhill.
It just keeps picking up more momentum.
Oh, but don't worry, it's going to be smashed when it gets to the bottom.
Is it Trump-Russia collusion?
Is it Russian hacking?
What happened to Seth Rich?
Who is Rod Rosenstein?
Oh, boy, they are in panic mode right now.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids, $39.95 in free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your flyswatter.
Get your bug assault today.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Schipp.
I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Many someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow
government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis, and our government is now being run and ruled by a
shadow government.
We've got to get this out, because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church, and to get
them right now at killingunclesambook.com.
Killingunclesambook.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from M4s.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist.
It is you, the info warriors across the planet, that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats, that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team, supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the info ward.
And now, because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the renaissance and we are winning, we all know that the outside toxins in the
water is a serious health issue.
Info wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The pro pure whole house water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems.
It's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
This news breaking right now is so crazy.
I'm going to have to take some brain force so I can cover it accurately.
I need the crew to bring me some brain force, please does.
I'm telling you, I don't think there is no one else.
I don't think that's going to tell you what's going on here, folks.
Thank you.
Oh, a fresh brain force to look at that freshly sealed 50% off right now at info wars store
dot com.
So I'm about to break all this down, but I'm telling you, I just wanted to take some
brain force here to make sure that I'm fully focused and I can do this with focus and accuracy
here because I don't know if there's anywhere.
I mean, there's, there's plenty of places, but with the reach of info wars and with the
the left watching us monitoring everything we do, I just want to be perfectly coherent
with this.
I'm going to, I'm going to knock down to brain force here real quick.
Okay.
Thank you to the crew for bringing me that brain force 50% off right now at info wars
store dot com.
Check out all the five star ratings for yourself.
Okay.
This is truly wacky wild stuff that's happening right here.
Rod Rosenstein calls a press conference to best of my knowledge and everyone here in
the last like 12 hours.
We've got it still queued up.
We'll go back to it here in a moment.
He calls a press conference and he announces that Robert Mueller has indicted 12 Russian
officers and now they're trying to link this to essentially the Russian military is what
they're saying, but there's some weird shenanigans happening with this deal.
And this is why I'm just trying to stay focused and report this accurately because it's so
it's so twilight zone out there.
It's almost like I can't even believe what I'm reporting even though I know it's true.
So this headline Mueller indides 12 Russian officers for hacking Dems in 2016 guys pull
up drudge report so I can see what drudge report headline is right now.
And is it this daily beast story that I have?
Is that a link to the daily beast?
Okay.
So the drudge headline Russian military charged with hacking DNC Hillary campaign state elections.
So they're moving forward now with the Russian hacking claim.
Okay.
Thank you.
So now it's linking to yahoo.
So there's a new story on yahoo from the Associated Press.
But okay, so I'm just trying to focus here.
Let's rewind the clocks back.
What was it?
Five, six months, maybe more than that.
Mueller indides the 12 Russians and the quote unquote Russian entities, which were essentially
these agencies that was running the quote unquote social media troll farms, which by
their own admission and even roses seen in this most recent press conference admit that
it was going both ways pro Hillary and pro Trump anti Hillary and anti Trump.
So there was no real agenda or plan to manipulate the elections more to just so discord in the
United States, which the Russians don't need to do the Democrats are great at that Obama
mastered that for eight years.
But I'm getting off track.
Okay.
So Mueller indicts those Russians months ago.
It's a huge news story.
The media celebrates like this is the be all end all we got them.
And then what happens?
Well they really did the indictments for the headlines.
They weren't expecting this to actually reach a court.
They weren't expecting the Russians to show up and then oops, the Russians did show up
for court and the lawyers representing them demanded discovery.
What did Robert Mueller do?
He balked.
He walked away.
He then said that he didn't have enough evidence yet so that he couldn't show up in court, even
though you don't indict someone until you have all the evidence.
So you know he's lying about that.
He wasn't expecting the Russians to show up.
So what happens?
They just leave that case out there and because that blows up in their face, they retreat
and then they re-indite the same Russians, leave out the agencies quote-unquote entities
and then bring in different claims of Russian government hacking, military hacking with
specific sites and they basically say we're relaunching a whole new lawsuit because we
blew the last one.
So we're going to launch a whole new indictment campaign against these Russians.
Now they're going to have to re-lawyer up and we'll see what they do next.
But this is just another fake victory, Tokyo Rose Baghdad Bob of the deep state trying to
tell people we got the Russians, don't lose faith, Trump's not legitimate.
It's all fake.
It's all Russian.
No, you're all fake.
You are the ones that colluded with Russia, with Uranium One, with payments for Bill
Clinton, with the fake Russian dossier.
You've got egg all over your face and you're pointing at everyone else and saying, ha ha,
look at the egg on your face when you know damn well it's all over your own.
And so here's Rod Rosenstein in a fake victory for the deep state saying we're indicting
these 12 Russians that they already indicted, who already showed up in court and who Mueller
balked at.
Let's go back to Rosenstein.
The internet allows foreign adversaries to attack America in new and unexpected ways.
Free and fair elections are always hard fought and contentious.
There will always be adversaries who seek to exacerbate our divisions.
Like the Democrats.
Try to confuse, divide and conquer us.
Democrats.
So long as we are united in our commitment to the values enshrined in the Constitution,
they will not succeed.
A partisan warfare.
See, I'm telling you, oh man, I'll tell you, I have faith in the American people that they're
going to see through this.
This SOB is sitting here saying that Russia is trying to sow discord and contentiousness
in this country as it's his own fake investigation, his own fake press conference.
He and Mueller's fake indictments that are doing just that.
The unmitigated nerve of these people tells you they have some serious business that they're
trying to divert from.
Let's go back to the goblin.
Modern technology does not fairly reflect the grace, dignity and unity of the American
people.
The blame for election interference belongs to the criminals who committed election interference.
We need to work together to hold the perpetrators accountable, and we need to keep moving forward
to preserve our values, protect against future interference, and defend America.
I have time to take a few questions.
All right.
The timing today on the eve of the President's meeting with Putin, can you talk about that?
And also, just today, the President described the Mueller investigation as a witch hunt.
As I mentioned, it's a function of the collection of the facts, the evidence and the law.
This is such BS.
You're trying to sabotage the Trump-Putin summit, you little weasel.
With regard to the nature of the investigation, I only comment on the evidence.
The evidence of my...
Bring him down.
Bring him down.
Because I...
I want to...
So are they now saying, folks, this is breaking right now, and I'm sitting here in studio.
I haven't been able to hear the whole press conference, and I've only got one new story,
guys.
I'm supposed to print me other news stories on this so I can read up on this, but I'm
trying to figure this out.
Are they now claiming...
So they're...
I know that they're claiming that these Russians have hacked the DNC, the DCCCC, and the Hillary
campaign.
Okay.
Well, they've always been claiming that.
So there's nothing really new there, but are they now saying that the Russians actually
hacked into the electronic voting machines and rigged the election?
Are they now saying that?
I mean, the headline on Drudge is implying that.
I haven't heard Rosenstein say that.
I mean, just say that frankly, but he seems to be tiptoeing around it, too.
Okay.
Are they now...
Are they now going to say the election was illegitimate because Russia hacked it?
Are they now going to go full bore with that fake news?
All right, well, if they do, let's have a joint campaign for paper ballots again.
I don't trust the electronic voting machine, so let's just have paper ballots.
If you're going to claim Russia's hacking everything, let's go to paper ballots.
Oh, but they won't do that.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Add to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Thank you for watching.
Iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can
also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without
you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering
that it's not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and
it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second
American Revolution. Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be
a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the global celebrity society several
years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest most concentrated over
the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe I know from using this myself the last
few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end
up being the number one best-selling product infowarslife.com because it works so well this is
a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info war so it's a
total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available infowarslife.com for
yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities
and it's made in the USA get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com everybody needs to try alpha
power today you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula
is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract L tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with
the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the
power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed
and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and
beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the
power of knockout head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right it's clearing up to me now we're all racing around here trying to figure out what the
hell's going on i want to correct something i said in the last segment it is not the same russians
it is not the same russians this is a new group of russians the news is so crazy
story is still the same because the the original indictments that i have right here
that were filed in the district of columbia i don't see a date on this okay yeah there it
is filed in february so this is the original mewler russia indictment that they celebrated that was
filed in february and these russians the quote unquote troll farms these russians were indicted
by mewler showed up in court demanded discovery mewler balk walked away and you never heard
anything more from this case at all okay now again i inaccurately reported in the last segment
that it was the same 12 russians in the new indictments that is not true i now have the
indictment in front of me and it is 12 totally different russians now briefing through this
in the break is pretty much exactly what you would expect they're claiming that the russian
military with these 12 people engaged in hacking us elections hacking the democrats so so so so
so they don't mention anything to my knowledge in going through this briefly about any hacking of
republicans or attempted happening hacking of republicans so i'm not sure if that's because
none of that happened or if they were unable to do so but they're saying they hacked the dnc the
d triple c the hillary campaign and working with wiki leaks dc leaks and goose for 2.0 they staged
the release of said documents to the public to quote interfere in the united states elections
now let's say let's say that that is accurate information let's take this report for what it
is and say that's accurate information well i would say thank you russia how about you why
would the documents have affected the election so much unless it exposed corruption from inside
the democrat party and the hillary clinton campaign which it did now whether you believe these indictments
are real or not and these people were behind the hacking it doesn't matter because the documents
got out we read them we saw the emails we know who hillary is we know who the democrats are
are that doesn't change but they think they can divert the attention off of all of their corruption
by crying russian collusion trumps russian trump never won the presidency
even though they are the ones that tried to rig the election they are the ones that did
rig the primary and it's i mean it's a joke i mean this is insane president trump goes from
city to city and gets tens of thousands of people to come out to hear him speak that is the president
of the united states there is no one else there is no russians organizing tens of thousands of
people to see donald trump that's donald fricking trump that's the us of a and you think you can
distract us with some russian collusion bullcrap you're gonna tell us that the second american
revolution is some russian front bogus bull this is america standing up to you and i don't care
it was russia that hacked them it was set the rich that hacked them if it was goose fur that
hacked them if it was someone sitting in their couch 300 pound hacker i don't care who it was
we got them we caught all of you we caught peter stroke we caught rod rozenstein we caught the
democrats we're not going to be distracted by your stupid fricking indictments what's let's
let's review some of these headlines here this is nbc i don't know the date this is older news
though russians penetrated us voter systems top u.s official says another one
indiana joins idaho claiming dhs tried to hack their election systems another one again these
are all old stories homeland security tried to attempt hack of george's election database
so you had a series of those but then you had dhs come out and say no we have no intelligence
that anybody hacked these systems or compromised the state's voting systems and now they're tiptoeing
around that narrative as far as i can see they're not committing to it but they want you to think
that's what happened show me the red wave put the red wave full screen give me the red wave full
screen give it give me full screen no no i want just the red wave this is what you get
ladies and gentlemen this is the future of america we are standing up together the democrat party is
dead the left has gone totally insane the red wave is coming and so on the eve of trump meeting
with putin they come out with this fake indictment over these russians with this fake narrative on
the eve of the united states of america coming back breaking the shackles they tell you it's all
russian collusion story nothing to see here guess what we're not buying it and on the eve of the
midterm elections what do they do they make sure that they have their people own all of the proprietary
software that gets installed on the electronic voting machines so that they can they can rig
the final outcome but watch what happens next when they go totally insane and claim the russians
are hacking the electronic voting machines and then we have to go back to paper ballots they
don't want that if you had a paper ballot election donald trump would win 80 million to i don't know
20 million wouldn't even be close and they know it and they've cornered themselves all right
let's go back to rod rosensee here to conclude this segment the goblin creature
forcing fake news upon us today comment on the evidence the evidence that reflects is reflected
in our indictments and in our charges represents a determination by prosecutors and agents without
regard to politics that we believe the evidence is going to be like obama of the charges harry
yes deputy attorney general i know you've talked about the fact that in your view the evidence
doesn't show any votes were changed as a result of this hacking but you did say that a company
used as a pass through coordinated with these defendants to enhance the timing of the release
and the impact on the election can you talk a little bit about what the evidence you have
shows in that respect what i've talked about today is what is alleged in the indictment
alleged we know according to the allegations in the indictment the goal of the allegations
in fact in the election what impact they may have had or what their motivation you have nothing
of what's required to you have nothing a little twist as a matter of speculation that's not our
responsibility what i said is there's no allegation in the indictment about it and that's not we're
shaking these losers off our backs in terms of the state election information set up about 500,000
voters information was collected is there any evidence that what what the russians did with
that information and is there any evidence of other states being successfully penetrated by the
russians i think that it's important for you to understand what i've told you are the allegations
that are included in the indictment the fbi and other intelligence community agencies now if there
was a real journalist in this media scrum right here they'd say um uh um nitwit rozenstein do you
plan on launching any investigations upon the damning exposure that was in the actual documents
that was released the rigging of the primaries uh the rigging of the presidential debates do you
plan on doing any investigations into what was exposed from those documents or are you just
going to let hillary slide again share any relevant intelligence with all of our partners it would take
a longer time to talk about this but there is a concerted and organized effort by the federal
government to make sure that we do deter and prevent any sort of cyber attacks on our elections
and that we let's go to paper ballots to prevent against yeah kind of intrusions let's go to paper
ballots see but this is what they're going to do thank you we're going to break now you can take
them out this is what they're going to do then now they're going to try to say that dhs has to run
all elections the states and local governments don't get to even monitor them at all they're
going to give it all over the federal government that's what he just said this is how they're
going to rig the next election you're going to get beat man you you you keep fighting you keep
digging yourself a hole deeper and deeper don't you you just can't give up you just can't let go
you just had to drown this country didn't you you just had to choke us to death didn't you
and now that we're breathing and swinging back you still think you have us in your clutches
you don't we're free
this 4th of july is special everybody can see it they can feel it the globalists are attempting to
kill a worldwide awakening to their tyranny and america yet again is at the heart of the resistance
to the globalist that's why this 4th of july i'm asking all of our great supporters to think about
info wars now more than ever and what would the world be like if info wars wasn't there resisting
the globalist what would have happened if you hadn't supported info wars we would not be having
the victories we have today so yes a lot of good things are happening but the enemy is striking
back so please think about info wars and funding our operation while you get great products at
the same time on the 4th of july that's so historic we have record sales going on right now
free shipping on hundreds of different items more than 20 items are 50 off like brain force plus
x2 is 40 off knockout sleep aid 1776 silver bullets 995 little silver and free shipping
you can't beat that this 4th of july is special and our sales are special to match it info wars
store dot com do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread
the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globalist
it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the
peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've
been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war
and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone
go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and
so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
you know this is actually interesting rod rozenstein and robert muhler claim
well actually they're alleging they don't even claim to know this for sure there's they're they're
they're alleging that the russians hacked the d triple c and the dnc but this is confusing to me
because the d triple c and the dnc refused to turn their servers over so how does rod rozenstein
and robert muhler know that when they didn't cooperate with the investigation and refuse
to turn their servers over boy that is an amazing assumption to make wonder how they reached that
conclusion of course they didn't conclude that they're just alleging that like paul maniforte
being in jail for alleged attempting i don't care what you put behind that you can't lock
someone up for alleged attempting this is america so i'm now joined by larry claimant the founder
of judicial watch and freedom watch where you can see his work at freedom watch usa dot org
short segment here larry will be with us for two more segments on the other side but i mean larry
this is pretty incredible stuff considering everything we've seen from the fake russian
collusion probe for them to now reach this point right before trump meets with putin
what does it tell you does it tell you how desperate they are or do you really believe
that the russians are responsible for all this hacking oh and you raised an excellent point yeah
how do they know this if they don't have access to the dnc servers and of course they don't have
access the fbi and and muller because what's on those dnc servers will be extremely incriminating
for the democratic national committee hillary clinton and others but yeah this is political
hackery this is exactly what we've seen with robert muller it's more than a witch hunt they're
trying to impede they're trying to destroy this summit with the vladmer putin which is coming
up in just a day or so and it's quite obvious why this was done now and the fact that you have
this very corrupt deputy attorney general rozenstein announcing this on behalf of muller and
behalf of the justice department with inner attorney general of sessions who raises head in
the sand because he too is under investigation by muller for alleged russian collusion it tells you
that our justice department has become a political entity it's not a department of justice anymore
it's an department of injustice yeah and what does it tell you that rod rozenstein is out here
making the statement and and sessions is nowhere to be found i mean it's almost like they're they're
pushing rozenstein on us just to rub it in our face absolutely well you know he's on a jihad
rozenstein literally because he's been stung by certain people in capitol hill that asked him
tough questions of course nothing happens on capitol hill but he doesn't like the questions
anyway and he doesn't like the president criticizing him directly and indirectly
and he's probably on orders from sessions who you know the president would like to see gone
to do a number on trump at this point it's warfare between the president and the justice
department it's warfare between the american people and the justice department and oh and i'm a
alumnus of the justice department i'm absolutely disgusted at this whole thing and that's why we're
actually going to be doing our own grand juries for the american people in dalas and other places
because we need to take justice into our own hands we don't have a justice system anymore
we'll do it peacefully and legally but we have the right to in panel to indict to try to convict
sentence and even do citizens arrest peacefully and legally the clinton's comie moeller intelligence
agency chief senator obama and obama himself are our prime target so this is a justice department
which is spinning wildly out of control which does not represent the interests of either
president trump or the american people and rod rozenstein is the poster boy of the corruption
over there i want to talk more about that on the other side because i mean that's just an incredible
move that that you're making over there at freedomwatchusa.org and i'd like to talk about that but
you know isn't it funny larry when you founded judicial watch what was it just over 20 years ago
part of the original investigations were into hillary clinton and illegally having classified
documents isn't it funny that still to this day you're investigating the same damn thing
absolutely and we're not just investigating we're bringing cases i mean i have a lawsuit going up
to the supreme court for hillary's wrongful death actions which killed two of our client's sons ty
woodson shawn smith at ben gazi because her server was hacked and the terrorists found the
coordinates of ambassador chris stevens and killed everybody so we bring hard hitting cases i'm tired
oh and this is why and the people are tired of tired with you and we'll be right back with more
i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infostore.com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it
any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com i don't want to
thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults we've
got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well
infowarslife.com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
and now your host owin treuer larry claimant has been doing great work founded judicial watch
and is now running freedom watch usa.org larry i was unaware of this campaign that you talked about
in the last segment i'm not sure how much you've talked about this but i'd really like to hear
more about this what is it exactly that you are planning on doing with freedom watch usa.org to
bring justice to high treasonous criminals like clinton and obama that we don't get from the justice
department thank you all for raising that i'm tired of watching tv not info wars because you
guys tell it like it is and that's why i love being on here but offering this false hope that
something's going to happen we just saw the hearings on capitol hill yesterday yes it exposed who
peter struck is but congress isn't going to do anything our justice department is just doing
stuff which is negative which actually harms the president in the country and of course other
branches of government have been in or two so we need to take matters into our own hands and justice
antenin scalia in nineteen ninety two in a case style the united states versus williams
said that the grand jury doesn't belong to the three branches of government it belongs to the
american people now up to july first of eighteen seventy we didn't even have a justice department
so the american people needed to meet out justice and we have the right to do that under our
constitution so what i'm proposing to do in dallas philadelphia and other cities around the country
is to impanel grand juries from neutral voter rolls to put forward evidence we've got enough evidence
we don't need any more information here to indict the clinton's to indict muller to indict comie to
invite john brennan former head of the cia james clapper former head of the director of national
intelligence and obama himself we've got enough and then we will try these individuals in front of
either a retired judge or someone who's neutral we will obtain convictions i'm convinced the evidence
is overwhelming we will then sentence these individuals and will seek to arrest them peacefully
and legally what else what other choice do we have our country does not have a justice system
we have an attorney general and a deputy attorney general who are absent on the job and are actually
working against the american people and trying to destroy the president himself the president
who i think is doing a fantastic job and this of course get back to what rozenberg rozenberg
that's a freudian slip rozenstein did just today is that he's trying to derail the putin
trump summit he's trying to embarrass the president he's trying to humiliate the president
so as muller they're working together these people need to be removed now i also have on
on our website at freedomwatchusa.org a petition we have 25 000 plus names right now
to have me name special counsel so in addition to the citizen's grand juries if i was special
counsel the second one all these people i would have the powers of the justice department without
actually having to take orders from them and i would indict them convict them and have them
tried and sentenced as well so there aren't many people in this country in fact i don't know of
anyone if i can maybe toot my own horn a little bit here who will stick their neck out to this
degree you know alex will you will others will do it in the media side i have to do it in the
justice system and not even my former group does that they get documents but it's not run by a
lawyer i'm a lawyer of 40 years experience as a trial lawyer as a prosecutor i'll get the job done
i'll bring about justice well and imagine i mean you look at the total rogue state of the
muller probe right now imagine if if if larry clayman had a staff and the same rogue investigatory
tactics of muller to investigate muller to or investigate Pelosi in waters i mean it'd be
game over for these people and everybody knows that's the case of course that's the case you know
and so but but what can people do to help you spearhead this movement and to help help move it
forward well we need the resources we're small right now we're the mouse that roared we're powerful
but we need to get bigger these citizens grand jury's are going to be expensive and a lot of
logistics a lot of individuals involved so go to our website at freedomwatchusa.org
don't just sign the petition to have me name special counsel we need a hundred thousand
signatures to get the president's attention he's so preoccupied right now with serious crises
but also donate to our cause join our freedom watches justice league i just started this
because this movie for instance which i saw a couple times on the plane going back to
washington in the last few weeks really tells you that the american people can do it we are the
superheroes we don't have to depend on government no that's right you know that's right the superheroes
of justice league didn't look to the justice department to do it they did it for themselves
so it's a good analogy so go to freedomwatchusa.org donate to our cause it's tax deductible
sign the petitions get our newsletters become part of our citizens army our justice league
and look you know i'm this is hitting me more than ever right now larry and i know that you've
been there obviously i mean you've been working to just watch freedom watch and out you're not
organizing this i mean it's time to get active it's time to get engaged we as americans have a duty
to protect this republic it is under threat it is under siege right now our government's totally
corrupt it's been corrupt it's way too big we've got these huge global institutions like nato
that do nothing for us it's time to shut it all down people need to get engaged and active they
need to understand i'm not calling for a bunch of uh minion protests in the street we're not calling
for a bunch of craziness we're not calling for violence we're saying it's time for us to organize
it's time for everyone that listens to this show to go to freedomwatchusa.org sign the petition
tell your friends and family get engaged get active it's now or never folks we have the president in
the white house if we have his back he has every mandate to do whatever is possible to save this
republic you're right if he goes down we're gonna have a president a hundred times worse than obama
or clinton the next president we can't let that happen now he is our hope in terms of the government
but the american people remain their own hope as the justice league is their hope and if you're tired
of watching cable news not info wars but cable news and seeing this false hope being served up every
night you know i watch fox news too but it gives you the impression something's happening nothing's
happening we know nothing's happened we've been out there fighting the clinton's for 25 years
since i started judicial watching now i run freedom watch i have a finding that bill clinton
committed a crime when he released the hot privacy act protected files of a woman he harassed in the
oval office kathleen willie but now's the time that we have to do it for ourselves and our founding
fathers they risk their lives they pledge their fortunes and sacred honor to form a new nation
we can at least do citizens grand juries we have the legal right to do it justice galia said we have
the right to do it and we can even enforce it and and we're gonna have to do citizens arrest i always
say please we have the role well and even president trump said we're gonna give the government back
to the people you know what guys let's let's let's let larry get reconnected here and let's just
reconnect with larry we're about to go to a break here his skype was breaking up so so we'll get larry
back connected here with a solid connection before we go to this break um but but he's 100 spot on
trump said we have to give the government back to the people that is what larry is talking about
and i'm gonna get the i don't know if he's got dates yet of when he's planning on being in dallas
philadelphia but i want to help get this get this off the off the ground and even be present there
before we get to this break and we're rejoined by larry claiming on the other side um support
info wars at the same time folks we are free to air we don't get money to air our show we don't
have big corporate sponsors we have you the audience and it's your support at infowarstore.com
that makes everything possible and we are truly cranking at a higher level than we ever have here
before at info wars and i'm sure if you're a fan you're noticing that so i salute you the audience
for making it all possible take advantage of the extended fourth of july specials which is free
shipping store-wide 50 off top selling items like survival shield like brain force plus like silver
bullet like dna force plus super male and super female vitality it's all at infowarstore.com check
out the new super silver which is a topical wound care gel 25 off right now at infowarstore.com
check out the new t-shirts check out the ball caps this is how we fund what we do here
this is how we hire new people this is how we get satellites so that we can be on televisions
around the nation it's all possible with your support at infowarstore.com and if you're not
supporting us financially for whatever reason at least spread the links tell your friends and family
people are waking up they see what's going on they don't know where to go to understand it and put
it all together be like hey check out info wars and check out our new app we just got a new app
hey are you confused by all the fake news you want to find something that makes sense to you
get the new app info wars official it's the brand new app tell your friends and family about that app
share it make us bigger than every other news media outlet outlet combined we'll be right back with
larry claiming if you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love the
dillon living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste
and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dillon bottle increases
the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it alkaline
water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the dillon bottle makes it easy
and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dillon bottle today at dyln.co
that's dyln.co bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required
proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest
center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and
serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat
bacon.com ready to eat bacon.com this is dan pillard you owe the irs money you can't pay our
tax debts crippling you i've defended people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands
and i can help you too i wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such
thing as a hopeless case call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new
programs there's never been a better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no
tax or my website danpillard.com most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer
in the us what if i told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart
don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbextract.com or to order
call 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 hbextract.com don't risk it when you can take charge of it
the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the
most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one
of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing
properties our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric
with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full
body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at 188 253 3139 living in volcano
may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in leilani estates
but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need to be concerned about ash and
acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the ph of
the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals
alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and
acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter and not
only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored to optimal
levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain water supply but more importantly
a good water filtration system will purify it you're listening to the alex jones show
well larry claimant has dragon energy and he is spearheading a movement to unite the citizens
of america against individuals who have committed crimes of high treason against this country yes
you know who we're talking about and as far as i can tell i don't see anyone else pushing this
and for an organization of this like larry claimant is doing with freedom watch usa.org larry
is still with me for another segment larry you mentioned you are planning to have grand jury
events in dallas and philadelphia do you have a date set for those yet yes it's going to be in
and about as lawyers say the 25th of september we need time to ramp up we need to get names
off of voter rolls you know go to our website sign up we can use some volunteers here too
and we need to be able to put this in place but we're going to do it in a very very professional
ethical and legal way so it sticks and it's going to be powerful when we do it and we're
going to set an example and when we get those sentences we're going to show up in front of
the houses of these people hillary clinton and calorama washington turn yourself in hillary
because we have a right to arrest you and put you where you belong and we're going to ask for a
judge to enforce these sentences the result of our indictments and convictions with the citizens
grand juries so even if we don't have a judge do it we can do it on our own peacefully and legally
so yes in and around the september 25th keep posted on our website at freedomwatchusa.org
sign up donate support our cause this is really our only last hope and oh and you know we all watch
a fox news and we watch other networks and we see this false hope every night that something's
going to happen and i've been listening lately and i hear people saying wasn't it great that we got
more information out no it's not that great we have enough information to indict and convict
these criminals like hillary clinton and bill clinton right now we don't need any more information
what we need is action you know and this is something that's actually kind of been weighing
on my mind lately given just how absurd the news cycle has gotten how insane the left has gotten
where you know for me i'm sitting here reflecting upon what i do saying is it the best investment
of my time on the air to report all the fake news to cover all the stuff we know that you're
talking about it's like we already know this it's like sometimes i feel like i'm beating my head
against a wall and i think the solution is what you're doing and i want to do more of this here
at info wars where i mean yes we we need to cover the fake news to sort it all out because there's
people out there that genuinely don't understand all of it they're new to this and they want the
truth they want the answers but at a different level we have to organize we we have to now get
active we have to do things like start an independent grand jury of citizens like larry
claiming is doing we have to plan stunts like they do where they go out and and do a woman's
march you know as if trump is the first guy to ever say anything about you know a woman's
private parts in the history of mankind give me a break bill clinton was grabbing him his entire
life so that that to me is the next angle of info wars and i think that you're spearheading one
movement so let me know about when you're doing this in dallas because larry i want to be there
and i want to be covering it for info wars so just once again tell the audience where they
can go to get information and help out your cause to start an independent grand jury of citizens
to bring our own charges and a citizen's arrest against high treason and crime against this country
well thank you on for offering to do that i'd like to have what we're doing in real time on info wars
and uh you can be part of it and and everybody needs to be part of it but yes they can go to
freedom watch usa dot org freedom watch usa dot org that's org and sign up because we are deadly
serious about this we are going to bring these citizens grand juries we are going to be the
people's justice department we already are but we're putting it into effect now and i have 40
years of experience that i'm going to draw on to get the job done to turn this country back
to the vision of our founding fathers and to bring about a equal system of justice where the elites
where the arrogant fat cat elites in washington dc of both political parties walk off scott free
is there anything else you have up your sleeve right now or is this pretty much your focus
at freedom watch usa is this pretty much where you're you're investing all of your time and energy now
most of it but i do have other things up my sleeve for instance
uh on september 4th a judge in washington dc has ordered one of the few honest judges
is that was appointed by bill clinton a guy named emet sullivan that moeller's going to have to
release all of his documentation his emails of communications with the media and i'm convinced
that's going to show criminal grand jury leaks we're going to use that to have him indicted
with the citizens grand juries and we're also hopeful that once that comes out president trump
uh will summon up uh the strength because he's been getting bad advice from his lawyers to
finally fire moeller and to fire rozenstein and to fire sessions and clean house at the justice
department so yeah we have a lot of things and of course we have our case going to the supreme court
to hold hillary clinton accountable for the wrongful death of our gold star family's sons
thai woods and sean smith at then gazi because it was her use of a private email server which was
hacked probably by the terrorists which gave rise to the coordinates of the ambassador which then
allowed the terrorists to kill our client's sons she has blood on her hands so we're proceeding
with that too and and many other things you can see it at freedomwatchusa.org that we are constantly
bringing hard-hitting cases we're coming up with innovative but legal ideas like citizens grand
juries we just don't get documents the freedom of information act we actually take action we are your
justice department the real one and you know i sit here and i think about what you're saying and
i it's just like it's unbelievable that they're they're thinking about running hillary again
i mean this woman is halfway to hell she's been she's been caught red-handed breaking law after
law after law having a wide open illegal private server with classified information anybody can
come in get information get this information kill us soldiers and then she gets away with i mean i
honestly i just can't believe that we've reached this point now final comments from larry climbing
here before we let you go what do you think comes next as far as what trump does with this
Mueller investigation obviously you've called for him being fired but they're doubling down
they just did the press conference with rosenstein today they're indicting more russians they're
claiming they're hacking and everything so they're doubling tripling quadrupling down
do you see that trend continuing and what does trump do to stop it i see it continuing and that's
why i want to bring about the indictment of robert moeller i want him convicted i want him put away
because he's on a jihad right now literally no no less than a legal terrorist and the fact
that there was an indictment today of these russians was to try to destroy and to embarrass
and to humiliate him in his summit with ladmir putin these people are evil to the core they're
literally disciples of the devil if i might say analogously and they need to be taken out legally
and the president you know is not getting good advice from his own in-house lawyers because
he's just getting dragged along gets worse and worse and worse and now the american people
are going to have to rise up in his defense and in defense of their own interests i think that you
have coined a new phrase here i think robert moeller is a legal terrorist he is a legal terrorist
and this russia investigation that we know is fake they claim that they had this information
but the dnc the d triple c haven't even turned over the server so how do you have it larry
claiming thank you so much you're doing great work freedom watch usa dot org folks go to that
website support larry claiming we we have to do this if we're not going to take action
for justice and for the republic then who will i guess russia apparently will will america let's
see it we'll be right back i had great results i lost 70 pounds my weight 265 and went down to
195 my doctor told me if it works for you then do it a lot of people say to me how did you lose
the weight i said i take andrew 400 every day i'm gonna take it forever that was wal talking
about andrew 400 now listen to what bob has to say when you listen to your radio commercials you
say that's not possible but since i've experienced if your commercials aren't strong enough i am 76
and i've had a belly for way too long my whole body is shrinking my energy level has gone up and
don't think difference is andrew 400 it's great stuff i tried other products and nothing happened
guys if you'd like to lose stubborn belly fat gain energy and feel years younger try andrew 400
the safe natural and affordable way to boost your testosterone go to andrew400.com or call 888
400 0 4 3 5 888 400 0 4 3 5 andrew400.com
patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding
hey um i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info was in
prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my
dial-up internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and
followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration of survival
shield and since then i'm on the x2 the supermal vitality the caveman the real red pill micro zx
body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much it's
like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just
the more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there 1770s this worldwide
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info war's life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three
and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever
you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you
feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small
spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple
ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the
spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info
warslife.com that's info warslife.com the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is
constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're
bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill
plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features
the same great formula that supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural
caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill they quickly become one of our
fellow info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including
green tea extract your remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting
your mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's
also got the boost edit get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
we now take you live to the central texas command center and the heart of the resistance
and now your host owin shroyer
yes you hear the thunder that's the thunder of america baby
and all the corrupt bureaucrats and politicians are shaking in their little suits and ties
because they know the american people are awakened to all the crimes and lies that they have been
committing to for decades wow you know to think about rod rosenstein saying today
in this indictments in the indictments of the 12 russians that they know that it was the russians
that hacked the dnc and d triple c servers miraculously considering that the d triple c
and the dnc refused to turn those servers over and i still say if it was the russians that released
all of this data and all these documents on all the corruption going on in the democrat party
which then resulted in hillary losing because she was so corrupt and the democrats were so corrupt
is that not a good thing i don't know but in london we know this they hate donald trump
they really don't know why but they know they hate them and they're marching and they've got
their trump balloon and so paul joseph watching joins me now well paul are you having fun it seems
like you're having some fun with these protesters out there well it's always fun to highlight their
idiocy owin because they don't know what they're talking about we have this trump bloom a big event
one week or more probably 10 days of sustained hardcore intense media coverage mainstream media
coverage this was going to be the big event this was going to be the big rallying call
and this is not to say that they haven't got decent numbers in terms of protesters later on today
but this balloon event this was the big deal this was the the entire media play for the whole week
the massive the huge the gigantic trump balloon and they see on screen right there in the middle
of central london in the main square parliament square they got about what four five hundred
people max after one week of sustained mainstream media coverage this was a global story and you
have to consider the fact owin that tourists are milling around the area constantly so i'd say at
least a quarter of the bodies you see in that photograph are going to be tourists anyway at
least around the edges so it was a pathetic failure of course at the start of this some people reacted
in the wrong way some people on the right trump supporters were saying you know oh this is so
offensive they shouldn't be allowed to do that now that's not how you react that is getting
triggered the proper way to react is to laugh because this was completely pathetic it was
billed as a large protest as you see there bbc large-scale protests it was billed as a giant
huge balloon that would fly over parliament in fact if you go on my twitter account right now
there's a there's a meme that i posted what i expected and what i got and the way they promoted
it was that this would be flying over the houses of parliament it would be flying over london
they got it about 40 feet in the air you couldn't even see it over the nearest adjacent building so
nobody could see it unless they were in that sparse group of people within the square and it
was it was tiny it was too small to be seen it was up there in the air for less than two hours
then it came down people were asking me oh how do i find the trump balloon i want to go and see the
trump balloon it already come down by the time people were asking or by the time anyone cared
about it so the proper reaction was to laugh at it because you knew it was going to be a pathetic
failure and that's exactly what turned out to happen yeah i remember when they first released
this story a week or so ago they were they were dubbing it a blimp they were saying they have
they have confirmed the trump baby blimp uh blimps are actually big what you have there is a party
balloon that was pathetic yeah it's not exactly good year blimp size is it um but the the thing to
think about as well with this is you know we had a fundraiser i at least helped with it and they've
got a big event coming up next month for a sedeek karn baby balloon and the thing is even though
with intense 10 day media coverage for this trump blimp the giant blimp that wasn't they raised 30
thousand pounds and by the way how on earth does this party balloon cost 30 000 pounds that's about
40 000 dollars what on earth are they doing with that money by the way but we raised more money
than they did in 30 days in three days it shows you how pathetic the mainstream media is now
they can barely get 500 people to a protest it takes them a month to raise 30 000 pounds we did
it in three days and there's going to be a big event next month with people victims of violent
crime in london victims of the sedeek carnage getting up on stage giving speeches it's going to
be a big big protest event bigger than this one i can promise you that and hopefully a bigger balloon
but that's already completely funded in fact they're getting close to like 60 000 pounds at this
point which is about 80 000 dollars in about the space of a week with no positive mainstream media
coverage so again that just shows you how committed how loyal our audience and the true freedom the
true free speech audiences we completely kicked their butt on fundraising with no media attention
this was a complete failure and our event or at least the one that i'm supporting is going to be
a giant success and you've got the tommy robinson march tomorrow as well that that i'm expecting to
be massive but but i'm just curious so is the plan with the sedeek khan balloon is it to make it a
baby is that the plan yeah they're gonna make it a baby in fact what was funny sedeek khan was asked
himself by piers morgan a couple of days ago on television what if somebody made a giant pig balloon
of you and made it look like half like sedeek khan half like a pig would that be allowed you know
sounds pretty islamophobic to me would he allow that so the question remains they haven't got approval
for it yet they're still waiting for all the funding to come in so yeah they're going to have
this big protest event they're going to fly the sedeek khan baby balloon over the protest and it's
going to be huge it's going to be way bigger than this one with with no media coverage in comparison
by the way this is like oh and this is like you remember those hillary clinton rallies
where cnn had the cameras really in tight on the crowd so it looked like it was it was well attended
as soon as they drew back the arena was like three quarters empty that's the equivalent that
we're seeing yeah they couldn't even get they couldn't even get a full audience with lebron
james and jz nobody would even still show up to support hillary but hey you know what i gotta say
hey i think that they should and maybe you can help maybe you can pull some strings on this i think
they should change it they shouldn't go with the baby they should do sedeek khan and they should
dress him up like a terrorist with a bunch of blood on his hands and like a knife and stuff
that's what they should do that's a way more powerful message especially if you're going to
have the victims of all the violent crime crime speaking yeah yeah you could do something where
he's literally got blood on his hands because of the the soaring violent crime the acid attacks
that have taken place under his watch so they haven't designed it yet as far as i know they only
start the project like a week ago the money's still rolling in so the design for the balloon itself
which is being called a balloon it's not being called a blimp but the design for it is still open
so that's definitely would probably make more sense given the nature of the event yeah i think
that that would be really powerful imagery too considering the messages that are going to be
going on with it so but you've you've got the trump protests going on in london today and you've
got the tommy robinson march happening tomorrow i mean this is the people people in london are
really amped up right now paul they're hitting the streets every day well this is the thing i mean
there's there's some worthwhile protest another's not so worthwhile the idea of protest now you know
20 20 30 years ago the idea of taking part in a giant mass protest was seen as something that was
still quite rare like 20 30 years ago now it's literally every single weekend okay these aren't
working class people i was at the remain protest for staying in the EU you know overriding democracy
ignoring the vote it was all like old people old white people like 60 70 years old it was very odd
because of course the propaganda is oh young people voted against this this is all a young
people's movement it really wasn't but literally it's become like a day out for these people it's
not just the fact they get to virtue signal and take the selfie for their instagram feed or whatever
they literally bring like picnic hampers make a day of it meet their friends this is this is like
the new social activity is to have yet another meaningless protest and when you ask them what
they're protesting against like they did today and i've posted all the clips they do not even
know it's the social event it's a virtue signaling event and it's pathetic it needs to
it needs to stop because they're really not having any impact they don't know why they're
really is this is this your footage right here that they're showing is this you out on the streets
with them i tweet that's not me i tweeted that i tweeted that it's basically someone yelling at
a helicopter you need to get out there and question these people paul get into the arena paul joseph
watch and take them down take them face on crush their spirit this fourth of july is special everybody
can see it they can feel it the globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their
tyranny and america yet again is at the heart of the resistance the globalist that's why this fourth
of july i'm asking all of our great supporters to think about info wars now more than ever and what
would the world be like if info wars wasn't there resisting the globalist what would have happened
if you hadn't supported info wars we would not be having the victories we have today so yes a lot
of good things are happening but the enemy is striking back so please think about info wars
and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time on the fourth of july
that's so historic we have record sales going on right now free shipping on hundreds of different
items more than 20 items are 50 off like brain force plus x2 is 40 off knockout sleep aid 1776
silver bullets 995 little silver and free shipping you can't beat that this fourth of july is special
and our sales are special to match it info wars store dot com fueling your body is hard work that's
why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine
flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage
of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel
your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's
no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama
can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we
need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles
and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series
of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy
levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our alexa pure
gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also
restored to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the
water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it as the years go by it gets
harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural
ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins
and minerals needed daily that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion
formula the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion
uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs
to support your body using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for
a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different
essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great
tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info
war store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show whole joseph watson is with me here
and it's incredible how much losing the left is enduring right now i mean you gotta give it to
them they really can endure losing and they just take it now you see the response they get rabbit
out there they're getting violent they're trying to stage events like a trump baby balloon protest
that turns out to be a massive failure let's pull up that image again i mean paul this is a it's
actually laughable how pathetic this is they build this up this kid oh it's going to be a huge balloon
everybody you'll see it it'll draw a bunch of attention it ends up being like a like a 10 foot
deal that can't even get above the smallest building it kind of really in a way paul i think
it's a representation of everything that they are a bunch of loudmouth blowhards and when it
comes time to deliver they can't no precisely in the way it's the way this was framed as well
they framed it as being like a satirical thing which was anti-establishment that was the rhetoric
that surrounded all this so it's literally like some trust fund kid who comes from a rich political
family who owns a two million pound townhouse in london who was behind this this project organizing
it they got immediate approval from the establishment they got a week of intensive
establishment media coverage yet they were all over these same media networks you know
he was on cnn bbc sky news or ever saying this was an anti-establishment protest no it's not
you're not marching against the establishment you're in with the establishment you're flying
the eu flag the ultimate symbol of cronyism the ultimate symbol of the establishment okay the
entire rise on detra of the trump administration is taking on the deep state it's to be anti-establishment
so when you're marching against that you put yourself directly in line on the same side as
the establishment and it's just the hypocrisy of it oh and it's like it's in america it's kind of
more violent you have people acting out you have an antefer and stuff here in the uk in london it's
more like some some soppy like middle-class day out they've got their picnic hampers it's got to
the point where it's basically now a fancy dress party to go out every other weekend in london
and protest about whatever grave injustice has just happened next but it's the hypocrisy i made
the point in my video you know we've had several visits from actual dictators to london over the
past three years the protests were absolutely minimal so you can look at it and think so what
are you protesting trump for oh he said grab him by the pussy 13 years ago oh my god what a misogynist
okay so where were you when crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia visited the uk on a
state visit by the way a full state visit they didn't even give trump a state visit because our
government our conservative in name only government is so cowled is so yellow bellied they didn't
even give him a state visit they didn't even arrange for him to stay in london for any period
of time but when this crown prince of saudi arabia came a few months ago on a full state visit
the protests were absolutely minimal okay this is a country where women have to have a male guardian
follow them everywhere they have to have male guardian approval to open a bank account to travel
anywhere to do anything you've got women in saudi arabia there was another famous case of it just
last week i believe being imprisoned and tortured for not wearing a hijab oh but who are you going
to be out on the streets protesting against because he's an evil misogynist crown prince mohammed
bin salman or donald trump because he said grab him by the pussy 13 years ago it's donald trump in
their thousands in their tens of thousand you can look at you know erdoan he came to the uk a few
months ago we've got this narrative about trump being a massive threat to freedom of the press
his anti-media rhetoric it's dangerous it's frightening meanwhile erdoan a guy who literally
jails more journalists than any other country on earth visits the uk this is a man who before he
even left london on his state visit called journalists that he had imprisoned terrorists
while he was up giving a speech with tereza may literally called them terrorists this is a guy
who's eliminated over 100 media outlets in turkey since 2016 by decree he just says shut it down it
gets shut down you saw the footage in dc i believe what was it late last year his goons beating up
protesters in washington dc so again this is a guy an actual dictator an islamist dictator
who openly shuts down media outlets openly imprisons journalists and calls them terrorists
he's a genuine threat to freedom of the press in his country he visits london visits the uk
protests barely any oh but donald trump said something mean about cnn a few times 100 000
people on the streets that's the level of hypocrisy that's what really gets me every time with these
virtue signaling middle class morons well but think about the optics of this let's let's flash
forward let's say 50 years into the future and you're reading a history textbook and it talks
about the trump protests with the baby balloon okay think about what people are going to think
they're gonna this is a group of mentally deranged lunatics i mean that's what these people are it's
like they don't even think like oh yeah it'll be cool it'll be funny we'll have a trump baby balloon
well what the hell does that even mean you're the ones that are behaving like babies
so it's like it's like what i mean what are they even thinking like what is the
what what is the goal behind a baby balloon like what is the message that you're sending
other than i'm a deranged lunatic the goal in their own words was to hurt president trumps
feelings he's not even in london at this point he can't nobody could even see the balloon over
the nearest building so small but literally that but oh and you know he's nazi he's imposing a dictatorship
you know where we had president shijin ping of china visit a few years ago to london again on a
state visit this is a guy who's literally trying to abolish presidential term limits he jails his
political rivals he puts dissenters in prison they're tortured to death people who lived during the
mau era and now saying that this guy could be bringing that kind of level of tyranny back
oh yeah not the chinese dictator that just got more power than mau ever had
yeah yeah and he visits and who's out on the streets now obviously you know i don't expect
people to protest absolutely everybody who visits but just have some intellectual consistency
for god's sake how can they have intellectual consistency when they don't even have intellect
paul exactly it's a tough one isn't it but it's just like the trump balloon it almost ended up
being like a a celebration of trump if you think about i mean all these people came out with a
oh balloon oh yeah i mean you also had green day you remember the green day song american idiot
you know it's like over 10 years old now but they bought it and so they made it go to number one in
the uk charts you read the lyrics of this green day song which i remember from you know 10 years
ago the lyrics can you hear the sound of hysteria one nation controlled by the media this is a song
about how the media whips up hysteria and controls the nation with propaganda the exact same rhetoric
the exact same narrative that trump says that literally every rally he attends so they made
a pro trump song go to number one and thought that they'd owned trump by doing so i mean the
sheer lack of intelligence is is shocking to behold you know and that that's kind of another
story in and of itself paul where you know you've got all these people in the entertainment industry
that would have you believe that their anti-establishment you know write lyrics about being anti-establishment
maybe say something about anti-establishment corruption in government and then trump comes
along he's the epitome of everything that's against the establishment everything that's
against the corporate fake news and they hate him i mean it's like it's like you know what's
going on you've called it out and then trump is everything that it it's not he's everything that
fights the corporate mainstream fake news and i don't understand it like do they really not get it
or do they fall for the fake news or are they owned by someone and how do you explain that
because green day hates trump and and yet they write about the fake news that jostles up all the
hysteria well obviously they know i win that as soon as they even if they don't criticize trump
which is this is what taylor swift got heat for for you know like two years at this point
for not attacking trump even if they just try to stay out of it they know as long as they don't get
on board with with the rhetoric with the narrative their careers will be ruined i mean this is why
we literally had to have secret societies of conservatives in hollywood back a few years ago
before even those were disbanded because they couldn't let slip that they were even conservatives
you know james woods great actor being in numerous massive films in the 70s and 80s he basically can
never work again in hollywood now because he's a conservative so they know that these people are
savage and they will ruin your career if you dare step out of line once oh but they're the
tolerant ones they've got intellectual tolerance again complete double standards but they know
they know how the game works they're not going to risk their precious careers
so they're supreme hypocrites every single time you know and here's a perfect example you bring
up taylor swift let me just explain something uh let's just compare taylor swift and cardi b
cardi b total establishment pawn uh total illuminati puppet okay she has to be anti whatever
to go with the message taylor swift doesn't have to you know why she writes her own music
she writes her own lyrics she produces her own album so they can't shut her down whereas everyone
else in the media is run and operated by someone else so that's what it's all about that's why they
can't beat info wars that's why they can't beat trump that's why they can't beat taylor swift
we're self-made bitch learn it get it and lose to it every time we've taken thousands of years of
known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very
best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing
z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with
known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it
supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been
taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a
detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it
to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as
focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info
warslife.com choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true
selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true
selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body take control
of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium at infowarslife.com you're listening to the alex jones show
you're listening to an infowars.com frontline report if you are receiving this transmission
you are the resistance and now your host owin shroyer savagely destroying the lies of the corporate
media savaging the lies of the democrat party you know what's amazing all of the well let's just say
cowardly republicans that have been afraid to speak up on the hill during these congressional
hearings are now getting fed up and starting to take the gloves off and i've got a bunch of clips
we're going to get to of the peter stroke testimony in this third hour but first you know this is
really not up for debate democrat run cities across the nation are the most impoverished
cities in america democrat run cities in america are the most crime ridden cities in america democrat
run cities in america are the most disgusting foul state when it comes to just optics and health
than any other places in america it's always run by democrats take a look at a recent report when
it comes to what the democrats have done to san francisco tourist turning away from the city by
the bay a major convention pulls out of san francisco saying its members don't feel safe on the streets
good evening i'm elisabeth cook i'm ellen martin locals know it and visitors are shocked by it the
reality of san francisco streets is a far cry from its postcard image now the city just lost out
on a huge moneymaker kpi xy is now causing the city money leaving town and might not be the last
film in very well might now that's right headquarters i'm standing in the middle of the san francisco
streets i've stepped in human feces on five different occasions just walking one block
i also stepped on a dirty needle i actually have to go to the hospital now i'm gonna have to conclude
this broadcast because i got pricked with a dirty needle on the streets of san francisco
san francisco's famed cable cars but these days chances are it's the image of someone begging
or dancing in the circles or just wandering around the streets intoxicated or mentally ill
those are the images that tourists are taking home you can smell it like a third world country but
it's not as bad as these and now it's seriously affecting the city's biggest business tourism
they feel their safety is at risk because they're seeing so many people that are having issues
they see people laying on the streets there's there's a bunch of bombs going on the streets
tourism is a nine billion dollar a year industry in san francisco so officials have been reluctant
to go public with the problems in part because it makes the city look bad and it's bad for business
you know restaurants taxis people spend more money outside a hotel than inside and for that reason
it's something we should all be so so basically the story is all right let's bring it down the
story is this this huge medical conference that used to go to san francisco every year
has pulled out because of the state costing the state 40 million dollars the story is tourism
in san francisco excuse me san francisco is down because it's it's reached just insane levels of
poverty with all the homelessness all all the people in the street the tent cities the i mean
the human feces in the street like what dirty needles just ridden all over the street
and then you you see the images of these these these poor people the homeless people that you
know half of them look mentally ill and deranged and unhealthy and and you know i mean there's
a soft spot in everyone for for these people that are suffering nobody wants that but what happens is
it's tough to explain but it's a mental state where you get so comfortable
doing whatever it is you're doing and getting the welfare that you you can't you can't get
off it you physically and mentally can't hurdle over that welfare now that's your livelihood
and so you're now in this state of consciousness this this state of being where you you can't work
you can't get a job you can't do anything but sit on the streets and beg and and hope the government
gives you a handout and this is all created by the democrats see in america you used to have to bust
your butt to make it into your country to make it in this country so that was seared into your
brain seared into your dna now it's seared into these people's brains just be lazy be a bum live
in a tent city the government will take care of everything so this is all created by the democrats
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better
way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex joneshow and now your
host olyn shroyer not to get stuck on the story that we covered in the last segment but this is
a story from 2016 from forbs politicians deserve some blame for urban decline and it basically
highlights all these inner cities that have been run by democrats for decades that have just seen
absolute destruction in the inner cities an increase in poverty a decrease in the quality of school
and it's just factual data that it's all run by democrats and it's it's not shocking to me that
they use st louis my hometown is one of the greatest examples of this yeah the democrats have run the
city of st louis into the ground and it's just incredible how they continue to get elected
really makes you wonder but of course it's not just st louis it's pittsburgh it's detroit
it's baltimore it's chicago it's all run by democrats and all of those cities under the
reign of the democrats for decades if they were really able to do anything they've been in power
for decades they've done nothing they would be able to steer the ship in the right direction
but it continues to go downhill it continues to get worse under the democrats it's all about
to change ladies and gentlemen it's all about to change all right where to go from here why don't we
hit the reset button so you've had rod rozenstein come out today and hold a press conference because
robert mewler has just indicted 12 new russians claiming that they worked in a russian military
operation to undermine the us election and hack into democrat servers and even tried to hack into
the election systems even though they can't prove it and they they they won't say if they changed
any votes they've said that in fact they didn't but what's interesting about this now they're
claiming to know that it was russians who coordinated with dc leaks and gucifer 2.0
and it was russians that hacked the dnc and the d triple c and the hillary campaign
which is an incredible conclusion to reach considering the aforementioned entities the dnc
the d triple c and the hillary clinton campaign did not turn over their servers
so how is it that rob mewler and rod rozenstein
can tell us that the dnc and the d triple c were hacked by russians when they refused
to turn the servers over wonder if we'll ever get an answer to that question
so of course they release this indictment and have this press conference on the eve
of president trump and president putin's summit first time they've had a one-on-one summit
but you know i think that they're scared to death of putin and they know that president trump
and president putin will be having good faith negotiations and conversations
and you have to understand that the democrats and the corporate media in this country
have become so untrustworthy that they know that president trump will trust president
putin more than them and so he doesn't care if cnn and msnbc and the democrats want to sit here
and cry russian collusion for two straight years without any evidence he's gonna go meet with putin
he's gonna say all right you know what they're saying i know what they're saying what is really
going on here is there anything and my guess is putin will most likely say look i mean yeah we've
got russian hackers and trolls and everything and they do their thing and i don't really know i don't
really care well what about this claim that there is a military operation and putin might say well
you know we do have some stuff or he might say no there has nothing to do with that but president
trump has now been put in a situation by the democrats and by the corporate media to negotiate
in good faith with putin and to be more trustworthy of putin because all they do is lie and they've
been lying about trump since the day he decided to run for president so so that hasn't changed
so now on the eve of trump and putin set to meet the democrats in the deep state
put out this story of 13 russian indictments claim the russian military is is meddling in
our elections hacking all of these servers why are the democrat servers so wide open anyway
and why is it that the information in the documents that they released was so damning
so they cannot win they they they have no means to a victory with this story
let's say that it's true and the russians hacked the dnc and the d triple c okay well tell us how
you found that out because they won't turn over the servers so to quote obama what magic wand do you
have and then okay well what information was released because of the alleged hacking from
the russians what is in these documents that was so damning to hillary clinton in the election
oh she rigged it from bernie oh they think that their voters are dumb efforts oh they were rigging
presidential debates oh they have 60 000 pizza parties oh they have pizza related maps oh they
have hot tub parties with little children in it for your entertainment oh oh oh that's what's
going on oh they have spirit cookings and i'm supposed to be mad that russia exposed how sick
the heads of the democrat party are i'm supposed to be mad that russia has exposed how the democrats
rig elections how the democrats rig the media collude with the media
how they think about their voters how they think about the american people i'm supposed to be mad
that the russians or i guess well you know they say it was a spearfishing attack it for
for the d triple c so i guess that's like the podesta emails but i'm supposed to be mad now
that thanks to these hackers i know that the podesta's and the clintons are into spirit
cookings where they rub excuse me semen and urine and feces on the wall with messages where they cut
themselves spirit cookings satan worshipers and i'm supposed to be mad at the russians
well hate to tell you i'm not in fact i like it i like the fact that democrat adam schiff
is such a low iq individual who cries russian collusion all day long and then as soon as he
gets a phone call from somebody he thinks is a russian agent with dirt on trump what does he do
he jumps the hurdles to get that intel and it turns out he was duped that's all these people
they're all duped they're all tiny iq morons that have somehow gotten into our government
it's time to drain the swamp man there are the freaky faces of peter stroke from the testimony
yesterday which when i come back we're going to start hitting all the video clips from the
peter stroke testimony and highlight that now in this break please go to info war store.com
and take advantage of the july 4th specials that have been extended at info war store.com
part of those specials free shipping store wide free shipping store wide in fact you know what
this is big this story comes from nbc don't drink the water dc warns of contamination risk so
it's a boil water advisory right now so all you see these stories all the time actually this is an
old story but but you see these stories all the time about water being contaminated gas being in
the water lead being in the water we sell water filters we're not here fear mongering like oh they
put poisonous fluoride in the water and the glyphosates in the water no that's real stuff
okay i don't want to drink the poison so i have a water filter i don't want you to drink the poison
so we sell the water filter at infowarstore.com 25% off 25% off plus free shipping on the
elexapure pro water filtration system if you're not filtering your water if you're not filtering
your drinking water in your cooking water you're insane folks get a water filter it is paramount to
your health if you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love the dylan
living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you
money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine to
deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier
tastes better and can even boost energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy
and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's dyln.co get the
ultimate knife at an ultimate price the fox garambat knife finally available in the us the
fox garambat knife opens with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility for defense
and for way less than other knives of this caliber go to the ultimate knife dot com truly the best
knife you will ever own and only available at the ultimate knife dot com use promo code radio
at checkout for free shipping get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at the ultimate knife
dot com tired of being censored by facebook youtube twitter and patreon well now you don't have to
be one way dot com is the free speech and human friendly social network built just for you stop
feeding the beast every post you make on those evil anti-human anti-american perverted sites
helps them destroy our families our country and our souls join one way today and take back your
liberty your free speech alternative is waiting for you at one way dot com one way dot com now
there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory that absorbs 40 times better yes nano curcumin plus
from one planet nutrition contains smaller particle size that allows absorption over 40
times better into your bloodstream nano curcumin plus may also help reduce pain and inflammation
detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes nano curcumin plus is now on sale at
oneplanetnutrition.com use promo code GCN for your special discount at oneplanetnutrition.com
the next generation of nutritional supplementation do you realize that when you spread the links
from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you
that has defeated hillary and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have
now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading
the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news
intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to
share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum
you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are
the renaissance and we are winning we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious
health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire
home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and
maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from
you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this
one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com
and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your
current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration
system today you're listening to the alex jones show
so here's the deal
Robert Mueller and Rob Rosenstein are trying to undermine the trump putin summit after all these
are un-american traitorous treasonous actors here Mueller and Rosenstein that are trying to divert
attention from their own corruption and trying to sabotage what would be good fake negotiate
negotiations between trump and putin really sick sad twisted stuff that these two are up to
you have to wonder why and the story is at info wars dot com nsa specialist contradict
Rosenstein's dnc russian hacking claim this is how brazen they are ladies and gentlemen
this is how brazen Mueller and Rosenstein are they know anybody who knows anything about this
story knows that the dnc and the d triple c refused to turn their servers over to the fbi
therefore they could never investigate as to who indeed hacked and any intel and investigation
that has already been done has all concluded the same thing which is it was an internal job
not an external job and that is all highlighted in the story at info wars dot com right now
so do not be fooled this is a 110 deep state sabotage of trump and putin meeting for the
first time one-on-one 110 percent there is nothing that will come from these indictments zero zero
zero in fact oh my gosh oh my gosh i just realized what's actually gonna happen
oh they they are so screwed oh they're so screwed man here's what's going to happen
the russians are going to show up for court again and demand discovery and Mueller is going to bail
history repeats itself folks oh my god i just can't i mean this is just
just devastating victory after victory and these scumbags don't know what to do
they have no idea what to do just like the son that ran the story about trump and teresa may
oh and then trump says oh you want to run that fake news story guess what i've got the tapes
to prove that you tried to smear me ah what did he say to james comey hope there aren't tapes
president trump has all of you beat you see you thought because you were able to get away with
everything and everything was so corrupt that you were untouchable and you had a hubris well
it was a false hubris you're a low iq nitwit president trump is a stable genius and he's
running laps around you and you're just trying to figure out what the hell's going on you're dizzy
so what do you do you you announce more fake indictments from your fake russia probe
to sabotage trump putin summit it's not going to go well for you so keep digging that hole baby
keep digging your hole let's now begin to go to some of these clips from the peter stroke
testimony yesterday let's start with trey gowdy hitting peter stroke hard and your testimony
is bob moeller did not kick you off because of the content of your text he kicked you off because
of some appearance that he was worried about my testimony what you asked and what i responded to
was that he kicked me off because of my bias i'm stating to you it is not my understanding that he
kicked me off because of any bias that it was done based on the appearance if you want to represent
what you said accurately i'm happy to answer that question but i don't appreciate what was
originally said being changed i don't give a damn what you appreciate agent stroke i don't
appreciate having an fbi agent with an unprecedented level of animus working on two major investigations
during 2016 yeah and guess what the republicans are taking the gloves off now because they're sick
of your crap and the average republican in congress doesn't want to see this country burn to the ground
which is apparently what the average democrat wants so you're getting louis gomer you're getting
tre gowdy you're getting derelisa you're getting bob goodlatt they're all coming out of the woodworks
now because they don't want to see you burn the country to the ground so we need oh but this is
only this is only the beginning this is only the first dominoes beginning to fall these people
are dead they are just like president trump said we caught them red-handed they are in a total panic
mode shoveling dirt out of their hole thinking they're going to dig their way out of it they're
just getting deeper and deeper let's now go to derelisa this was a clever one forcing peter stroke
to read his own text messages you did a number of text all of the texts that have presented to us
as far as i know came from your government phone correct i believe that to be the case so you've
made no text available from your private phone is that correct that's correct did you ever text on
your private phone i did did you ever text lisa page on your private phone i did did you ever text
lisa page on your private phone similar text to the ones you did on your government phone
by similar you mean what commenting on mr trump or clinton or anything else
political i don't specifically recall but it's probably a safe assumption that yes so it's likely
that they really get those tests why don't we subpoena get those tests your personal phone has likely
similar text to the ones that we found on your government phone that's correct i would say it
has similar expressions of personal belief okay so in front of you have a one sheet of paper that
was presented to you a few minutes ago and i'm going to just go to go to a date and then ask
you to read your own words march 4th 2016 you want me to read this yes please yes sir omg he's an
idiot may 4th 2016 now the pressure really starts to finish my july 19 2016 hi how was trump other
than adouge melania july 21st 2016 trump is a disaster i have no idea how destabilizing his
presidency would be august you're the one these days in the country uh i don't believe i wrote
this text sir okay it's been attributed to you so we'll go on to the next august 8th 2016
and i'll preface it by saying this for context uh miss page said not ever going to become president
right right uh no no he's not we'll stop it repeat that again no no he's not we'll stop it august
15 wanted to stop 2016 i want to work the path you threw out for consideration in andy's office
that there's no meeting in andy mccabe's office i'm afraid we can't take that risk it's like an
insurance policy in the unlikely event you die before you're 40 on october 20th 2016 uh i can't
pull away what the and i defer to the chairman whether you can just use one letter if you don't
mind why the f what the f happened to our country lease okay read it again that way sir did you
not was i just want to hear it you just want to leave me to repeat it please okay sir sure i have
been right on my magic carpet i can't pull away what the f happened to our country lease oh lease
oh lease we're in the fbi together we're gonna stop this country why in the world do you believe
that this committee should not ask for the record of similar uh text from your private
account to find out what else you might have said about insurance policies or about the president
united states or investigation that is a rhetorical question you need not answer and i yield back and
we're going to get those best messages peter stroke and let me tell you something else
derelisa is the perfect example of a republican taking the gloves off
just four years ago he shut down the lowest learner hearing because he was a cucked republican
now he's out here standing up for truth and justice we need more people to come out of the
republican party that has some gonads now there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory that absorbs
40 times better yes nano curcumin plus from one planet nutrition contains smaller particle size
that allows absorption over 40 times better into your bloodstream nano curcumin plus may also help
reduce pain and inflammation detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes nano curcumin
plus is now on sale at one planet nutrition dot com use promo code gcn for your special
discount at one planet nutrition dot com the next generation of nutritional supplementation
water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for
you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on herky purified water the burky guy
provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency get to go burky dot com we're call eight seven seven eight eight six three six
five three eight seven seven eight eight six three six five three go burky dot com
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all new version of
the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill and quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
rematte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and
body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has it's also got the
boost at it get the real red pill plus at info war store dot com info wars life and info wars life
dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin
d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting
oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and
d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an
extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin
d3 the research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life
dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d
supports our memory and brain function something the globalist are targeting visit info wars
dot com today or call 888-253-3139 this fourth of july is special everybody can see it they can
feel it the globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening to their tyranny and america
yet again is at the heart of the resistance the globalist that's why this fourth of july i'm asking
all of our great supporters to think about info wars now more than ever and what would the world
be like if info wars wasn't there resisting the globalist what would have happened if you hadn't
supported info wars we would not be having the victories we have today so yes a lot of good
things are happening but the enemy is striking back so please think about info wars and funding
our operation while you get great products at the same time on the fourth of july that's so
historic we have record sales going on right now free shipping on hundreds of different items
more than 20 items are 50 off like brain force plus x2 is 40 off knockout sleep aid 1776
silver bullets 995 little silver and free shipping you can't beat that this fourth of july special
and our sales are special to match it info wars store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
so
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host oan treuer well you thought you could stop president trump from getting elected
you had all your operatives in the media activated you had all your operatives inside
the republican and the democrat party engaged you had your street minions out there trying to
intimidate and bully people you had your deep state agents trying to run operations to stop him
spying on president trump and guess what you're still lost you cheated in about five or six
different ways and you still lost you need to get the message god is in control and if you want to
try to keep fighting god's plan you're going to end up a part of it and that's already what's going
on now let's go back to these highlights from peter strokes testimony on the hill yesterday
let's go to clip nine this is bob goodlatt again another example of a republican who you would
never hear talk like this before they're sick and tired of it they're taking the gloves off
they're getting engaged as patriots for truth and justice let's go to bob goodlatt questioning peter
stroke i separated out my personal beliefs from any action i took officially as an fbi agent every
day do you do you recognize how your vitriol against president trump makes it appear you
could never approach the case in a fair-minded manner sir of course i appreciate that i understand
let's just write it let's be clear let's be clear they said in the text that we've received we
haven't even seen most of them that they would do anything to stop him we will stop him and and
he's trying to tell us to believe that he's going to be neutral dude we are not stupid let's go back
see on august 26 2016 you texted miss page quote just went to a southern virginia walmart
i could smell the trump support and smell is in capital letters all capital letters what does
trump support smell like mr struck sir that's a expression of speech i clearly wasn't smelling
one thing or the other what i was commenting on is living in northern virginia what does that mean
what i what i meant by that was living in northern virginia having traveled 100 and 150
miles south within the same state i was struck by the extraordinary difference in the expression
of political opinion and belief amongst the community there and you describe that as smell
in capital letters sir that was a choice of the quick choice of words and it's all right so earlier
seen or heard okay so earlier you had texted miss page on that another part of virginia
loudon county which is i think in northern virginia is quote still ignorant hillbillies
end quote is that what you meant no sir not at all that you consider trump supporters to be ignorant
hillbillies not at all so what did you mean by that well sir the first thing i tell you is a
is a proud fairfax county resident there's a healthy sort of competition between fairfax and
loudon second thing i would tell you is that in no way did i or do i believe any resident of
loudon county or southern virginia or anywhere else in the nation is are any of those things
that was a don't you know i was flirting with you understand the implications of this text with my
constituents in virginia over the phone that's my boo i do sir and i would ask you to tell them
that that was a in some cases certainly unfortunate use of words that in no way do i believe that
those things are you're a total jackass working at the fbi that's what it proves if not if it
doesn't prove your bias which i mean you know okay you want to deny your bias wow whoo yeah i i
don't need air to breathe either but that's fine deny your bias even though it's obvious so okay so
you're not biased so you're just a jackass at the highest levels of the fbi so that's just as revealing
as whatever bias you may or may not have had that you're trying to deny
ooh i'm just flirting with my boo lease i don't mean anything about trump supporters smelling bad
i don't mean anything about stopping president trump i don't mean anything when i call him an
fngd bag no i'm just flirting with my boo lease come on now it's my boo
boo you know what let's actually let's actually go to clip 18 where louis gomert again another
republican puffing up the chest now standing up for america getting some wind behind their wings
listen to how uh gomert approaches lease and the boo
many times did you look so innocent into your wife's eye and lied to her about
oh mr. chairman it's not a rager your inability of a witness came on Mr. Cashew
no no no stop it stop it i can't handle it i want you to restart it i want you to restart it so
this is what's happening here louis gomert calls out peter stroke for cheating on his wife with his
boo lease also an fbi agent on the muller team now the democrat party that claims to be the party
for women claims to be the party that stands up for women claims to be the party that wants to
stop the mental and physical abuse of women and now here they are standing up for peter stroke
who cheats on his wife here they are trying to stop louis gomert from calling out this man
that is mentally abusing his wife by cheating on her again listen to the democrats who claim to
be the party of standing up for women listen to them shout down gomert as he calls out peter stroke
for cheating on his wife how many times did you look so innocent into your wife's eye and lied to her
about this mr. chairman it's not a rager your ability of a witness came on mr. Cashew
you
no rolling one more time this is too good this is i mean this is classic this is rolling one more
time i'm this is too good let me hear it again how many times did you look so innocent into your
wife's eye and lied to her about mr. chairman it's not a rager your ability of a witness came on
mr. Cashew mr. chairman please don't you know what that you need your medication the gentleman oh my
gosh who is that who you need your medication mr. chairman all the humanity oh this is outrageous
it's just oh oh my god
who are we having fun or what let's go to trey gowdy again blasting peter stroke
i did not know what existed i had prejudged nothing that was all to be determined and that
is a logical way for investigators attorneys and starting with the political death penalty
and impeachment is not the logical way a neutral dispassionate you know point of order chairman
we're to be in an equal time for every member of this here come the democrats to my rescue
how do you expect this committee to control itself you've been out of control since you've
been on this committee why don't you leave it alone this is not been what is this dingbat
somebody find me the name of that dingbat i need to make sure that she's in the hashtag
midterm madness poll that we're running at info wars dot com right now on on the alex
jones twitter in fact let's go ahead and give that a plug we are currently running a poll
it's hashtag midterm madness it's a pool of 64 members of congress and we're going to boil it
down to find out who is the worst round one is complete maxine waters wins by a landslide right
now round two truck tumors winning by a landslide who is that nut bonnie colman oh she's on the list
you can't sneak by me i see everything where is your medication this is outrageous all the humanity
oh my gosh what's going on here i'm getting some weird conflicting message on the screen
all right you know what it's all outrageous give me a little dot cam right here can we
peter stroke here's the story folks the deep state is in absolute panic the democrat party
is in absolute panic donald trump and his constituency is having ultimate victory
and the craziness of the left is showing itself info wars life is launching its newest product
we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best
concentrated fibers uh from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the
very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our
50 billion live active culture for a life as well as my cozy x the targets the yeast the mold and the
fungus is in the gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber
product and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really
big savings and get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these
products to you bodies sold out in a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can
come up with it's sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out
and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today info wars life dot com nourish
a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good
bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is
soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food
absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars life's cutting edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic
fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly
digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head
to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139 years ago info wars life created the powerful
myco zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped
into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support
your gut health myco zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula
designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better
product to help your body fight back myco zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the
body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if
it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract
pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of
time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved myco zx plus
today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com do you realize that when you spread the
links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you
that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you the info warriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying
for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship
it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos
articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info
wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward
slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
that's right
leave this playing in the background while i read these headlines
and cnn i actually wanted the cnn story i forget what was the cnn headline
well regardless cnn runs multiple stories they're trying to lobby to shut down info wars they
cannot get us kicked off youtube they cannot get enough strikes against us to have us shut down
cnn trying to shut down info wars yahoo fighting fake news with the law who do you think they're
talking about they can't beat us they try to call us fake news and demonize us we keep having victories
and getting bigger afp the online battle for truth who is the number one online news organization
if it's not info wars oh it is info wars unless you're talking drudge report the online battle
for truth that's right they keep losing info wars keeps winning see net facebook's info wars problem
just won't go away that's right because we are the champions and we're going to keep fighting
till the end and so is our audience because they're champions too from vanity fair how facebook's
info wars crisis exposes mark zuckerberg's hypocrisy that's right zuckerberg won't shut
info wars down why not because we are the champions and then from the guardian hillary clinton
attacks trump for all out war on truth facts and reason that's because donald trump and the white
house listens to info wars that's because donald trump came on info wars and that's because info
wars defeated hillary clinton so jack up the queen jack up we are the champions because we are the
champions the red wave is coming the deep state has been exposed american patriots are alive and
activated and you're going down rod rozenstein's you're going down robert mehler so try to pull
all your dirty tricks but president trump has outsmarted you and has all the aces up his sleeve
so go ahead and keep digging that hole you could have walked away you could have sailed off into
the sunset but you just had to try to stab america in the back one last time and bleed us out didn't
you and president trump comes in and solders our wounds and and stitches us up together
and has us walking again and you want to come and try to kneecap us but we're too strong now
and there's nothing you can do as a viral photo is now hitting the web president trump sits in
winston churchill's chair oh boy let the trolling begin let the viral sensation begin let the power
of the force field donald trump to defeat the deep state ah they continue to show themselves don't they
what a glorious time to be alive
well i'll tell you what let's let's finish up here with some of these video clips
let's go to classic donald trump here calling out the sun story as fake news and threatening them
with the tapes to prove it i didn't criticize the prime minister i have a lot of respect for the
prime minister and unfortunately there was a story that was done which was you know generally fine but
it didn't put in what i said about the prime minister and i said tremendous things and fortunately we
tend to record stories now so we have it for your enjoyment if you'd like it but we record when we
deal with reporters it's called fake news and we solve a lot of problems with the good old recording
instrument trump has trumped him again just like he trumped comey he records everything oh it's so
glorious now let's go to classic trump again this one i might have to play over and over again just
shutting down jimacosta and cnn president cnn can i ask you a question uh john roberts go
ahead jim no no john roberts go ahead cnn's fake news i don't take questions from cnn cnn is fake
news i don't take questions from cnn john roberts of fox let's go to a real let's go to a real
network john let's go well we're a real network too sir thank you mr roberts does uh jimacosta
where depends because he is quite a baby i mean seriously you know what has anyone has anyone
put together a compilation of all the jimacosta moments i mean i'm sitting here trying to reflect
on all the different jimacosta moments i mean there's dozens of them i think trump has called
jimacosta fake news six times jimacosta has stood at the back of a loud crowd and pretended to
ask trump a question and then turns out like see he's ignoring me another one he gets trolled by
laura loomer i mean seriously if anybody hasn't put a compilation together of all of the classic
jimacosta moments that that needs to get done because this guy what a loser i mean i give him
credit at least he i mean he commits to his job he's basically the punching bag for cnn
he's now the face of fake news jimacosta is now the punching bag and the face for fake news at cnn
and i hope president trump just gets worse with jimacosta i hope president trump continues to
lambast jimacosta it's so entertaining it's so glorious oh and it's just so refreshing to
have a president call it like it is the corporate fake news media cnn oh we are not the enemy of
the american people we love the american people by the way the american people are racist bigots
misogynists and and terrorists and hate mongers we love the american people this is cnn
fake news jimacosta just just classic stuff oh you know what maybe we will just roll
this compilation on the on the other side in the short segment a compilation of all the fake
news cnn so it's not i don't think it's a jimacosta compilation it's just all the cnn fake news
compilation really incredible so joel gilbert is going to take over after the first five minutes
in the next segment i will pass the baton to joel gilbert and he will host the fourth hour here
here but let's just refresh in case we have any new audience members here
you have the trump protest in london totally fail you have president trump stand up to nato
and win you have president trump stand up to the uk and win you have president trump stand up
against the fake news and win you have rod rozenstein though because of all the winning
with robert muhler have a publicity stunt press conference today claiming new indictments on russians
saying they attempted to hack the us election and indeed hacked the dnc and the d triple c
even though the dnc and the d triple c never turned over their servers to be investigated so how did
that reach that conclusion just wait till the russians show up in court and demand discovery
and robert muhler walks away again just like the first time but it doesn't matter the whole reason
for these indictments to be brought up today is to sabotage the trump putin summit that's all this is
they don't want good faith negotiations between trump and putin they don't even want trump and
putin to be able to sit down cordially and have a conversation so they're doing everything they can
to try and throw a wedge in between trump and putin and force trump to go to russia and scold
them for whatever they did in the election it's not going to happen not going to happen
and again though they don't care it's all about propaganda and putting it out there
for their minions to eat their minions are starving their minions are starving for anything they
have nothing they have nothing they can't stop the supreme court nomination they can't stop america
from having a border they can't abolish ice they can't get their illegals to vote they keep losing
and losing and losing and so robert muhler like a cult leader throws the dogs a bone the rabid dogs
throws them a bone and says here's some russian indictments and they're gonna get all
frothy at the mouth oh i can just hear rachel madow oh boy she is gonna have a cnn and msnbc
are gonna have a heyday over these indictments just like they did the first time and then guaranteed
just like the first time the russians will have representation in court demand discovery and
robert muhler will balk because it's not a real indictment it's not a real investigation it's
fake it's a witch hunt it's a publicity stunt they are trying to destroy the fabric of this nation
they're trying to sabotage president trump it will not be done we the people control the nation
not you robert muhler not you robert rozenstein
we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue
info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and maintain
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your
family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for clean and
refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your first
water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today you know if i tried
to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life it take hours
michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics
it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been
sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your
body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it
and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it
it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering that it's
not just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential
to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right we have the compilation of cnn being totally fake news let's go and enjoy
the absolute madness and nonsense that is fake news cnn i want to see an honest press
when i started off today by saying that it's so important to the public to get an honest press
the press the public doesn't believe you people anymore
it says you're attacking us can you give us a question go ahead no this is a person-elect go
ahead go ahead since you are attacking our organization not you give us a chance to
your organization's terrible you are attacking our news organization your organization's terrible
let's go ask a question sir go ahead sir quiet quiet this president like go ahead she's asking
a question don't be rude can you give us a question don't be rude no i'm not going to give you a
question you are fake news the public gets it you know look when i go to rallies they turn
around they start screaming at cnn they want to throw their placards at cnn you know the american
closest allies were frustrated with you and angry with you and that you were angry with them and
that you were leaving here early to go meet for more friendlier talks with kim jong-un in
singapore and i'm wondering if well if you if you view it the same way and do you view the u.s
alliance system shifting under your presidency away who are you with i'm curious cnn i figured
fake news cnn the worst but you know i could tell by the quite i have no idea you were cnn after
the question i was just curious as to who you're with you with cnn can i just ask you thank you
very much mr president um where are you from bbc here's another beauty it's a good line impartial
free and fair yeah sure uh mr president just like cnn just because of the attack of fake news and
and attacking our network i just want to ask you sir i'm changing it from fake news though
doesn't that under very fake news i know but aren't you go ahead now look this is america
and you can believe whatever you want to believe 18 percent of the public says they've seen or
been in the presence of a ghost i mean whatever i want you all to know that we are fighting the
fake news it's fake phony fake a few days ago i called the fake news the enemy of the people
and they are they are the enemy of the people mr president will you stop calling us the enemy
of the people sir they're very dishonest people in fact in covering my comments the dishonest media
did not explain that i called the fake news the enemy of the people the fake news they dropped off
the word fake and all of a sudden the story became the media is the enemy they take the word fake
out and now i'm saying oh no this is no good but that's the way they are i'm having a good time
tomorrow they will say donald trump rants and raves at the press i'm not ranting and raving
i'm just telling you you know you're dishonest people but but i'm not ranting and raving i
love this i'm having a good time doing it but tomorrow the headlines are going to be donald
trump rancid and i'm not ranting and raving fake news is the worst thing that you can call
a journalist i it's like an ethnic disparagement you know we all have these ugly words for people
that's the one for journalists we asked you some more questions
we are in a rick system and a big part of the rigging are these dishonest people in the media
big part of the tone just this guy if you look the hatred i mean sometimes sometimes somebody
gets well you look at your show that goes on at ten o'clock in the evening you just take a look at
that show that is a constant hit the panel is almost it's president trump it's the greatest
president in modern history his attacks on the fake media are so glorious so justified and we
just love president trump for it that compilation is going to be up on the alex jones channel share
it far and wide cnn is very fake news living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain
water and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal
particles and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we
employed a series of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there
was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rain water next we tested the water
from our alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure
but the ph was also restored to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises
the ph of the water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain
water supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show this is the fourth hour i'm joel gilbert coming to you
right from the left coast in los angeles uh you know me as a frequent guest of alex also
filmmaker of recent films in the alex jones store trump the art of the insult there's no
place like utopia and of course the classic now dreams for my real father we will be taking
calls later it's eight seven seven seven eight nine two five three nine one eight seven seven
seven eight nine alex now we have a lot to be thankful for here we are in the middle of july
fourth of july was last week uh check out this photo of me this is here in malibu california
from the filming of there's no place like utopia from the mountains to the prairies to the oceans
god bless america it's been a glorious fourth of july it would not have been a happy day if
hillary were president we would have had ruled by executive order uh bad economy over taxation
over regulation no jobs obama care open borders inner city crime attacks on police race division
corruption of the legal system imagined that hillary was president and we have two radical
leftist judges on the supreme court we could have just kissed our constitution goodbye
goodbye if hillary was president uh of course hillary would pursue obama's pro russia policies
pro iran ttp the united states would have been finished uh we almost witnessed very close in
this last election what ronald reagan was talking about let's play that video of ronald reagan very
seminal moment play the reagan they remind us that they remind us that freedom is never more than
one generation away from extinction you and i must protect and preserve freedom here or it will
not be passed on to our children and it will disappear everywhere in the world so we almost
descended into permanent liberal fascism under hillary clinton chuck schumer maxine waters
pelosi there never would have been another free election uh i want to give you my take on the
peter struck hearings some things uh were talked about that i think people kind of missed very
important let's play the first video the struck bias video kimony is bob moeller did not kick you
off because of the content of your text he kicked you all because of some appearance that he was
worried about my testimony what you asked and what i responded to was that he kicked me off
because of my bias i'm stating to you it is not my understanding that he kicked me off because of
any bias that it was done based on the appearance now this was actually true this was the one thing
that peter struck said where he wasn't lying and i think everyone missed it there are 13 democrats
on the moeller special counsel probe and they're all completely biased the only problem that moeller
had was struck is because he was stupid enough to text his bias and it gave the appearance of bias
it was a public display of bias that was the only problem that moeller had with peter struck and
that is a very important distinction that i think people people missed uh let's play the next video
on the uh the tennessee congressman very embarrassing because i'm from tennessee
talking about peter struck deserving a purple heart let's play that one purple heart for peter
struck if i could give you a purple heart i would you deserve one this has been an attack on you
in a way to attack mr moeller and the investigation that is to get at russia collusion involved in
our election so we saw about eight years of obama and what was really stealth radical socialism
don't forget obama ran as a mainstream candidate he said i'm going to cut the deficit in half
marriage is between man and a woman and god i'll obey the constitution of course then he went and
pursued a radical agenda that no one voted for and tried to kind of keep quiet about it now the
democrats are back into open revolution uh they tried to keep it quiet for some years but they're
just calling for the most radical policies and so today the democrat party is a radical socialist
party in the open and i believe that's why despite most people very pleased with trump's economy and
things that are getting done i think america remains in grave danger because there will be elections
one day that the republicans will lose they could mess up the economy there could be corruption
don't forget voter fraud by democrats and the next time hillary or cori booker one of these
guys gets into power they're not going to leave it up to bumbling idiots like peter struck or phony
dossiers uh they will no doubt take care of the next election uh and not allow a free election
now i wrote an article an american thinker a week ago last friday that went totally viral it came out
on friday and michael goodwin from the new york post pretty much copied it on sunday and the drudge
report picked it up let's show that drudge headline uh drudge had it for a full day last sunday
that hillary is running again in 2020 now michael goodwin didn't give me credit but that's typical
but the main point is that i wanted to share a view that was able to to get out there and it was
picked up by many other news outlets uh fox and many others and it was really been continuing all
week and i make the case that hillary is running for president again in 2020 and i'm going to walk
you through this and tell you why this is happening later on we're going to bring on daniel greenfield
from front page magazine going to talk about some of his incredible articles but i'm going to walk you
through this scenario uh first thing i'm going to point out is you have to really understand hillary
clinton and how the clinton's never quit how they think and why they never quit her life
mantra which he's repeated and written about for years is this lesson she says her mother taught her
about what defines you in life is not getting knocked down it's about how you get back up
so let's play this hillary mom story she tells it over and over let's play the video
you know i was pretty shy i was a kind of reserved little girl and i would yes i would go outside to
play and literally i would get knocked down and pushed around by all the little kids i ran back
in crying and my mother met me at the door and she said you go right back out there and stand up for
yourself so this is the story hillary tells and for her the defeat by trump was the ultimate calling
that she has to fulfill this destiny and show that she can get back up the clinton's never quit
doesn't matter the adversity whitewater ken star impeachment china gate bingazi email server scandal
you could fill up pages and you also have to ask yourself how come the clinton's have a wrap sheet
that would make al capone blush and they they never go to jail it's because they never give up the
minute the clinton's quit politics is the minute they risk prosecution they know the only way to
stay out of jail is to frighten the jailers remember lisa page wrote peter struck be careful when
you interview hillary she's going to be president this is how they all feel uh so the idea that she's
has the potential to be in power frightens anybody who has any crime on the clinton's now of course
other than running for president she has nothing else to do she's not taking yoga classes anymore
and chelsea's wedding is over so look at her history she's been running for president since 1992
and since she lost in 2016 only by a few votes in a few states uh she really has ramped up the
campaign from ireland to australia to india the campaign continues and the message remains the same
donald trump is racist and sexist and his supporters are absolutely deplorable let's play the video of
her in india from a few weeks ago hillary in india map of the united states there's all that red in
the middle where trump won i won the places that represent two-thirds of america's gross domestic
product i won the places that are optimistic diverse dynamic moving forward and his whole
campaign make america great again was looking backwards you know you didn't like black people
getting rights you don't like women you know getting jobs you don't want to you know see that
indian americans succeeding more than you are whatever your problem is i'm going to solve it
so this is what hillary is up to she's preaching continually she won the 2016
election by three million votes except for that damn constitution thing and russia russia russia
she was robbed of a rightful place in history and today's indictments against mysterious russians
just feeds into that so uh we'll be right back we're going to talk more about hillary 2020
and daniel greenfield coming up at the bottom of the hour healthcare reform is confusing but
whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed
prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own healthcare
costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an
association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each
other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org
that's liberty on call dot org hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature
expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique sling shots and sling bows on the
market at sling bow dot com sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798 they're
perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the
excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on
this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com want revenge on the common
housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a
miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries
required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 39 95 and free economy shipping use
discount code GCN and get an extra 10 percent off your purchase at bug assault dot com fire your
fly swatter get your bug assault today tired of being censored by facebook youtube twitter and
patreon well now you don't have to be one way dot com is the free speech and human friendly
social network built just for you stop feeding the beast every post you make on those evil
anti-human anti-american perverted sites helps them destroy our families our country and our souls
join one way today and take back your liberty your free speech alternative is waiting for you at
oneway dot com oneway dot com feeling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info
wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance
and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you
receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with
20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help
you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip
top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora
life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel
your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today alex jones here
with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info
war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set out with top
formulators in the us to create the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina libido
workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and from
seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give
yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win
no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and
it's made in the us day get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try
alpha power today
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show joel gilbert from los angeles right from the left coast
continuing to talk about hillary 2020 my article on american thinker that went viral all week picked
up by new york post uh fox news everybody's talking about it i'm gonna talk now about her path to
the nomination uh daniel greenfield front page magazine coming up bottom of the hour uh every
candidate has to demonstrate a path to the nomination how can they get there hillary is
actually the only candidate on the democrat side with a plausible path to the nomination uh and
here's how it goes in the primaries hillary just with her name recognition and her loyal voters
which she has a lot of them can get an easy 25 percent of the vote while the anti-hillary vote
will be split amongst about 10 other candidates at about five or 10 each now this is the same
formula that trump accomplished on the republican side uh in 2016 he had a solid base of supporters
and in each primary he would he wouldn't win it because he had the solid base every time someone
else dropped out he'd pick up about half their supporters and the rest would be split amongst
the rest so this is a realistic path for hillary that's number one secondly she's the only candidate
with big money raising potential she's had a mechanism for raising money for 30 years and
don't forget she has a billion dollars stashed away in the clinton foundation for just such a rainy
day you didn't really think that all that russian oligarch money uh uranium one money went to uh
hungry children in Haiti you know did you uh the next thing is the media they're gonna celebrate
hillary they're gonna give her 10 billion of free media earned advertising and they'll say that she
doesn't back down she was robbed by the russians uh she has unfinished business she's gonna break the
glass ceiling uh you know round two between hillary and trump she's doing it for women
and the msm journalists they want jobs in a in a clinton administration so look for the media to
support this effort as well also the electoral college heavily favors democrat she knows that
and deep state leftists are probably going to help her from inside the government leaking
things about trump don't forget that uh tom arnold has been bragging the actor has been bragging
about having some stupid thing that trump might have said years ago on a tape somewhere and left
this are registering voters every day in these swing states uh age is not a factor for hillary
because she's about the same age as trump and uh she knows she has to run it forces her to run
this time because when she's 77 in 2024 she'll definitely be rejected probably for a younger
ethnic candidate uh someone like jill biden said about obama who's articulate and clean
and probably even more radical uh so while hillary knows it will be an uphill battle to face
trump she sees that she has to position herself and that she has a chance don't forget she has
the same opportunity with the dnc the dnc is broke because they spent 12 million dollars paying off
russians to write fictional short stories for 300 000 per page the most money ever paid for a
fictional 35 page short story so she can offer the dnc again we'll fund you if i can call the
shots on the debates the primaries everything her pal tom pares she placed him at the head of the dnc
so everything is set up for hillary to make this comeback and you're also going to see that any
potentially good democrat candidates are going to say wait a minute trump is a little too tough to
beat hillary's going to be tough she's got the money i think i'll wait till 2024 so that leaves
hillary with a bunch of publicity hounds and a clear path to the nomination i'm sure the rest
of the democrats would like to also use that to clear out the old guard hillary pocahontas
crazy bernie biden and be able to start this new radical party based on younger people
like the girl in new york um now how else could uh could hillary defeat trump let's play my video
called early vote this is the democrat party voter fraud formula let's take a look at early vote how
they do it do you know if the illegal immigrants vote yes they do vote they do yes how's that possible
well it's very easy you go to these supermarkets and you see these people that are registering people
to vote and they can't even speak english and they sign them up to register to vote they get mail
in ballots and then they just mail them back off there's no way of tracking them here in illinois
we've got early vote and in a lot of the states in ohio florida batta in colorado you do it on your
own time and it's really convenient we're recruiting and training latino organizers we're holding
latino voter registration drives across america we will transform this nation so that was an excerpt
from there's no place like utopia from my film where you can just see how the democrats operate
early vote vote by mail uh you know voting uh online is what they're pushing for no voter i d
of course obama got elected to state senate originally in chicago because every cemetery
voted they have all three and a half million people in america are on the voting registration
even though uh they're dead uh so the potential for voter fraud is the biggest thing that they
believe in including uh george soros and his gang operating the voting machines so there's a lot of
ways that hillary sees a path to to victory uh so that's why i say get ready for hillary 2020
because she will try everything to win the white house don't forget in 2016 she did not concede
even though she lost she wouldn't concede because they were holding back certain numbers of votes
in certain swing states to see if it would bridge the gap only when she realized it was
too much they she went ahead and conceded so all hillary needs is about 300 of the vote
in five counties in three swing states 300 of the vote and by the time the republicans or
anybody figures out wait a minute how can you get three times the number of human beings located in
that county uh the new democrat attorney general keith ellison will call everybody racist and put
us on a uh you know a hate speech watch list so i say get ready for hillary 2020 uh she believes
she's on the right side of history she believes she represents our values don't forget she like
her radical mentor sololensky she believes that the ends justifies the means uh and patriots will
have to rally once again to save america from a final defeat at the hands of a now openly radical
democrat socialist party led by hillary clinton and if she wins they're not going to fool around
as i said with uh text messages and dossiers uh they'll see to it that there is never another
free election 2012 was not a free election obama used the irs to suppress the conservatives
break up the tea party movement 2016 doj irs tried to stop trump and if he does get elected to be
able to impeach him and they're still working at it today so the radical left are are anti-american
anti-democrat and hillary clinton will likely be their leader we'll be right back with daniel
greenfield in the next segment
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping
your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system
has become a challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty healthshare liberty
healthshare is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded
people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now
by going to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org it's a no-brainer a big burky water filter is
the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals
bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does
it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water
filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems
using code gcm call or click 1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99
b-e-r-k-e-y do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread
the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been
on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now
because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info
wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get
between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more
than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people about the local
stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of
the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill and quickly become one of our fellow info warriors favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at info wars store dot com living in volcano may sound more
dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on
the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash
may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels
to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned
was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater next
we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels
within safe measure but the ph was also restored to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on
the alexa pure raises the ph of the water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain
can contaminate a rainwater supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will
purify it you're listening to the alex jones show we now take you live to the central texas
command center and the heart of the resistance welcome back to the alex jones show i'm joel
gilbert filmmaker right here in southern california coming to you live i want to welcome now from
front page magazine front page mag dot com one of the most brilliant writers of our time you've got
to read all this fantastic articles brilliant analysis you should be checking it every day
let's welcome daniel greenfield to the alex jones show hi daniel hi joel thank you so much for
having me on okay great to have you well your articles have been read and tweeted all over the
place for years let's take some of the more recent ones and kind of get your take starting with one
of these recent ones you called it i love the title the maxine waters marxist minstrel show
and you called her the uh the political blackface of the white left now she said that uh civility
is racist uh tell us daniel why is civility racist or why is it not racist and what is she doing as
this marxist minstrel out there well anything that the left doesn't like is racist we already all know
that and so the left which is largely white finds it very useful to take these black radicals and
use them as the front for their violence for their attacks if you actually look at the history of
race riots in this country it goes back to communist agitators very deliberately going into black
communities finding some people starting riots and then claiming that there's a revolution going on
so absolutely nothing has changed since then black lives matter just the latest incarnation of the
same exact program and it's very useful to take people like maxine waters who does not live anywhere
near where constituents do who is making a lot of money even though she has absolutely nothing in
the way of a real election challenge and then send her out there call for violence call for
harassment of people who disagree with her and then when she's called out on that right away
they claim well people just can't handle a strong black woman but if you actually look at the rally
in los angeles where she issued this call for harassing trump administration cabinet members
everybody around her is white because that's the real truth about the left it's political blackface
you've got a whole bunch of white lefties where the ones who actually go out and kill people who
attack people and then they've got a few of these token black people who are there as radicals
where they provide cover because they're the oppressed you know maxine waters was a millionaire
is very oppressed well it seems like the ultimate evil that white communists would manipulate
uh black people you got to ask why would these black people participate in this you've probably
seen my movie in alex jones store dreams from my real father and i show that obama's real father
was the black bolshevik named frank marshall davis out of chicago and his job was to as a journalist
was to try to recruit black people into the communist movement at that time black people
were no fools they were religious people they they believed in love thy neighbor they didn't
like the marxist idea of the war between classes uh they uh believed in peace and love uh davis
was sent to hawaii by the soviet union he was a russian agent i maintained in my film that he was
barack obama's not only his mentor that obama admits raised him and i believe radicalized him
that was his real father but then obama goes back to chicago 1982 follows in frank marshall davis's
footsteps the white communists recruit him to penetrate the black church groups through that
developing communities project to try to get them into the socialist groups why are these black
people that seem intelligent like obama cooperating with the communist white agenda to manipulate
other blacks well you mentioned obama he's a perfect example he's completely inauthentic
he had nothing to do with the black community even aside from the whole racial issue this
was a guy who had been raised in privilege and even in his various memoirs which as you've
documented are very dubious and very shaky he talks about having to somehow penetrate the
black community get some sort of sense of a black identity because it was not natural to him um
father flagers talked about how obama had to go to these churches to try and pass himself off as
christian because he really was not part of it he was not part of that world he was not authentically
black and when you look at these black radical leaders i mean on the extreme end you have shon
king and black lives matter was basically white as far as anybody can tell and actually the original
founder of the nation of islam is also believed to have been a white man if you look at actually
the old nacp leaders some of these people are basically indistinguishable from light but even
today the black leaders that they tried out for the camera because it's hard on now everybody's
on television you can't just take a white guy and say he's black even if you look at them now a lot
of these people are very much outside the black community and even the people who came out of
the black community they're quickly detached from it like maxine waters who was very far from the
black community shows in a very nice mansion when you look at these leaders of the black urban areas
they don't live in the districts that they represent well you've been part of the david
horowitz freedom center for some time and i know that david horowitz has many initiatives
where he's trying to expose the lie of the left and how they're using the black community
what kind of progress do you think he's made especially since the trump has been in office
and he's he started out by saying well what do you got to lose these communities where
where inner cities urban america has been controlled by democrats 50 60 years violence poor education
drug culture no fathers in the home what progress do you think trump is making and your organization
is making to to get this message out one of the big ideas that david horowitz set out was that we
actually have to engage with the black community and a lot of mainstream republicans were very
happy to just ignore them and to just let them divide them as a democrat voting block and his
idea was you have to actually go into these inner cities you actually have to expose the crime the
corruption and you actually have to offer solutions so one of his solutions was school vouchers because
the democrat infrastructure is built in no small part on these municipal unions the teachers are
one of the biggest of the unions teachers and nurses unions are a huge chunk of the democrat
infrastructure they fund the money they push the money right back they take money out of the schools
and they put into the democrat party and he said you need vouchers and this is something that's
been part of the trump administration program you need school vouchers and then actually you
set three black communities they're not dependent on these broken schools that teach their kids nothing
but how to be leftists instead they're actually empowered to control their education they're
empowered to send their kids to christian schools the church the schools will actually teach them
values instead of destroying their value systems okay very good all right let's go on to the next
article you wrote it's called never trumpers are jumping the shark uh george will bill crystal
john casich the bush family uh even sometimes the new media darling ben Shapiro all never trumpers
what is a never trump and what is their logic in their head as supposedly lifelong republicans
that they're still rejecting this president and his agenda so there are never trumpers who
genuinely oppose trump and you know in any election there are people who have different views and are
these people whose entire agenda was to undermine the republican party to undermine the conservative
movement and they did that by pretending to be within conservative movement they did it by pretending
to be republicans by saying um we just opposed this on principle and now when these people are
coming out like max boot like george will and they're coming out and saying we want the democrats
to win that means there were never republicans to begin with there were democrats who were operating
from within and now they're actually exposing themselves which is a huge game changer because
a lot of these people really defected once trump began to win and trump has exposed them
he's forced them to come out and say we want the democrats to win and this actually removes
a lot of the fake um conservative activists who have actually been slowing down and crippling
the movement well how shocked were you or were you not shocked that john mccain who campaigned
for years against obama care was the deciding vote in keeping obama care was that surprising to you
oh i mean i was completely shocked the guy who went out to the border and shot his commercial
bill the danged wall turned out also to be for illegal immigration he turned out to completely
disagree with all the things he kept saying every six years that he ran for office this was an
absolute the open secret this is something that is infuriated conservatives over the years but we
had this idea that mccain was untouchable he's a war hero we can't anything critical about him and
then trump came in and said something critical about him and got away with it which was a huge
game changer and now all that's left is this kind of wake from mccain's career and this pretends
that he was some sort of hero the reality is that mccain was a complete disaster he betrayed
family members he betrayed the voters over and over again he lied to them and now he's going
out lying to them well so you're you're saying that essentially uh trump has exposed the democrats
the rhinos within the democrat part within the republican party and essentially they're all
being filtered out including uh bob corker and others that were just so liberal uh who just
happened to run as as republicans that were probably preventing the republican agenda from
proceeding all those years we're going to be right back with another segment with the great
daniel greenfield from front page magazine we're going to talk about his next article sex lies in
the deep state and we'll take a few calls as well as talk about the democrat fourth of july
statement we'll be right back the alex dome show feeling your body is hard work that's why we've
introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel
your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's
no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today i want to plow into all of this i'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or
books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com i
don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've
got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well
info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're
coming back against us so we need your support we've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the
world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you
the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as
focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now
it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com this fourth of july is special
everybody can see it they can feel it the globalists are attempting to kill a worldwide awakening
to their tyranny and america yet again is at the heart of the resistance the globalist that's why
this fourth of july i'm asking all of our great supporters to think about info wars now more
than ever and what would the world be like if info wars wasn't there resisting the globalist
what would have happened if you hadn't supported info wars we would not be having the victories
we have today so yes a lot of good things are happening but the enemy is striking back so please
think about info wars and funding our operation while you get great products at the same time
on this fourth of july that's so historic we have record sales going on right now
free shipping on hundreds of different items more than 20 items are 50 off like brain force plus
x2 is 40 off knockout sleep aid 1776 silver bullets 995 little silver and free shipping you
can't beat that this fourth of july is special and our sales are special to match it in four store
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
you're listening to the antidote for fake news it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show joel gilbert in los angeles coming to you right from the
left coast we're talking to from front page mag dot com front page magazine from the david
horowitz freedom center uh daniel greenfield the brilliant writer so many great articles every day
we're going through some of his recent pieces this next one is called sex lies in the deep state
what the affairs of the deep state tell us about now daniel we've got alleged affairs like
president trump and prostitutes in moscow we have alleged affair of uh stormy daniels and
president trump and then we've got actual affairs like uh peter struck and lisa page
first of all is this a personal relationship or political affair and what does this mean for the
deep state interesting thing is that it's both it's a political affair and it's a personal
affair we just saw shazak's testimony um that he gave but there's another level to it i mean uh
congressman leigh gomer challenged him on the whole you were cheating on your wife thing and
but at the same time he's being investigated for effectively cheating on the state cheating on the
fbi cheating on the government the thing is he was doing both at the same time and that's the very
interesting angle that we actually saw so assistant direct assistant fbi director mckay who was a
close clinton ally actually used lisa page the guy that shazak was sleeping with as a liaison to
bypass the change of command but the level of the various um tiers of the fbi in order to actually
get information directly from shazak about the investigation now when shazak testified he was
very self-righteous he said we have all these multiple tiers all these people would be watching
they would not allow me to do something like this but the reality is because of his personal
affair he was actually able to get past a lot of these tiers and report directly to mckay using the
woman he was having an affair with and this is an example of how the two things inter await they
combine together um the adultery the personal adultery is also a political adultery these people
are not just cheating on their wives they're also cheating on america well another interesting
affair it's not an adulterous affair but it's uh bruce and nelly or some information just came
out that peter strozik admitted that it was bruce or of the doj number four who brought
information from fusion gps through his wife uh nelly or by the way i went to high school with
bruce or i know bruce since i'm six years old and uh it was really a shock to see him involved in
this kind of uh treason against the united states that's the high school photo i pulled uh how does
bruce and nelly or their political affair or their personal relationship turning into a
political affair to undermine the united states it's a very interesting situation because when
you look at foreign intelligence agencies one of the things they do is they go after the spouses
the spouses are a link that's what fusion gps the hurry campaign the deep state was doing in this case
they were using the spouses and the mistresses to route money to um engage in political influence so
fusion gps hired bruce's wife and that delivered money into the family so you had a doj official
a top doj official being bribed by the clinton campaign through multiple layers of separation
and without this investigation we wouldn't even know this and it's it's just the tip of the iceberg
but you see this with um the two affairs that are mentioned in my article um james wolf and
alley wadkins who was a new york times report currently is a new york times reporter um we see
this with the oars we see this with a variety of cases here where they actually are using the spouse
because the spouse isn't working for the government or the spouse is working for the government she's
working at a low level of responsibility or she's outside the government entirely and so you can use
her you can use her to get the key government officials in order to get them to do what you want
in order to relay information back and forth and this is a very disturbing trend because this is
something that foreign intelligence agencies normally do and here you have this conglomeration
the clinton campaign um figures in the um media elsewhere who are actually operating like a foreign
intelligence agency on american soil okay let's take a quick call from uh dean and niagra falls
you had a question about peter struck go ahead for daniel greenfield
okay dean are you there
okay we're going to move on to the next article it's called uh the democrat party fourth of july
statement america sucks uh thomas peres wrote as we celebrate our nation's independence we recognize
that america's promise remains out of reach women health care lgbtq people of color disabilities
inequality injustice everywhere we look we're under our fundamental values are under attack
daniel help us out why do democrats hate america well think about the democrats are the
left what's their whole basis for taking power if america's great we need them who needs this
revolution of theirs to justify revolution you have to say everything is horrible everything
is bad things are miserable we need to overthrow this murderous system that is just starving
babies to death on the border and replace it with us so that's their whole concept it's the
whole worldview they have to say that america is terrible if they admit that things are good
nobody needs them anymore so this is what the left always does the left says that things are absolutely
terrible when we're not in power of course when they're in power things are really great
just ask the cubans or the venezuelans yeah well they look they compare america to this
perfect socialist utopia they say it doesn't hold up so we have to tear it down and start over
whereas i think most normal americans normal people look at the rest of the world and we say well
america has the opportunity the freedom of religion uh as long as the police state isn't
isn't trying to tear us down uh and we see america in a completely different different light uh when
do you think it changed and how do you think it changed if the democrat party became so radicalized
that they're now calling for literally open revolution well you know back in the day the
democrats stood for a lot of the things the republicans stand now always officially um this
they were the states rights party back in the day then they were taken over by the left and there
was a huge shift when that happened uh the democrats used to be a kind of a farmers party
used to be a party of um people who had been overlooked um that's the image they still want
but in practice what happened was that they were taken over by powerful left wing elites
particularly in urban areas um these elites disguised the takeover by enlisting minorities
they turned they created political plantations for black people for various other minority groups
and that way they could still claim to represent the oppressed but in practice what they did was
represent a small political interest class um this class has its own political agendas it has its own
financial agendas it's transnational it doesn't believe in borders it doesn't believe in states it
doesn't believe in nations for that matter um and they disguised this transition under the
guise of civil rights under the guise of we're fighting for the oppressed but in practice they
become the oppressors well you're you're kind of echoing some of the points in my films that
the radicals in the 60s were calling for open revolution uh they bombed police stations
bombed government buildings went to jail it was so evil nobody followed them
and when they came out of the underground in the early 80s they taught the young radicals
like barack obama don't tell people about your marxism keep it to yourself and take power and
then you'll throw everyone under the bus uh at a later stage but now it seems that they're openly
calling uh for the open revolution as they did back in the 60s uh let's go ahead i think we do
have dean back on the line from uh texas go ahead dean hey joe how you doing bud i uh
all right i want to appreciate the work that you do man let me tell you it's about research
anyways well thank you go ahead with the question uh the uh peter struck uh testimony
yesterday now we obviously see the hand that the the left is doing whether be interrupting uh
the congressman and their question and stuff like that but uh okay where do we go forward from this
now um okay thank you for the call uh daniel greenfield you saw the spectacle uh on the
peter struck testimony you saw the democrats cheering offering him a purple heart uh what
are the dynamics that you saw going on and what's next for either the russia investigation or the
spy gate investigation well congress has a limited amount of power especially with republican
readership on the hands of paul ryan so what they can do is ask questions they can sell a
peanut documents and though it's going to be storm along by the doj which is what we're seeing
and they can keep the focus on it but in practice they have only so much power their greatest thing
that congress can do is actually extract information um the real power is in the hands of the doj
unfortunately and the doj is currently being run by people who have absolutely no interest in
further uncovering the investigation uh president trump has a great deal of power to declassify
information he hasn't really properly unleashed it yet in part because the infrastructure is so
basically flawed but as we continue unrolling this investigation we're constantly learning new
and important things and it's a process it's a process that makes people very understandably
impatient because ultimately it's a lawyerism you're getting you're getting new facts you're
pulling out more documents you're getting more testimony you're getting more pieces of the
puzzle put together and it's a slow going process but at the same time the things we're discussing
on the show the things we just discussed in these segments came out of this investigation we found
that about all these connections within the doj in order to clean up the doj we need to know more
about this we need to know who's contaminated within the doj within the fbi we need to know who's
taken money from clinton allies and we need to know that so we can actually clean house and
rebuild an organization that's actually going to be able to press charges okay well uh i sure
appreciate your time daniel greenfield from front page magazine be sure to check out his articles
almost every day you'll find something brilliant and informative at front page mag dot com uh
everyone uh keep your eyes on the ball uh keep your eyes on everything this has been a great show
right from the left coast i'm joel gilbert i'll see you next week for the fourth hour on friday
on alex joneshow
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition
to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half
ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the
incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small
spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple
ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative
with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the
spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars
life dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
